---

title: Electronic user interface for electronic mixing of water for residential faucets
abstract: A water delivery system is disclosed. The water delivery system may have an electronic user interface. The electronic user interface may be a portable device. The electronic user interface may include inputs to select water temperature, water flow rates, water flow patterns, and/or task based presets. A mixing valve for use with either manual faucets or electronic faucets is disclosed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09285807&OS=09285807&RS=09285807
owner: Delta Faucet Company
number: 09285807
owner_city: Indianapolis
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120423
---
This application is a divisional patent application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 737 727 filed Apr. 19 2007 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 162 236 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 794 229 filed Apr. 20 2006 the disclosures of which are expressly incorporated by reference herein.

The present invention relates generally to water delivery systems such as faucets and more particularly to faucets and the operation of faucets including user inputs for faucets.

Faucets are generally controlled by either a single handle which utilizes a mixing valve to proportion the flow of hot and cold water to a delivery spout or dual handles which utilize two individual valves to control the flow of hot and cold water. Typically a user operates either the single handle or the two handles to regulate the flow of hot and cold water and hence both the flow rate and the temperature of the mixed water. Additionally discrete systems are also known which provide instant hot and instant warm water. Further the hands free activation of faucets is known.

In an exemplary embodiment of the present disclosure an apparatus for controlling the provision of water from a source of cold water and a source of hot water is provided. The apparatus comprising an elongated curved spout having a first fluid conduit in fluid communication with a spray outlet and a second fluid conduit in fluid communication with a stream outlet a valve in fluid communication with the source of cold water and the source of hot water and in fluid communication with the first fluid conduit and the second fluid conduit of the spout a controller operably coupled to the valve and configured to control an operation of the valve the controller including a receiver and a remote user interface including a transmitter and a plurality of user inputs the remote user interface providing a wireless indication to the controller of a state of the plurality of user inputs. The valve being positioned in at least a first position wherein the valve prevents water from entering the first fluid conduit and the second fluid conduit of the spout and a second position wherein the valve permits water to enter at least one of the first fluid conduit and the second fluid conduit of the spout.

In a further exemplary embodiment of the present disclosure an apparatus for controlling the provision of water from a source of cold water and a source of hot water above a sink deck is provided. The apparatus comprising a mixing valve in fluid communication with the source of cold water and the source of hot water the mixing valve being located beneath the sink deck a diverter valve located beneath the sink deck in fluid communication with an outlet of the mixing valve the diverter valve having a first outlet and a second outlet an electronic user interface located above the sink deck a spout including a first fluid conduit in fluid communication with the first outlet of the diverter valve and with a spray outlet of the spout and a second fluid conduit in fluid communication with the second outlet of the diverter valve and with a stream outlet of the spout and a controller operably coupled to the electronic user interface and to the mixing valve.

In still a further exemplary embodiment of the present disclosure an apparatus for controlling the provision of water from a source of cold water and a source of hot water is provided. The apparatus comprising a mixing valve in fluid communication with the source of cold water and the source of hot water a spout in fluid communication with an outlet of the mixing valve an electronic user interface including an electronic joystick moveable to define a selected temperature and a selected flow rate and a controller operably coupled to the electronic user interface and to the mixing valve.

In still yet a further exemplary embodiment of the present disclosure an apparatus for controlling the provision of water from a source of cold water and a source of hot water above a sink deck is provided. The apparatus comprising a mixing valve in fluid communication with the source of cold water and the source of hot water the mixing valve being located beneath the sink deck an electronic user interface located above the sink deck a spout in fluid communication with an outlet of the mixing valve and a controller operably coupled to the electronic user interface and to the mixing valve. The electronic user interface including a first touch slider user input for setting water temperature and a second touch slider user input for setting flow rate and a plurality of preset tasks inputs.

In yet another exemplary embodiment of the present disclosure a mixing valve for connection to a source of hot water to a source of cold water and to a water delivery device is provided. The mixing valve comprising a body having a first inlet adapted to be coupled to the source of cold water a second inlet adapted to be coupled to the source of hot water an outlet adapted to be coupled to the water delivery device and a moveable valve member having a fluid conduit. The moveable valve member being positionable in a first position wherein the first inlet and the second inlet are in fluid communication with the outlet in a low flow configuration and in a second position wherein the first inlet and the second inlet are in fluid communication with the outlet in a high flow configuration. The temperature of water provided to the outlet being adjustable in both the low flow configuration and the high flow configuration by moving the moveable valve member.

In yet still another exemplary embodiment of the present disclosure a mixing valve for connection to a source of hot water to a source of cold water and to a water delivery device is provided. The mixing valve comprising a valve body having a first opening in fluid communication with the source of hot water a second opening in fluid communication with the source of cold water and an outlet in fluid communication with the water delivery device a first valve member having a first opening positionable in fluid communication with the first opening of the valve body and a second opening positionable in fluid communication with the second opening of the valve body the first valve member being rotatable relative to the valve body and a second valve member having a fluid conduit positionable in fluid communication with the first opening and the second opening of the first valve member the second valve member being translatable relative to the first valve member. A rotation of the first valve member relative to the second valve member controlling a temperature of the water provided to the outlet and a translation of the second valve member relative to the first valve member controlling a flow rate of the water provided to the outlet.

In still a further exemplary embodiment of the present disclosure a mixing valve for connection to a source of hot water to a source of cold water and to a water delivery device is provided. The mixing valve comprising a valve body having a first opening in fluid communication with the source of hot water a second opening in fluid communication with the source of cold water and an outlet in fluid communication with the water delivery device a first moveable valve member in fluid communication with the first opening the second opening and the outlet a second moveable valve member in fluid communication with the first opening the second opening and the outlet through the first moveable valve member. The regulation of the temperature and flow rate of the water provided to the outlet being independently controlled by the movement of the first valve member and the second valve member respectively.

In another still exemplary embodiment of the present disclosure a method of configuring a valve coupled to a source of hot water a source of cold water and a water delivery device is provided. The valve having a moveable valve member having a first limit position and a second limit position. The valve also having an associated controller and temperature sensor positioned to measure the water provided by the valve. The method comprising the steps of through the controller moving the moveable valve member to the first limit position measuring the temperature of the water being provided by the valve a first measured temperature through the controller moving the moveable valve member to the second limit position measuring the temperature of the water being provided by the valve a second measured temperature and designating the limit position corresponding to the higher of the first measured temperature and the second measured as the hot input.

In still a further exemplary embodiment of the present invention a water delivery system for connection to at least one water inlet and a first water outlet the water delivery system comprising a housing including a first connector having a first shape and a second connector having a second shape differing from the first shape a valve positioned within the housing and in fluid communication with a first port of the first connector and a second port of the second connector a first fluid conduit adapted to be coupled to the at least one water inlet and having a first end configured to be coupled to the first port of the first connector the first end including a body portion having a third shape being configured to cooperate with the first shape of the first connector of the housing to permit the first fluid conduit to be coupled to the first port such that the first fluid conduit is in fluid communication with the valve the third shape being configured to not cooperate with the second shape of the second connector of the housing such that the first fluid conduit is prevented from being coupled to the second connector and a second fluid conduit adapted to be coupled to the at least one water outlet and having a first end configured to be coupled to the second port of the second connector the first end including a body portion having a fourth shape being configured to cooperate with the second shape of the second port of the second connector to permit the second fluid conduit to be coupled to the second port such that the second fluid conduit is in fluid communication with the valve the fourth shape being configured to not cooperate with the first shape of the first connector of the housing such that the second fluid conduit is prevented from being coupled to the first connector.

Additional features and advantages of the present invention will become apparent to those skilled in the art upon consideration of the following detailed description of illustrative embodiments exemplifying the best mode of carrying out the invention as presently perceived.

The embodiments of the invention described herein are not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed. Rather the embodiments selected for description have been chosen to enable one skilled in the art to practice the invention. Although the disclosure is described in connection with water it should be understood that additional types of fluids may be used.

Referring to a diagrammatic representation of a water delivery system is shown. Water delivery system includes an upper portion which is accessible to a user form above a sink deck and a lower portion which is generally inaccessible to a user from above sink deck . In one embodiment upper portion and lower portion are both modular such that various components may be added to or subtracted from either upper portion and lower portion .

Lower portion includes a hot water inlet port connected to a hot water supply and a cold water inlet port connected to a cold water supply . Lower portion includes internal water conduits which permit fluid entering hot water inlet port to ultimately mix with fluid entering cold water inlet port . In one embodiment lower portion includes a valve which controls the amount of fluid from hot water supply and the amount of fluid from cold water supply that are mixed together. As explained herein the amount of fluid mixed together from hot water supply and cold water supply is determined based on one or more user inputs such as desired fluid temperature desired fluid flow rate desired fluid volume various task based inputs such as vegetable washing filling pots or glasses rinsing plates and or washing hands various recognized presentments such as vegetables to wash plates to wash hands to wash or other suitable presentments and or combinations thereof. Presentments correspond to the placement of an item proximate to a delivery end of the spout. As such it is similar to hands free operation except that controller is able to distinguish between item types.

In one embodiment the valve is a single electronically controlled mixing valve which is in fluid communication with both hot water supply and cold water supply . Exemplary electronically controlled mixing valves are described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 109 281 filed Apr. 19 2005 titled ELECTRONIC PROPORTIONING VALVE and U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 758 373 filed Jan. 12 2006 titled ELECTRONIC MIXING VALVE the disclosures of which are expressly incorporated by reference herein. In one embodiment valve is a mixing valve such as mixing valve illustrated in . In another embodiment valve includes multiple valves such as one for the hot input and the one for the cold input.

In one embodiment a diverter valve such as diverter valve see controls when water from the mixing valve is provided to the user. Diverter valve may have three settings off path A corresponding to an internal waterway that is in communication with a stream aerator to provide a stream configuration from spout and path B corresponding to an internal waterway that is in communication with a spray aerator to provide a spray configuration from spout . Further diverter valve may be used to regulate a flow rate of water delivery system . In a metering example diverter valve may provide a first gross flow rate until the desired quantity is approached then provide a second fine flow rate being less than the gross flow rate until the desired quantity is achieved. The same metering example may be achieved with mixing valve as well.

Lower portion further includes a controller . Controller includes software that controls the operation of the water delivery system . In one embodiment controller receives inputs from various user input devices and or sensors and provides control signals for various components such as valve .

A fluid conduit is shown connecting upper portion and lower portion . Fluid conduit is in fluid communication with a first output of valve through a port of lower portion . In one embodiment valve includes a second output which is in fluid communication with upper portion through a port and a second fluid conduit .

Upper portion includes a spout which is in fluid communication with fluid conduit . Upper portion may further include an accessory A which is in fluid communication with fluid conduit and or an accessory B which is in fluid communication with fluid conduit . Exemplary accessories include a container filling device and a coffee pot.

Upper portion may further include a user input device . User input device may be attached to spout and or accessory A or B. User input device in one embodiment includes a touch sensor whereby a user of water delivery system may specify one or more parameters of the water to be delivered such as temperature pressure quantity and or flow pattern characteristics. In one embodiment user input device includes task inputs temperature slider controls and flow rate slider controls. In another embodiment user input device includes one or more mechanical inputs such as buttons dials and or handles.

Upper portion may further include one or more sensors . Sensors may be used to monitor characteristics of the water such as temperature dispensed water volume water quality and flow rate or environmental characteristics such as a presentment the presence of an infrared emitting or reflecting body a tap sensor mode selections such as units and other sensors. In one embodiment sensors may be included in lower portion . In one embodiment upper portion includes a display which provides an indication to the user of water characteristics such as temperature dispensed water volume water quality and flow rate or environmental characteristics such as a presentment the presence of an infrared emitting or reflecting body a tap sensor and mode selections such as units.

Described herein are various spouts controllers user input devices and other components of a water delivery system. It should be assumed that the functionality of spout controller user input device and water delivery system apply to each of the disclosed spouts controllers user input devices and other components of water delivery system and that the various features of each spout controller and other components of a water delivery system may be included as apart of any other spout controller user input device or water delivery system.

Referring to an exemplary lower portion is shown. Referring to lower portion includes an electronic mixing valve in fluid communication with two input waterways and and an output waterway . Mixing valve and waterways and are contained within a housing which includes a first port A a second port A and a third port B. Ports A C are in fluid communication with internal waterways and respectively. An external fluid conduit A is coupled to first port A and is in fluid communication with a supply of hot water . An external fluid conduit B is coupled to second port A and is in fluid communication with a supply of cold water . In one embodiment the hot supply and the cold supply are plumbing connections provided below the sink deck. An external fluid conduit C is coupled to third port B and is in fluid communication with spout .

Lower portion further includes a controller . Controller includes a processor and associated memory . In one embodiment memory includes software that is executed by processor in performing the functionality described herein. Processor receives power from a regulator circuit which is coupled to an external power supply . In the illustrated embodiment regulator circuit also includes a backup battery for use in the case of power interruption from power supply . In one embodiment memory is provided on board microprocessor . In one embodiment memory is removable.

Controller adjusts the parameters of electronic proportional valve through a drive circuit which drives one or more motors associated with valve such as motors and shown in . Controller receives temperature and flow settings from one or more user input devices and sets the parameters of valve to reflect the temperature and flow settings. The arrangement shown in is an open loop arrangement because the output of valve is not monitored to ensure that the requested temperature and flow are being provided to spout .

Referring to an example of a closed loop arrangement of lower portion is shown. As shown in a sensor is positioned in coupled to or otherwise monitors internal waterway . Sensor monitors the temperature of the water in internal waterway and the flow rate of water in internal waterway . In one embodiment sensor is comprised of multiple sensors such as a first sensor to measure the temperature of the water and a second sensor to measure the flow rate of the water. The closed loop arrangement permits controller to monitor the output of valve and to prevent the temperature of the water becoming too high that it scalds a user. As such the closed loop arrangement permits the inclusion of safe hot water delivery option. The closed loop arrangement also provides feedback to controller which permits the delivery of the desired temperature and the desired flow rate regardless of variations in the temperatures and or pressures of hot supply and cold supply .

Additional sensor may provide input to controller . Exemplary sensors include position sensors on valve . The position sensors may be associated with a motor associated with valve a gear associated with valve and or plates associated with valve . Based on the value of the position sensors controller is able to know the temperature and or flow rate valve is currently set for.

Controller still receives temperature and flow settings from one or more user input devices and sets the parameters of valve to reflect the temperature and flow settings. In user input device also includes one or more preset controls such as hot only cold only and task based inputs. In the illustrated embodiment the temperature flow and selection of preset controls is communicated from user input device to controller over a serial connection.

In the connection between user input device and controller is shown separate from the connection between spout and lower portion . It should be understood that user input device may communicate with controller either wirelessly or over a wired connection. In a wired configuration an electrical cable such as a serial connection may connect user input device to controller through the same opening see in sink deck as the water conduits to the spout. In one embodiment a connector is coupled to sink deck and user input device and controller each are coupled to the connector. An exemplary connector is connector shown in . In one embodiment user input device is connected to controller through a wired connection that passes through a separate hole in the sink deck . Referring to user interface devices and are shown mounted to a pedestal that passes through a separate hole in the sink deck .

Referring to a second closed loop arrangement of lower portion is shown. This closed loop arrangement is generally the same as the closed loop arrangement shown in except for the addition of touch and infrared controls on user input device . Controller responds to a tap of a touch sensor or the detection of an object by an infrared sensor to start the delivery of water. Controller further responds to a subsequent tap of a touch sensor or the non detection of an object by an infrared sensor or passage of time to suspend the delivery of water.

Referring to the closed loop arrangement of is shown along with the inclusion of filtered water system . Filtered water system includes a filter an input waterway D to filter and an outlet waterway E to filter . Inlet waterway D is coupled to a port D of housing which is in fluid communication with an internal waterway that is in fluid communication with the cold water supply through internal water . Outlet waterway E is coupled to a port C of housing which is in fluid communication with an internal waterway . Internal waterway is in fluid communication with an external waterway F through a port F. Waterway F is in fluid communication with spout . Spout in one embodiment includes a valve the user may actuate to dispense cold filtered water. In one embodiment filtered water is provided through a second separate spout. The second spout may include any of the activation means disclosed herein. In one embodiment the filtered water system includes a refrigeration tank to provided chilled water and a heating tank to provide instant warm or instant hot water.

Referring to the closed loop arrangement of is shown along with an Instant Hot module . Exemplary Instant Hot modules are described herein. Instant Hot module in one embodiment is connected to a separate spout spaced apart from spout through a waterway G. Spout may include any of the interface features disclosed herein including task inputs and metering inputs. Instant hot module in one embodiment is connected to spout through waterway F or another waterway internal to spout and not in fluid communication with waterway F. Instant Hot module in one embodiment is in fluid communication with filter through a waterway A such that the water provided by spout is filtered water. Instant Hot module in one embodiment is in fluid communication with filter through a waterway B.

Referring to another exemplary arrangement of components is provided. As mentioned above the supply of hot water and the supply of cold water may be the plumbing connections under the sink deck. The supply of cold water generally is plumbed from the water line entering the facility such as the house and may pass through other components prior to reaching the plumbing connection such as a water softener. The supply of hot water generally is plumbed to a central water heater which heats water provided from the water line to an elevated temperature. In one embodiment central water heater has a storage tank holding hot water. Central water heater is remote from sink deck and is interposed between plumbing connection and water line .

As discussed herein the supply of hot water and the supply of cold water are coupled to an electronic proportioning valve or mixing valve . Valve provides mixed water to an electronic diverter the proportion of hot and cold water and the flow rate of water provided to electronic diverter is controlled by valve through controller as discussed herein. In one embodiment electronic diverter is a two way disk valve. In one embodiment electronic diverter is a solenoid valve.

Electronic diverter is coupled to spout through two waterways one in fluid communication with a spray outlet and one in fluid communication with an aerated stream outlet. In the illustrated embodiment electronic diverter is positioned below the sink deck. In one embodiment electronic diverter is positioned above the sink deck such as inside spout or in a pull out portion of spout .

In one embodiment an in line heater is in fluid communication with the supply of hot water and valve . Exemplary in line heaters include a heating element positioned within a waterway or a small water tank with a heating element. In line heater in one embodiment provides instant warm water to valve . An exemplary temperature for instant warm water is about 120 F. As is known it often takes a period of time before hot water from central water heater to reach valve . In line heater in one embodiment provides instant hot water to valve . An exemplary temperature for instant hot water is about 120 F. about 150 F. at least about 120 F. or in the range of about 120 F. to about 150 F. In one embodiment an instant hot feature is added to a lavatory faucet and the temperature is about 120 F. The operation of in line heater is controlled by controller .

In one embodiment as illustrated in in line heater is used by controller to maintain the output temperatures to spout at the desired temperature. Depending on hot water usage in the house after a task is started the central water may not be able to provide sufficient amounts of hot water thereby resulting in the output temperature dropping. For small drops in the output temperature the proportion of hot water and cold water passing through valve may be adjusted. In one embodiment controller utilizes in line heater to initially heat the water as well. In one example wherein the water has been shut off for an extended period of time the water in the hot water plumbing returns to ambient temperature and in line heater boosts the temperature of the water passing by it until hot water reaches valve from the central water heater . In one embodiment controller monitors the output temperature of the water leaving valve with a sensor and adjusts in line heater accordingly. In one embodiment controller monitors the temperature of the water in the hot water plumbing prior to in line heater with a sensor and adjust in line heater accordingly. In one embodiment controller monitors the temperature of the water in the hot water plumbing after in line heater and prior to valve with a sensor and adjust in line heater accordingly. In one embodiment in line heater may raise the temperature of the water from about 20 to about 30 degrees at a flow rate of about one gallon per minute. In one example the water temperature is raised about 30 F. when the water is flowing at about 0.5 gallons per minute and in line heater is using 110 VAC. In one example the water temperature is raised about 30 F. when the water is flowing at about 2 to 3 gallons per minute and in line heater is using 230 VAC. The use of valve and in line heater may be used in other applications as well including a side spray and a shower. In one embodiment controller is able to guarantee a given temperature by setting a maximum flow rate based on the characteristics of in line heater . Controller may control or limit the flow rate to achieve the appropriate temperature rise. For 110 VAC a temperature rise of 30 F may be achieved for a flow rate of about 1.0 gpm. For higher temperature rises the flow rate may be further reduced.

Referring to an exemplary method is shown. The output temperature reaches the desired temperature as represented by block . Sensor measures the temperature of the output water as represented by block . If the temperature of the output water is about equal to the desired temperature as selected through an user input then controller prepares to take the next measurement of the output temperature as represented by blocks and . In one example the preparation for the next measurement includes waiting until a preset timer has expired. If the temperature of the output water is less than the desired temperature then controller activates in line heater and prepares for the next measurement as represented by blocks and . The in line heater is used to maintain the output temperature at a desired temperature even if the central water heater is unable to do so.

Referring to electronic diverter valve is replaced by electronic diverter which is a four way diverter valve. In one embodiment electronic diverter is a two way disk valve. In one embodiment electronic diverter is a solenoid valve.

Electronic diverter is coupled to spout through two waterways one in fluid communication with a spray outlet and one in fluid communication with an aerated stream outlet. In the illustrated embodiment electronic diverter is positioned below the sink deck. In one embodiment electronic diverter is positioned above the sink deck such as inside spout or in a pull out portion of spout . Further electronic diverter has a third outlet coupled to a pot filler . Exemplary pot fillers are described herein. Electronic diverter also has a fourth outlet in fluid communication with a filter . Filter is in fluid communication with a second spout spaced apart from spout . in one embodiment filter is coupled to spout and provides filtered water to spout in response to a filtered water task input being selected.

Referring to between filter and spout a second electronic diverter is inserted. A first output from electronic diverter is coupled to an instant cold unit . A second output from electronic diverter is coupled to an instant hot unit . Both instant unit and instant hot unit include a respective check valve and between the respective unit and and spout to prevent backflow into the other unit.

Referring to an exemplary embodiment of the arrangement in is shown. Valve is contained in a housing which has openings for the two inlets to hot supply and cold supply to extend and an opening for the outlet to extend. In one embodiment the two inlets and or outlet include a check valve to prevent the backflow of water. Electronic diverter is enclosed in a housing which has openings for the two outlets to spout to extend and an opening for the inlet from the outlet of valve to extend. In one embodiment the two outlets and or inlet include a check valve to prevent the backflow of water. In one embodiment the outlet of housing and the inlet of housing are connected through a quick connect fitting. As such no tools are required to connect electronic diverter valve to valve . Referring to the exemplary embodiment of is shown along with an in line heater unit housed in housing .

Referring to an exemplary embodiment of the arrangement in is shown. Electronic diverter has been replaced electronic diverter . Electronic diverter is a four way diverter valve. As shown in electronic diverter is coupled to a filter unit two lines to spout one to an aerated stream outlet and one to a spray outlet and one line to a pot filler . Electronic diverter is positioned within a housing . Filter unit includes a base portion and a removable filter . An outlet of filter unit is in fluid communication with a filtered water spout .

Referring to an exemplary embodiment of the arrangement in is shown. As shown in a two way diverter housed in housing is coupled to an outlet of filter unit . A first outlet of electronic diverter valve is coupled to an instant cold unit housed in housing . Instant cold unit includes a tank to hold water and a cooling element to cool the water in tank . A second outlet of electronic diverter valve is coupled to an instant hot unit housed in housing . Instant hot unit includes a tank to hold water and a heating element to heat the water in tank .

In one embodiment in line heater is replaced with an instant hot water unit as shown in . Further an electronic diverter valve is positioned between hot water unit and valve . Electronic diverter valve includes two inputs one connected to hot water unit and one to hot water supply and an output connected to valve . Hot water unit contains sufficient hot water to provide a desired temperature until hot water is received from central water heater . In one embodiment a central water heater is not used and hot water reservoir provides all of the hot water needed for spout .

Referring to an embodiment of lower portion is shown. As discussed in connection with lower portion includes a housing which houses a valve and a controller . Lower portion includes internal waterways connecting the valve with inlet ports A A and a plurality of water outlets B and D. The embodiment shown in does not illustrate ports E and F.

Referring to inlet ports A and A are located in a connector A having a recess A having a first profile A. A water inlet connector A includes a body portion A having a profile A which matches profile A of water inlet. Water inlet connector A further includes a first fluid conduit A which is coupled to a hot water supply such as through a screw on coupling and a second fluid conduit B which is coupled to a cold water supply such as through a screw on coupling. First fluid conduit A and second fluid conduit B are coupled to internal waterways and by advancing body portion A into recess A of connector A.

Referring back to a water outlet connector B is shown. Water outlet connector B includes port B which is in fluid communication with internal passageway from valve and is to be coupled to a device such as spout which provides water to a user. Water outlet connector B includes a recess B having a profile B. A water outlet connector B is shown in and includes a body portion B having a profile B which matches profile B of water outlet connector B. Water outlet connector B further includes a fluid conduit B which is to be coupled to a device for providing water such as spout .

Also shown in is an instant hot water connector C. Instant hot water connector C includes a port C which is in fluid communication with an internal passageway not shown from the valve and is to be coupled to a device providing instant hot water to a user. One example of such a device is one of the spouts such as spout illustrated herein or a stand alone dispenser. Instant hot water connector C includes a recess C having a profile C. An instant hot water connector C includes a body portion C having a profile C which matches profile C of instant hot water connector C. Instant hot water connector C further includes a fluid conduit B which is to be coupled to an outlet for providing hot water.

Further shown in is a filtered cold water connector D. Filtered cold water connector D includes a port D which is in fluid communication with internal passageway and is to be coupled to a device providing filtered cold water to a user. One example of such a device is one of the spouts illustrated herein such as spout . In one embodiment lower portion includes a filter such that the water exiting through filtered cold water connector D is already filtered. In another embodiment as illustrated in lower portion does not include a filter and the water exiting through filtered cold water connector D is not filtered.

Filtered cold water connector D includes a recess D having a profile D. A filtered cold water connector D includes a body portion D having a profile D which matches profile D of filtered cold water connector D. Filtered cold water connector D further includes a fluid conduit which is to be coupled to an outlet for providing filtered cold water.

In one embodiment the fluid conduits of the various outlet connectors water outlet connector B filtered cold water connector D and instant hot water connector C are feed through a connector such as connector from above the sink deck and are coupled to the respective outlet connectors B D C of lower portion . In another embodiment the fluid conduits of the various outlet connectors B D C are coupled to respective fluid conduits of a connector such as connector . Outlet devices may then be coupled to various outlet connectors A and B of connector . As such various spouts and or accessories requiring fluid from one of water outlet connector B filtered cold water connector D and instant hot water connector C may simply be connected to connector from above sink deck . In one embodiment an accessory or spout communicates to controller its identity and or its settings and modes of operation when coupled to connectors A and B.

The profiles of the respective inlet and outlet connectors A D of lower portion are chosen such that the various water connectors A D may be coupled to lower portion simply by matching profiles A D of connectors A D to the profiles A D of the respective inlet and outlet connectors A D of lower portion . Further each connector A D and its respective connector A D have a unique matching color to provide an additional visual cue to the installer of which connector should be associated with each connector . In one embodiment the connectors A D and the respective connectors A D are matched only by color. In another embodiment the connectors A D and the respective connectors A D are matched only by profile shape.

In one embodiment the ports A E include the capability to detect when a connector has been connected thereto. The detection may be performed by monitoring a resistive value associated with an electrical connection of the respective port. This connection detection is communicated to controller .

Returning to lower portion includes an access panel . Generally proximate to access panel is a status light which is illuminated when power is provided to lower portion . In one embodiment an instructor chip of controller is accessible by removing access panel . The instructor chip may be a flash memory card which includes the software required to control valve and interface with the plurality of devices such as user input device of upper portion . As new devices are introduced with additional functionally the instructor chip needs to be upgraded.

In one embodiment controller is connected to a wireless network in the home. Exemplary wireless RF networks may include Bluetooth based networks Z wave based networks and Zigbee based networks. Assuming controller has access to remote networks such as the Internet through the home wireless network or directly controller may periodically check for software updates from a remote network device or simply receive updates from a remote network device. In one embodiment controller accesses a web page through the remote network and checks for updates to the current software being executed by controller and or downloads additional software such as for a new device associated with the water delivery system.

In one embodiment a computer accessible over the wireless network contains one or more recipes that require a metered quantity of fluid. A user may select the recipe either through a menu on user input device or the computer containing the recipe. In one example controller extracts an amount of fluid being provided by valve from the recipe and operates valve to provide the metered amount of fluid from spout or an accessory such as a pot filler. In another example the computer containing the recipe extracts an amount of fluid being provided by valve from the recipe and sends a request for the amount of fluid to controller which operates valve to provide the metered amount of fluid from spout or an accessory such as a pot filler.

In one embodiment the new devices are packaged with a replacement instructor chip which includes the prior functionality of the previous instructor chip along with the additional functionality required for the new device. The upgraded instructor chip is installed in the following manner. Access panel is removed. Access panel interacts with or is apart of a switch that turns off power to controller of lower portion when access panel is removed. The previous instructor chip is removed from lower portion and the upgraded instructor chip is installed in lower portion . Access panel is again coupled to the remainder of lower portion thereby restoring power to controller .

Returning to in one embodiment upper portion and lower portion include modular components. As explained above lower portion provides for easy expansion of various modules such as cold filtered water and instant hot water and connection to hot supply cold supply and spout . Further exemplary types of the modular aspects of water delivery system are illustrated in . It should be noted that these are merely examples and that additional modular aspects including further accessories may be used such as the accessories described herein.

Referring to an exemplary and potentially base faucet system is shown. Faucet system includes a spout a control module a water filter and wall mounting . Faucet system is packaged as a single system in packaging . Referring to a spout upgrade is shown. Spout upgrade may be a different style than spout or may include additional functionally such as an LCD display screen user input device infrared control or touch control. It should be noted that is some embodiments an LCD display screen a touch control or additional options are included in the base spout . Spout upgrade is packaged as a separate item in packaging . In one embodiment spout upgrade replaces the entire spout of the base system . In another embodiment spout upgrade replaces only a portion of spout of the base system such as a detectable head of spout .

Referring to various examples of spout upgrades are illustrated. First three different types of bases A B are illustrated. Various valve handles A C are illustrated for use with one or more bases A C. Handles A C use potentiometers to provide inputs to controller which in turn operates valve . Two types of standard spout modules A and B are shown for use with one or more of bases A C. A connector is shown for use with one or more of bases A C. In one embodiment connector is connector shown in . Connector is configured for use with the illustrated spouts A C. Spout B is illustratively configurable with one or more spout shafts A C and one or more spout heads A C.

Referring to another exemplary upgrade is shown. Upgrade includes a spout which functions similar to spout depicted in . Spout includes a tap sensor and a plurality of presents A and B. In one embodiment presents A and B correspond to one of task inputs user defined inputs cold only and hot only.

Upgrade further includes an elongated base supporting a pull out tool handle which is in fluid communication with lower portion such as through fluid conduit . Tool handle may be spaced apart from base similar to traditional spray tools to permit a user to utilize various tool heads A D on various articles such as the sink or food containers. Tool heads A D each include a respective coupling A D which may be individually coupled to tool handle or stored in one of tool receptacles A D in base .

Each of tool heads A D is designed for a given function. Tool head A is a sponge scrubber including a base portion . Base portion is coupled to tool handle and includes one or more internal waterways which deliver water to a sponge element . Base portion further includes a scraper .

Tool head B is a rotating glass cleaner including a base portion and a sponge portion . Base portion includes a first piece coupled to tool handle and a second piece rotatable relative to the first piece and coupled to sponge portion .

Tool head C is a scrapper including a base portion . Base portion is coupled to tool handle and includes one or more internal waterways which deliver water to water jets . Base portion further includes a scraper .

Tool head D is a rotating brush including a base portion . Base portion is coupled to tool handle and includes one or more internal waterways which deliver water to a rotating head portion having a plurality of brush bristles.

Each of tool heads A D requires various characteristics of the fluid provided to it. Tool head A requires a lower flow rate of fluid than the other tool heads B D. Tool heads B D each require a higher flow rate of fluid to rotate heads B and D and to provide sufficient pressure to the water expelled by jets . In one embodiment the flow requirements are provided by controller .

Returning to a replacement filter is shown separately packaged in packaging . Referring to an instant hot water system is shown. In one embodiment instant hot system is a recirculation system. Exemplary recirculation systems are disclosed in U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 735 569 filed Nov. 11 2005 titled INTEGRATED BATHROOM ELECTRONIC SYSTEM the disclosure of which is expressly incorporated by reference herein. In one embodiment instant hot system includes a hot water tank under sink deck . In one embodiment instant hot system utilizes point of use heating such as a heating element.

In one embodiment an instant cold module is provided. The instant cold module includes a chilling elements. In one embodiment the chilling element includes a peltier thermoelectric device.

Referring to the modularity of the lower portion components shown in is shown. In order to install instant hot water system water filter is removed and instant hot water system is positioned on control module . Finally the water filter is positioned on instant hot water system . In one embodiment each module and interlocks together and makes the appropriate fluid and electrical connections without the use of tools.

Referring to the components of are shown illustratively as upper portion and lower portion . Lower portion and upper portion are coupled together through a coupler which includes a first coupler A coupled to a conduit of lower portion and a second coupler B coupled to a conduit of upper portion . First coupler A and second coupler B cooperate to couple upper portion and lower portion together.

Spout of upper portion includes a spout head B having a user input device integrated therewith. In one embodiment conduit includes a fluid conduit not shown to provide water to spout and an electrical cable not shown to provide electrical connection with user input device . In a similar fashion conduit could also include a fluid conduit not shown and an electrical cable not shown which couple to the fluid conduit of conduit and valve and electrical cable of conduit and controller .

Referring to lower portion is mounted to a wall with mounting . Lower portion is also coupled to the water supply hot is illustrated . Upper portion is positioned above sink deck with conduit extending through an opening see in sink deck . First coupler A and B are coupled together. Spout is secured to sink deck with a coupler which may be threaded onto a lower portion of spout .

Referring to in one embodiment a connector is provided which is to be coupled to sink deck and lower portion and upper portion are to be coupled thereto. Connector includes a base member which is received in an opening in sink deck . An external surface of base member is threaded. A spacer is threaded onto base member . Spacer includes an a flexible member which provides a friction fit with an internal surface of a body member . Body member as explained herein provides a base portion for upper portion onto which may be coupled various components such as a spout . In one embodiment spout is directly connected to spacer instead of body member .

Connector further includes a manifold nut which includes a lower flange and a circumferential recess . Connector further includes a gasket which is positioned adjacent flange portion of manifold nut and a lower nut and associated washer .

Connector is assembled to sink deck in the following manner. Manifold nut and spacer are threaded onto base and positioned as shown in . Gasket is positioned adjacent lower flange of manifold nut . This assembly is inserted into opening in sink deck . Lower nut and washer are threaded onto base member from below sink deck and hand tightened from below the sink deck . Manifold nut is then tightened with a wrench to fully secure the assembly to sink deck . Body member is placed over the top of spacer in direction and a coupler is received into recess of manifold nut through an opening in body member . In this manner body member is prevented from being raised in direction relative to sink deck .

Referring to body member includes an internal passageway . Internal passageway provides a conduit for one or more water lines not shown and one or more electrical lines not shown to pass from lower portion to components of upper portion such as spout or accessory A. Further a second internal passageway is provided in body member . Internal passageway intersects with a side wall of body member while internal passageway intersects with a top surface of body member . In one embodiment internal passageway provides a second connection point to body member for a water connection and or an electrical connection such as accessory B.

In one embodiment a second sink mount is provided such as location in . Referring to a pedestal is passed through a second opening in the sink deck. The pedestal supporting an electronic user interface.

Referring to a second connector is shown. Connector is assembled to deck as shown in . In one embodiment connector is coupled to deck in a similar manner as connector . Connector includes an upper surface having a recess formed therein. Connector also includes a first connector A for connecting to a spout or other device. Connector A includes in recess a first water connection port and a first electrical connection port . Water connection port is in fluid communication with valve through a fluid conduit such as fluid conduit . Electrical connection port is electrically coupled to controller and may include contacts for multiple isolated electrical lines such as power and ground lines data lines sensor lines.

A lower portion of a spout is shown in . Spout includes a reduced diameter portion which is received by recess of connector . Spout further includes a first water connection port and a first electrical connection port . First water connection port of spout is received by and coupled to first water connection port of connector . Fluid is then communicated through an internal waterway of spout and is discharged through an outlet see . First electrical connection port of spout is received by and coupled to first electrical connection port of connector .

Electrical connections are made between a user input device see and controller through the connection of first electrical connection port of connector and first electrical connection port of spout . Further one or more sensors may be connected to controller through the connection of first electrical connection of connector and first electrical connection of spout .

Connector further includes a removable cover which is received in a recess in a circumferential surface . Recess covers a second connector B for connecting to a spout or other device. Second connector B includes a water connection port and an electrical connection port . Water connection port is in fluid communication with valve through a fluid conduit such as fluid conduit . Electrical connection port is electrically coupled to controller and may include contacts for multiple isolated electrical lines such as power and ground lines data lines sensor lines.

Referring to cover may be removed to permit an accessory such as a pot filler to be coupled to connector . Accessory includes a flexible conduit which includes a fluid conduit not shown and an electrical cable not shown . The fluid conduit of flexible conduit is in fluid communication with a fluid connection port on an end of flexible conduit and with accessory . The electrical cable of accessory is electrically coupled to an electrical connection port on an end of flexible conduit and with accessory .

To couple accessory to connector cover is removed fluid connection port of flexible conduit is received in fluid connection port of recess and electrical connection port of flexible conduit is received in electrical connection port of recess . Further flexible conduit includes an enlarged diameter portion which is received by recess of connector .

In one embodiment a plurality of spouts and a plurality of accessories are available for use with lower portion through connection with connector . As such each of the plurality of spouts and the plurality of accessories includes a fluid connection port and an electrical connection port sized and configured to couple to and interact with one of the fluid connection ports and one of the electrical connection ports respectively of connector . By connecting with connector each of the plurality spouts and the plurality of accessories may be provided with fluid from valve . Further the user inputs if available and sensors if available are electrically coupled with controller and or receive electrical power from lower portion . It should be noted that in one embodiment the user inputs if available and sensors if available are wirelessly coupled to controller .

As discussed herein controller may be coupled to various sensors and or user inputs. Further based on these inputs controller may control the operation of valve and potentially features of various coupled devices such as spouts and or accessories. The following provides a description of various user input devices and sensors associated with a given spout or accessory. However it should be understood that the various user input devices and sensors may be used with a multitude of spouts and accessories and as such should not be limited to the illustrated embodiment.

Referring to a user input device may provided in a plurality of locations. Nine illustrated locations are shown mounted behind the sink A mounted in front of the sink B mounted on a side of the sink C mounted above the sink D a handheld device location E such as a personal data assistant at a remote location F integrated into a spout location G integrated into the counter around the sink H and mounted to a pedestal coupled to the sink deck through a hole in the sink deck . In one embodiment user input device communicates wirelessly with controller such as remote location or handheld device . In another embodiment user input device communicates with controller through a wired connection such as integrated into spout . Other locations may communicate with controller through either a wired connection or a wireless connection. In one embodiment any of the wireless connections disclosed herein may be an RF wireless connection.

Referring to an exemplary user input device is shown. User input device may be located at any of the locations A I depicted in . User input device includes a touch sensitive screen such as a plurality of capacitive sensors which detect when a user touches a portion of the screen. In one embodiment user input device is coupled to controller through a wired connection. In another embodiment user input device is coupled to controller through a wireless connection. In the wireless configuration user input device includes a transmitter not shown and if two way communication is desired a receiver not shown along with a controller not shown to control the operation thereof. An illustrative example is shown in as user input device . User input device includes an input such as dials buttons or touch screens a controller and a transmitter . User inputs received by input are interpreted by controller which generates signals to be sent by transmitter to controller .

A user simply touches screen in a location illustratively location corresponding to a desired temperature and a desired flow rate. The flow rate may be increased by touching a location lower than location in direction . The flow rate may be decreased by touching a location higher than location in direction . The temperature may be increased by touching a location further to the right than location in direction . The temperature may be decreased by touching a location further to the left than location in direction . The selected temperature and flow rate are communicated to controller which adjusts valve to provide the desired temperature and flow rate.

User input device includes an indicator which provides a visual cue to the user of the current temperature and flow rate of the water exiting spout . In one embodiment location is also marked on screen with a visual cue and indicator migrates towards location as the temperature and flow rate of the water exiting spout migrates towards the desired temperature and flow rate. User input device further includes a numeric indication of the current temperature of the water exiting spout . In one embodiment in order to provide numeric indicator and or indicator user input device includes a receiver which receives a wireless communication from controller indicating the temperature and or flow rate of water exiting spout .

In one embodiment wherein another user input device such as moveable remote control device a display not shown is provided which provides users and non users the ability to see at a glance current water characteristics such as temperature and flow rate. In one example the display has the same general appearance as user input device .

Referring to another exemplary user input device is shown. User input device may be located at any of the locations A I depicted in . User input device includes a touch sensitive screen such as a plurality of capacitive sensors which detect when a user touches a portion of the screen. In one embodiment user input device is coupled to controller through a wired connection. In another embodiment user input device is coupled to controller through a wireless connection. In the wireless configuration user input device includes a transmitter not shown and if two way communication is desired a receiver not shown along with a controller not shown to control the operation thereof.

A user simply touches screen in a location illustratively location corresponding to a desired temperature and a desired flow rate. The flow rate may be increased by touching a location lower than location in direction . The flow rate may be decreased by touching a location higher than location in direction . The temperature may be increased by touching a location further to the right than location in direction . The temperature may be decreased by touching a location further to the left than location in direction . The selected temperature and flow rate are communicated to controller which adjusts valve to provide the desired temperature and flow rate.

User input device includes an indicator which provides a visual cue to the user of the current temperature and flow rate of the water exiting spout . In one embodiment location is also marked on screen with a visual cue and indicator migrates towards location as the temperature and flow rate of the water exiting spout migrates towards the desired temperature and flow rate. User input device further includes a numeric indication of the current temperature of the water exiting spout .

A plurality of presets and are provided as part of user input device . Each of presets and includes an icon which represents a function associated with the respective preset. To activate a preset a user touches screen in a region corresponding to the icon. In one embodiment the presets are actuatable buttons or switches not touch activated. Presets illustratively control the flow pattern of the water exiting the spout. Icons A and B correspond to a stream configuration of the water exiting spout with icon A corresponding to a higher flow rate stream than icon B. Icons C and D correspond to a spray configuration of the water exiting spout with icon C corresponding to a higher flow rate spray than icon D.

In one embodiment water delivery system includes a diverter valve as apart of upper portion . In one embodiment diverter valve is a mechanical diverter valve which may provide a spray configuration in a first setting and a stream configuration in a second setting. An exemplary mechanical diverter valve is disclosed in U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 756 839 filed Jan. 5 2006 titled PUSH BUTTON DIVERTER the disclosure of which is expressly incorporated herein by reference. An exemplary electrically controlled valve is a solenoid valve. Exemplary diverter valves are discussed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 700 556 filed Jan. 31 2007 titled PULL OUT WAND the disclosure of which is expressly incorporated by reference herein.

In one embodiment spout includes a pull out wand which includes diverter valve . The wand also includes one or more of the various user inputs discussed herein. In one embodiment the wand portion and the base portion of the spout are touch sensitive such that touching either the wand portion or the base portion will activate or deactivate the flow of water. In one embodiment only the wand portion of the spout is touch sensitive such that touching the wand portion will activate or deactivate the flow of water while touching the base portion will not activate or deactivate the flow of water. Details regarding exemplary pull out wands are discussed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 700 556 filed Jan. 31 2007 titled PULL OUT WAND the disclosure of which is expressly incorporated by reference herein.

In one embodiment shown in water delivery system is shown. Water delivery system is generally the same as the illustrated embodiment of water delivery system except that a diverter valve is provided as apart of lower portion as opposed to upper portion . Diverter valve controls when water from the mixing valve is provided to spout and onto the user. Diverter valve is in fluid communication with mixing valve through first output of mixing valve and has two outputs A and B which are waterways such as tubing that are in fluid communication with spout .

Diverter valve is an electronic valve controlled by controller . In one embodiment diverter valve has three settings off path A corresponding to output A which is in fluid communication with a stream outlet of spout and path B corresponding to output B which is in fluid communication with a spray outlet of spout . Controller may set diverter valve to the off setting to stop the flow of water to spout to the path A setting in response to a user selection of a spray configuration and to the path B setting in response to a user selection of a steam configuration.

Further diverter valve may be used to regulate a flow rate of water delivery system . In a metering example diverter valve may provide a first gross flow rate until the desired quantity is approached then provide a second fine flow rate being less than the gross flow rate until the desired quantity is achieved. The same metering example may be achieved with mixing valve as well.

In one embodiment diverter valve includes a separate outlet which is coupled to another internal waterway of spout to provide a power spray mode. This mode may be useful in rinsing kitchenwares. In one embodiment water delivery system includes an air compressor which provides a source of compressed air which is used to increase the flow rate in the power spray mode and in the other modes. In one embodiment the power spray mode and the spray mode both use the same internal waterway in spout . Exemplary diverter valves include two way and four way diverter valves either comprised of disks or solenoids.

Presets illustratively correspond to various tasks. For each task selected controller adjusts the temperature of the water the flow rate of the water and or the position of diverter valve of spout . Icon A corresponds to the task of providing drinking water. In response to the selection of icon A controller provides generally cold water such as about 70 F. in a stream configuration at a flow rate which correlates well to the filling of a drinking glass such as a moderate flow rate . In one embodiment controller provides filtered water to drink.

Icon B corresponds to the task of providing water for washing kitchenwares such as dishes. In response to the selection of icon B controller provides generally hot water such as in the range of about 110 F. to about 120 F. in a stream configuration at a flow rate which correlates well to the washing of kitchenwares such as a moderate flow rate of about 1.5 gallons per minute . In one embodiment controller provides the water in a spray configuration.

Icon C corresponds to the task of providing water for washing hands or other body parts. In response to the selection of icon C controller provides generally warm to hot water such as about 104 F. in a stream configuration at a flow rate which correlates well to the washing of hands such as a moderate flow rate of about one gallon per minute . In one embodiment controller provides the water in a spray configuration.

Icon D corresponds to the task of providing water for washing foodstuffs such as vegetables or fruit. In response to the selection of icon D controller provides generally cold water full cold in a spray configuration at a flow rate which correlates well to the washing of vegetables or fruits such as a low flow rate of about 0.8 gallons per minute . In one embodiment controller provides the water in a spray configuration. In one embodiment water used for cooking either washing foodstuffs or filling a pot uses only cold water to minimize minerals in the water. In one example the cold water is filtered.

The use of icons A D and A D permit a user to rapidly switch between tasks such as from a hot water task like washing pots and pans to a cold water task like obtaining drinking water. The user may make adjustments to the water characteristics for a preset by selecting a location on screen . In one embodiment presets and are adjustable by the user such that the user may provide customized characteristics for a given icon A D and A D.

Referring to a further exemplary user input device is shown. User input device may be located at any of the locations A I depicted in . User input device includes a touch sensitive screen such as a plurality of capacitive sensors which detect when a user touches a portion of the screen. In one embodiment user input device is coupled to controller through a wired connection. In another embodiment user input device is coupled to controller through a wireless connection. In the wireless configuration user input device includes a transmitter not shown and if two way communication is desired a receiver not shown along with a controller not shown to control the operation thereof.

A user may adjust the temperature by touching a location along a slider region or by touching a region to increase temperature or a region to decrease temperature. A user may simply touch a portion of region corresponding to the desired temperature or may contact region and drag the finger to a portion of region corresponding to the desired temperature. In one embodiment regions and are switches and not portions of touch screen . User input device includes a numeric representation of the temperature as well.

A user may adjust the flow rate by touching a location along a slider region or by touching a region to increase the flow rate or a region to decrease the flow rate. A user may simply touch a portion of region corresponding to the desired flow rate or may contact region and drag the finger to a portion of region corresponding to the desired flow rate. In one embodiment regions and are switches and not portions of touch screen . The selected temperature and flow rate are communicated to controller which adjusts valve to provide the desired temperature and flow rate.

Referring to a further exemplary user input device is shown. User input device may be located at any of the locations A I depicted in . User input device includes a touch sensitive screen such as a plurality of capacitive sensors which detect when a user touches a portion of the screen. In one embodiment user input device is coupled to controller through a wired connection. In another embodiment user input device is coupled to controller through a wireless connection. In the wireless configuration user input device includes a transmitter not shown and if two way communication is desired a receiver not shown along with a controller not shown to control the operation thereof.

A user may adjust the temperature by touching a location along a slider region or by touching a region to increase temperature or a region to decrease temperature. A user may simply touch a portion of region corresponding to the desired temperature or may contact region and drag the finger to a portion of region corresponding to the desired temperature. In one embodiment regions and are switches and not portions of touch screen . User input device includes a numeric representation of the temperature as well.

A user may adjust the flow rate by touching a location along a slider region or by touching a region to increase the flow rate or a region to decrease the flow rate. A user may simply touch a portion of region corresponding to the desired flow rate or may contact region and drag the finger to a portion of region corresponding to the desired flow rate. In one embodiment regions and are switches and not portions of touch screen . The selected temperature and flow rate are communicated to controller which adjusts valve to provide the desired temperature and flow rate.

User input device further includes a plurality of presets and . Each of presets and includes an icon which represents a function associated with the respective preset. Illustratively presets includes icons A D which correspond to the same functions as icons A D of user input device and presets includes icons A D which correspond to the same functions as icons A D of user input device . To activate a preset a user touches screen in a region corresponding to the icon. In one embodiment the presets are actuatable buttons or switches not touch regions.

The use of icons A D and A D permit a user to rapidly switch between tasks such as from a hot water task like washing pots and pans to a cold water task like obtaining drinking water. The user may make adjustments to the water characteristics for a preset by selecting a different temperature with one of regions and and or by selecting a different flow rate with one of regions and . In one embodiment presets and are adjustable by the user such that the user may provide customized characteristics for a given icon A D and A D.

Referring to a further exemplary user input device is shown. User input device may be located at any of the locations A I depicted in but is illustratively located in location G integrated with a spout . User input device includes a touch sensitive face such as a plurality of capacitive sensors which detect when a user touches a portion of the face. Touch sensitive face and other user input devices shown in location G may include a curved face with vertically oriented capacitive sensors. Additional details about the vertically oriented capacitive sensors and touch sensitive face are provided in U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 793 885 filed Apr. 20 2006 titled Vertical Touch Sensor listing Paul D. Koottungal as the inventor the disclosure of which is expressly incorporated by reference herein.

In one embodiment user input device is coupled to controller through a wired connection. In another embodiment user input device is coupled to controller through a wireless connection. In the wireless configuration user input device includes a transmitter not shown and if two way communication is desired a receiver not shown along with a controller not shown to control the operation thereof.

User input device further includes a plurality of presets . Each preset includes an icon A G which each represent a function associated with the respective preset. To activate a preset a user touches face in a region corresponding to the icon. In one embodiment the presets are actuatable buttons or switches not touch regions. Presets illustratively correspond to various tasks. For each task selected controller adjusts the temperature of the water the flow rate of the water and or the position of the diverter valve not shown of spout . The use of icons A G permit a user to rapidly switch between tasks such as from a hot water task like washing pots and pans to a cold water task like obtaining drinking water.

Icon A corresponds to the task of providing water for washing hands or other body parts. In response to the selection of icon A controller provides generally warm to hot water such as about 104 F. in a stream configuration at a flow rate which correlates well to the washing of hands such as a moderate flow rate . In one embodiment controller provides the water in a spray configuration.

Icon B corresponds to the task of providing water for washing foodstuffs such as vegetables or fruit. In response to the selection of icon B controller provides generally cold water in a spray configuration at a flow rate which correlates well to the washing of vegetables or fruit such as a low flow rate . In one embodiment controller provides the water in a stream configuration.

Icon C corresponds to the task of providing water for pot filling. In one example the user presets the amount of fluid to be dispensed. In response to the selection of icon C controller provides generally cold water at a flow rate which correlates well to filling the container. In one example a high to moderate flow rate is used initially followed by a moderate to slow flow rate as the metered amount is approached.

The parameters associated with icon C and all the icons disclosed herein may be configured by the user. In one embodiment the user sets the desired parameters and or dispenses the desired quantity of fluid and then taps the respective icon multiple times such as three to set the parameters for the icon. The parameters may also be set remotely over a wireless network. In one embodiment the dispensing of fluid from spout commences upon the selection of an icon. In one embodiment the dispensing of fluid from spout commences upon the subsequent activation of the spout such as through hands free detection a tap to region voice commands and other methods of activation discussed herein. once activated the fluid is provided in accordance with the icon previously selected. The selection of a icon in one embodiment has a timeout feature such as the two timers discussed below upon the expiration of which the water delivery system returns to a root mode.

In one embodiment each icon includes an associated light such as an LED positioned behind the icon which lights when the icon is active.

Icon D corresponds to the task of providing water for washing kitchenwares such as dishes. In response to the selection of icon D controller provides generally hot water such as in the range of about 110 F. to about 120 F. in a stream configuration at a flow rate which correlates well to the washing of dishes such as a moderate flow rate . In one embodiment controller provides the water in a spray configuration.

Icon E corresponds to the task of providing drinking water. In response to the selection of icon E controller provides generally cold water in a stream configuration at a flow rate which correlates well to the filling of a drinking glass such as a moderate flow rate . In one embodiment controller provides filtered water to drink.

Icon F corresponds to the task of providing instant hot water. In response to the selection of icon F controller provides generally hot water.

Icon G corresponds to the task of cleaning the faucet. As the user cleans face the user does not want to activate each of the icons. As such touching icon C results in the remaining icons being locked out for a period of time to permit cleaning.

Face further includes a region which is a tap region. By tapping region the faucet is turned on if off or turned off if on. In one embodiment portions of spout outside of face also constitute a tap region similar to region .

The tap region may comprise conventional capacitance sensors configured to provide a signal to the controller in response to a user touching tap region . Tap region may comprise capacitive touch sensors such as a Q Prox sensor manufactured by Quantum Research Group of Hamble United Kingdom. Tap region may operate in a manner similar to that detailed in any one of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 325 927 filed Jan. 5 2006 titled METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR DETERMINING WHEN HANDS ARE UNDER A FAUCET FOR LAVATORY APPLICATIONS U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 324 901 filed Jan. 4 2006 titled BATTERY BOX ASSEMBLY U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 325 128 filed Jan. 4 2006 titled SPOUT ASSEMBLY FOR AN ELECTRONIC FAUCET U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 325 284 filed Jan. 4 2006 titled METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR PROVIDING STRAIN RELIEF OF A CABLE U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 326 986 filed Jan. 5 2006 titled VALVE BODY ASSEMBLY WITH ELECTRONIC SWITCHING U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 326 989 filed Jan. 5 2006 titled POSITION SENSING DETECTOR ARRANGEMENT FOR CONTROLLING A FAUCET U.S. Pat. No. 6 962 168 issued Nov. 8 2005 titled CAPACITIVE TOUCH ON OFF CONTROL FOR AN AUTOMATIC RESIDENTIAL FAUCET U.S. Pat. No. 6 968 860 issued Nov. 29 2005 titled RESTRICTED FLOW HANDS FREE FAUCET U.S. Published Patent Application 2005 0151101A1 published on Jul. 14 2005 titled CONTROL ARRANGEMENT FOR AN AUTOMATIC RESIDENTIAL FAUCET and U.S. Published Patent Application 2005 0150556A1 published on Jul. 14 2005 titled CONTROL ARRANGEMENT FOR AN AUTOMATIC RESIDENTIAL FAUCET the disclosures of which are expressly incorporated by reference herein. It should be further appreciated that tap sensors may be positioned within other portions of the spout or other components of water delivery system . It should be understood that any of the tap regions or areas described herein may include the above mentioned sensors.

Referring to a yet further exemplary user input device is shown. User input device may be located at any of the locations depicted in but is illustratively located in location G integrated with a spout . User input device includes a touch sensitive face such as a plurality of capacitive sensors which detect when a user touches various portions of the face. In one embodiment user input device is coupled to controller through a wired connection. In another embodiment user input device is coupled to controller through a wireless connection. In the wireless configuration user input device includes a transmitter not shown and if two way communication is desired a receiver not shown along with a controller not shown to control the operation thereof.

User input device includes a flow rate control which includes a plurality of preset flow rates. A user may select one of the present temperatures by touching the corresponding icon A G. Also flow rate control functions as a slider control wherein a user may touch a portion of flow rate control and drag the finger up or down to change the flow rate. In addition user input device includes a temperature control which includes a plurality of preset temperatures. A user may select one of the preset temperatures by touching the corresponding icon A J. Also temperature control works as a slider control wherein a user may touch a portion of temperature control and drag the finger up or down to change the temperature. In one embodiment the temperature presets are different colors to correspond to the temperatures such as a deep blue for area A cold water lighter blue for area C cool water pink for E warm water and red for area I hot water . The various colors may be generated by mixing the colors from three colored LEDs through the use of a pulse width modulation technique that drives all three LEDs.

In one embodiment sliding the finger along either flow rate control or temperature control provides a gross control for the respective flow rate or temperature. Once the desired gross flow rate or temperature is selected the user may tap the sensor to provide fine control for the respective flow rate or temperature. In one example the respective flow rate control or temperature control is divided into three regions. A first region corresponding to a fine parameter decrease zone which responses to tapping. A second region corresponding to a gross parameter zone which responses to sliding. A third region corresponding to a fine parameter increase zone which responses to tapping. As such a user may select a gross value of a parameter flow rate or temperature with the second region and then either decrease the parameter with the first region or increase the parameter with the second region. In one example related to temperature the first and third regions adjust the temperature by increments specified by controller such as about 0.5 increments or about 1.0 increments. In one example the second region is normalized to a range specified by controller .

User input device further includes a flow pattern control . A user may select a stream configuration flow pattern by touching icon A. A user may select a spray configuration flow pattern by touching icon B. Controller adjusts a diverter valve not shown in spout based on the selection of either icon A or B. Face further includes a region which is a tap region. By tapping region the faucet is turned on if off or turned off if on. In one embodiment portions of spout outside of face also constitute a tap region similar to region .

In one embodiment a liquid crystal display LCD touch screen is provided. The LCD screen may display the same icons as the interfaces discussed herein and or include slide controls. The LCD may also be menu driven. Further the icons displayed by the LCD are variable and may be updated as functionality changes such as the addition of new modules. An exemplary LCD display is shown in .

Referring to still another exemplary user input device is shown. User input device may be located at any of the locations depicted in but is illustratively located in location G integrated with a spout . User input device includes a touch sensitive face such as a plurality of capacitive sensors which detect when a user touches various portions of the face. In one embodiment user input device is coupled to controller through a wired connection. In another embodiment user input device is coupled to controller through a wireless connection. In the wireless configuration user input device includes a transmitter not shown and if two way communication is desired a receiver not shown along with a controller not shown to control the operation thereof.

User input device includes a flow rate control . Flow rate control permits a user to select a desired flow rate of water. A user may touch and release a portion of flow rate control to select a corresponding flow rate. Also a user may touch a portion of flow rate control and then slide their finger along flow rate control to adjust the flow rate. By sliding the finger away from the outlet of spout the flow rate is increased and by sliding the finger towards the outlet of spout the flow rate is decreased. User input device further includes a temperature control . Temperature control permits a user to select a desired temperature of water. A user may touch and release a portion of temperature control to select a corresponding temperature. Also a user may touch a portion of temperature control and then slide their finger along temperature control to adjust the temperature. By sliding the finger away from the outlet of spout the temperature is increased and by sliding the finger towards the outlet of spout the temperature is decreased.

User input device further includes a flow pattern control . A user may select a stream configuration flow pattern by touching icon . A user may select a spray configuration flow pattern by touching icon . Controller adjusts a diverter valve not shown in spout based on the selection of either icon or . Face further includes a region which is a tap region. By tapping region the faucet is turned on if off or turned off if on. In one embodiment portions of spout outside of face also constitute a tap region similar to region .

User input device further includes one or more task presets . Task presets adjusts one or more of temperature flow rate volume dispensed and flow pattern based on the task. Illustratively a warm water icon is displayed. By touching icon controller configures spout and or valve to dispense water having a warm temperature a flow rate corresponding to the filling of a cup and a stream flow pattern. Further a textual label is shown. Textual label includes the word CLEAN and corresponds to a preset for cleaning the faucet. Touching textual label results in the remaining icons by locked out for a period of time such that the faucet may be cleaned. Additional tasks may be included such as providing cold filtered drinking water.

Referring to still yet another exemplary user input device is shown. User input device may be located at any of the locations depicted in but is illustratively located in location G integrated with a spout . User input device includes a touch sensitive face such as a plurality of capacitive sensors which detect when a user touches various portions of the face. In one embodiment user input device is coupled to controller through a wired connection. In another embodiment user input device is coupled to controller through a wireless connection. In the wireless configuration user input device includes a transmitter not shown and if two way communication is desired a receiver not shown along with a controller not shown to control the operation thereof.

User input device includes a disk shaped control separate from touch sensitive face . Control is also touch sensitive and is used to set temperature to set flow rate or to set temperature and flow rate. To set a first parameter such as temperature or flow rate with control a user moves their finger along an outer circular portion . In one embodiment movement in a clockwise direction increases the parameter such as hotter water and movement in a counter clockwise direction decreases the parameter such as colder water. Once the desired valve of the parameter has been achieved the user taps a central portion of control to set the parameter. In the instance where both flow rate and temperature are to be controlled a user selects a first parameter first such as flow rate with outer portion and central portion followed by the selection of a second parameter such as temperature with outer portion and central portion . Additional details regarding an exemplary touch pad are disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 7 046 230 the disclosure of which is expressly incorporated by reference herein.

User input device further includes as part of face a flow pattern control . A user may select a stream configuration flow pattern by touching icon . A user may select a spray configuration flow pattern by touching icon . Controller adjusts a diverter valve not shown in spout based on the selection of either icon or . Face further includes a region which is a tap region. By tapping region the faucet is turned on if off or turned off if on. In one embodiment portions of spout outside of face also constitute a tap region similar to region .

User input device further includes one or more presets . Presets adjust one or more of temperature flow rate volume dispensed and flow pattern based on the settings of preset . Illustratively two presets and are shown. Each preset may be programmed by a user to correspond to a specific task. The various programming techniques discussed herein such as multiple taps or remote update may be used.

Referring to still yet a further exemplary user input device is shown. User input device functions the same as user input device except that flow pattern controls and presets have been removed.

Referring to a further exemplary user interface is shown. Interface includes a temperature slider and a flow slider . Adjacent to temperature slider and flow slider are an array of LED lights respectively. In addition interface includes six preset inputs A B C D E and F. To activate a preset a user touches the interface in a region corresponding to the icon. In one embodiment the presets are actuatable buttons or switches not touch regions. Presets illustratively correspond to various tasks. For each task selected controller adjusts the temperature of the water the flow rate of the water and or the position of the diverter valve not shown of the respective spout. The use of presets A F permit a user to rapidly switch between tasks such as from a hot water task like washing pots and pans to a cold water task like obtaining drinking water. In one embodiment each preset includes an associated light such as an LED positioned behind the icon which lights when the icon is active.

Icon A corresponds to the task of providing water for washing kitchenwares such as dishes. In response to the selection of icon A controller provides generally hot water such as in the range of about 110 F. to about 120 F. in a stream configuration at a flow rate which correlates well to the washing of dishes such as a moderate flow rate . In one embodiment controller provides the water in a spray configuration.

Icon B corresponds to the task of providing water for washing hands or other body parts. In response to the selection of icon B controller provides generally warm to hot water such as about 104 F. in a stream configuration at a flow rate which correlates well to the washing of hands such as a moderate flow rate . In one embodiment controller provides the water in a spray configuration.

Icon C corresponds to the task of providing water for washing foodstuffs such as vegetables or fruit. In response to the selection of icon C controller provides generally cold water in a spray configuration at a flow rate which correlates well to the washing of vegetables or fruit such as a low flow rate . In one embodiment controller provides the water in a stream configuration.

Icon D corresponds to the task of providing water for pot filling. In one example the user presets the amount of fluid to be dispensed. In response to the selection of icon D controller provides generally cold water at a flow rate which correlates well to filling the container. In one example a high to moderate flow rate is used initially followed by a moderate to slow flow rate as the metered amount is approached.

Icon E corresponds to the task of providing water for a set quantity. In one example the set quantity is about 16 ounces. In response to the selection of icon E controller provides generally cold water in a stream configuration at a flow rate which correlates well to the filling of a drinking glass such as a low moderate flow rate . In one embodiment the flow rate slows down towards the completion of the filling operation to provide more precise control over the volume being dispensed. In one embodiment controller provides filtered water to drink. The characteristics of the water being dispensed may be redefined by a user by programming icon E to a different set of characteristics such as temperature flow rate output type and or volume.

Icon F corresponds to the task of providing water for a set quantity. In one example the set quantity is about 8 ounces. In response to the selection of icon F controller provides generally cold water in a stream configuration at a flow rate which correlates well to the filling of a drinking glass such as a low moderate flow rate . In one embodiment the flow rate slows down towards the completion of the filling operation to provide more precise control over the volume being dispensed. In one embodiment controller provides filtered water to drink. The characteristics of the water being dispensed may be redefined by a user by programming icon F to a different set of characteristics such as temperature flow rate output type and or volume.

The touch area corresponding to the HF icon corresponds to the task of activating or deactivating the hands free operation of the respective spout. In response to the selection of touch area controller activates the hands free sensors if deactivated or deactivates the hands free sensors if activated.

The touch area corresponding to the mode icon corresponds to a system on off feature whereby the system may be placed in an on mode or an off mode. In response to the selection of touch area controller when the system is on turns the system off when not in use or when being cleaned.

The touch area corresponding to the PROG icon corresponds to the task of programming one or presets A F. In response to the selection of touch area controller activates a program mode.

Referring to an exemplary method for programming a preset is shown. A user will touch or otherwise select the program input as represented by block . A user will touch or otherwise select a preset to be programmed as represented by block . Controller receives the input from program input and the selected preset and turns the water on at the default setting for the preset as represented by block . The user may then adjust one or more of the temperature flow and or spray setting as represented by block . Controller receives the input for adjusting one or more of the temperature flow and or spray setting as represented by block .

A user will again touch or otherwise select the program input to end the programming of preset as represented by block . Controller receives the second input from program input and checks to see if a program timer has expired as represented by block . In one embodiment a user is given one minute from the initial selection of the program input to complete any adjustments and select the program input a second time. If the program timer has expired the program sequence is cancelled and the preset retains its prior settings as represented by block . If the program timer has not expired an indication of the change to preset is provided to the user as represented by block . Exemplary indications include an audible signal such as a chirp or a visual signal such as a flashing LED.

Referring to an exemplary method for programming a preset is shown. A user will turn on the water such as with touch as represented by block . The user may then adjust one or more of the temperature flow and or spray setting as represented by block . Controller receives the input for adjusting one or more of the temperature flow and or spray setting. A user will touch or otherwise select the program input as represented by block . In response to receiving the input from the program input controller starts a program timer as represented by block .

A user will touch or otherwise select a preset to be programmed as represented by block . Controller receives the second input from program input and checks to see if a program timer has expired as represented by block . In one embodiment a user is given five seconds from the initial selection of the program input to select the preset input a second time. If the program timer has expired the program sequence is cancelled and the preset retains its prior settings as represented by block . If the program timer has not expired an indication of the change to preset is provided to the user as represented by block . Exemplary indications include an audible signal such as a chirp or a visual signal such as a flashing LED.

Referring to user interface is shown as a remote user interface device . User interface device like user interface device in is moveable about a sink deck area. User interface device includes a base which sits upon the sink deck and holds user interface at an angle. User interface device communicates wirelessly with controller .

Referring to user interface is shown as a user interface device . User interface device includes a base portion a stem portion which extends through an opening in a sink deck and a coupler which secures user interface device to the sink deck. In one embodiment user interface device communicates wirelessly with controller . In one embodiment user interface device communicates with controller through a wired connection that passes through stem portion .

Referring to user interface device is shown. User interface device is generally similar to user interface device . User interface device includes a base portion a stem portion which extends through an opening in a sink deck and a coupler which secures user interface device to the sink deck. In one embodiment user interface device communicates wirelessly with controller . In one embodiment user interface device communicates with controller through a wired connection that passes through stem portion .

As shown in user interface device includes a display . Display is used to communicate information to a user and or to receive information from the user. Referring to a exemplary screen of display is shown. A top portion of screen includes a first region including a text icon ON a second region including a text icon HANDS FREE a third region including a text icon OFF a fourth region including an icon which is a logo a fifth region including a text icon PROG and a sixth region including a text icon CLEAN . Although six regions are illustrated display may have fewer or greater numbers of regions.

In one embodiment display is a touch screen and controller interprets a touch to a given region to correspond to the an input for the icon shown. for instance a task icon could be shown in region and controller would interpret a touch of region to correspond to a selection of that task icon. In one embodiment display is not a touch screen and user interface device further includes inputs and positioned around display . Inputs and may be buttons touch regions or other suitable types of inputs. In this case the icons presented in regions and define the functionality associated with inputs and . This permits inputs and to be soft keys. As discussed herein the selection of one of regions and is one of the selection of a touch area of display embodiments when it is a touch screen or the selection of a corresponding input and associated with display embodiments when it is not a touch screen .

In one embodiment display is color and the color of the icon in region changes to correspond to the temperature of the water being dispensed. In one embodiment display dims or is turned off after a period of inactively. In one example the period of inactivity is about 10 minutes. In one embodiment region displays one or more of a time and or date one or more pictures a last setpoint when idle such as temperature flow output type the flow rate as percentage of maximum flow rate an actual flow rate or a graphical representation a help menu possible functions of the system water quality information if associated sensor is included filtered water information such as filter life and or water usage data.

Referring to a screen corresponding to when the system is in a slider mode wherein the selected temperature is shown in region . In one embodiment the selected flow rate may also be shown. In one embodiment a background color of display corresponds to the actual temperature of the water.

Referring to a screen corresponding to when the system is in a task mode wherein the corresponding task icon is shown in region . In one embodiment screen reverts to screen after a period of inactivity such as 1 to 2 minutes. In one embodiment a color of the task icon corresponds to the desired temperature of the water.

Referring to a selection of region results in the display of screen . As indicated in region a user is informed that the cleaning mode has been entered and that the cleaning mode may be ended by holding the spout or another input for about 2 seconds.

Referring to a screen corresponding to when the system is in a dispense mode to dispense a specific quantity of water. In region a user is informed that dispensing may be commenced by one of tapping the spout or inserting a container hands free activation . In one embodiment screen also displays the quantity requested.

Referring to a countdown of the amount to be dispensed is shown on screen after dispensing has commenced. In one embodiment the countdown is a graphical representation of a container filling up. In one embodiment the countdown is a bar graph. In one embodiment a percentage value is shown.

Referring to a programming of a task feature and a dispense feature through display are discussed. Referring to screen is shown which is generally the same as screen of along with region being selected to start the program feature. In response to the selection of region screen in is shown. As shown in the text icons for regions and have changed to state TASK and DISPENSE respectively.

If region is selected screen is shown see . The user is prompted to set the desired temperature and flow. In one embodiment the current desired temperature is shown and or the current desired flow rate. These values change as the user selects revised values. The user may select region to cancel programming. The may also select region to accept the changes and finish programming. In response to the selection of region screen is shown for a period of time and then screen is shown again.

If region is selected screen is shown see . The user is prompted to set the desired temperature and flow. In one embodiment the current desired temperature is shown and or the current desired flow rate. These values change as the user selects revised values. The user may select region to cancel programming. The may also select region to continue to the next operation. In response to the selection of region screen is shown see wherein the user is prompted to tap the spout or activate the hands free sensor to begin dispensing the water. Once dispensing has begun screen is shown prompting the user to select region at the desired volume. In one embodiment the current volume dispensed is shown on display . In response to the selection of region screen is shown for a period of time and then screen is shown again.

Referring to a further exemplary user input device is shown. User input device may be located at any of the locations depicted in but is illustratively located in location G integrated with a spout . Spout is a pull out spout. As shown in a user may grasp spout by the hand and actuate a joystick of user input device with a thumb. Joystick permits quick adjustments to temperature and flow rate while spout is pulled out in sprayer mode. In one embodiment user input device is coupled to controller through a wired connection. In another embodiment user input device is coupled to controller through a wireless connection. In the wireless configuration user input device includes a transmitter not shown and if two way communication is desired a receiver not shown along with a controller not shown to control the operation thereof.

Referring to a user may move joystick in direction to increase the flow rate of water and in direction to decrease the flow rate of water. In addition a user may move joystick generally to the left in direction to increase the temperature of the water and generally to the right in direction to decrease the temperature of the water.

Referring to a spout is shown mounted to a sink deck . In one embodiment spout is mounted to sink deck with connector . As explained herein spout includes various user input capabilities. Further a separate user input device is shown including a joystick . In one embodiment hall effect sensors track the movement of joystick . Additional details of tracking the movement of a joystick type input with Hall effect sensors are provided in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 326 986 filed Jan. 5 2006 titled VALVE BODY ASSEMBLY WITH ELECTRONIC SWITCHING the disclosure of which is expressly incorporated by reference herein. The position of joystick is communicated to controller either through a wired connection or a wireless connection. In one embodiment joystick uses resistive elements to track position.

In one embodiment joystick is used to indicate the desired temperature and flow rate of water exiting spout . A user would move joystick in direction to increase the flow rate of water and in direction to decrease the flow rate of water. A user would move joystick in direction to increase the temperature of water and in direction to decrease the temperature of water.

In one embodiment the position of joystick is known as the root or default mode. This will be the temperature and flow rate of water exiting spout . The flow of water from spout may be activated in various manners. In one embodiment the flow of water may be activated by touching a tap sensor such as a capacitive sensor. In the illustrated embodiment a tap sensor is provided on the end portion of spout . In another embodiment other portions of spout or user input device may include a tap sensor which signals to controller to activate the flow of water from spout . In a further embodiment the flow of water may be activated by the detection of an object in a region below an outlet of spout . Thus spout operates in a hands free manner. In one embodiment infrared sensors cameras or other suitable sensing or viewing devices are used to detect the presence of an object in region . Exemplary sensing or viewing devices include digital image sensors such as CCD devices used in digital cameras. In still a further embodiment end portion of spout is a pull out wand member and the flow of water may be activated by simply pulling end portion from the remainder of spout . In one embodiment the movement of end portion is detected with hall effect sensors as described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 325 128 filed Jan. 4 2006 titled SPOUT ASSEMBLY FOR AN ELECTRONIC FAUCET U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 325 284 filed Jan. 4 2006 titled SPOUT ASSEMBLY FOR AN ELECTRONIC FAUCET AND METHOD FOR PROVIDING STRAIN RELIEF OF A CABLE and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 700 556 filed Jan. 31 2007 titled PULL OUT WAND the disclosures of which are expressly incorporated by reference herein and is applicable to all the disclosed spouts each of which may include a pull out wand member.

In one embodiment the hands free operation is activated with a wired or wireless proximity sensor that is positioned below an upper surface of sink deck . The proximity sensor detects the presence of a person adjacent the cabinet area of the sink in front of the faucet and activates the faucet similar to the hands free operation adjacent the spout described herein. In one embodiment the proximity sensor is an infrared sensor. In one embodiment the proximity sensor is positioned near the floor to detect the presence of a user s feet. In one embodiment the proximity sensor is positioned to detect the presence of a user s legs. In one embodiment the proximity sensor is positioned to detect the presence of a user s torso. Controller activates water delivery system in response to the detection of the user s feet and or deactivates water delivery system in response to the absence of detection of the user s feet.

In addition to providing water at the root mode setting controller may provide water through spout as various other settings based on user input. In the illustrated embodiment a full cold user input is provided as a tap region on a right side of end portion of spout . Tapping input indicates to controller that full cold water is desired without requiring the user to change the root mode setting. An indicator light not shown beneath tap region illuminates a periphery of region to indicate that region is activated. Flow from spout may be initiated by any of the automatic manners discussed above tapping region hands free or pulling out end portion of spout .

In one embodiment two timers are initiated by controller in response to the activation of region . A first timer designated a non attendance timer has a first predetermined time period wherein if the user has not commenced with dispensing water through one of the automatic manners within the predetermined time period controller returns the setting to the root mode. Returning the setting to the root mode includes adjusting valve to coincide with the root mode temperature and flow rate. One example wherein the non attendance timer may cause the return to the root mode is the situation wherein a user taps function region then leaves to answer phone or door. A second timer designated a non irritating timer has a second predetermined time period wherein if the user has not commenced with dispensing water through one of the automatic manners within the predetermined time period since a previous dispensing controller returns the setting to the root mode. One example wherein the non irritating timer may cause the return to the root mode is the situation wherein a user taps function region fills a first glass with cold water and subsequently presents a second glass for filling. If the second glass is presented within the second predetermined timeframe then the second glass also receives full cold water otherwise water at the root setting. The return to root mode may be considered as a safety feature. If the root mode corresponds to a warm setting then a hot setting selected for a given task would return to a safer temperature after a period of time to prevent the inadvertent dispensing of hot water. In one embodiment a root mode or other setting is associated with hands free activation of the spout whereby water at that specific settings is dispensed for hands free activation.

A user may also initiate the dispensing of full cold water from spout by simply holding their finger on region . Controller recognizes the hold or grab versus the tap and dispenses water from spout . Once the user releases region the non irritating timer is commenced. At the timeout of the non irritating timer the same is applicable to the non attendant timer the peripheral illumination of region is stopped indicating a return to root mode.

Further in embodiments where a large portion or generally all of the spout is touch sensitive controller is able to distinguish between a touch and a grab. In one example a tap is less about 350 milliseconds and a grab is greater than about 350 milliseconds. As grasping the spout to orient the spout will not cause the activation of water flow nor the cessation of water flow. In one embodiment wherein the spout includes a pull out wand portion pulling out the wand although a grab will begin the flow of water. The detection of the pulling out of a wand portion is discussed herein. Further the hands free sensors will be disabled while the wand is pulled out.

In the illustrated embodiment a hot user input is provided as a tap region one of a left side not shown of end portion of spout or at a base of spout . Tapping input indicates to controller that full hot water is desired without requiring the user to change the root mode setting. An indicator light not shown beneath tap region illuminates a periphery of region to indicate that region is activated. Flow from spout may be initiated by any of the automatic manners discussed above tapping region hands free or pulling out end portion of spout .

In one embodiment controller sets an upper limit to the temperature of hot water dispensed to prevent scalding. In one example the user presses an input such as a button at the base of the spout to activate the upper limit of the temperature of hot water. As such higher temperature water may be dispensed when the button has not been depressed. When the button is pressed a red light is activated to illuminate the button.

In one embodiment two timers a non attendance timer and a non irritating timer are initiated by controller in response to the activation of region . These timers function the same as discussed above in connection with region . As with region a user may also initiate the dispensing of full hot water from spout by simply holding their finger on region . Controller recognizes the hold versus the tap and dispenses water from spout . Once the user releases region the non irritating timer is commenced. At the timeout of the non irritating timer the same is applicable to the non attendant timer the peripheral illumination of region is stopped indicating a return to root mode.

In the illustrated embodiment a preset user input is provided as a tap region on the front of end portion below tap region . Tapping input indicates to controller to set valve to a user preset temperature and flow rate. An indicator light not shown beneath tap region illuminates a periphery of region to indicate that region is activated. Flow from spout may be initiated by any of the automatic manners discussed above tapping region hands free or pulling out end portion of spout .

In one embodiment two timers a non attendance timer and a non irritating timer are initiated by controller in response to the activation of region . These timers function the same as discussed above in connection with region . As with region a user may also initiate the dispensing of water at the preset condition from spout by simply holding their finger on region . Controller recognizes the hold versus the tap and dispenses water from spout . Once the user releases region the non irritating timer is commenced. At the timeout of the non irritating timer the same is applicable to the non attendant timer the peripheral illumination of region is stopped indicating a return to root mode.

User preset may be programmed by selecting the desired temperature and flow rate with joystick and tapping region three times. In response the peripheral light around region will flicker three times to indicate setting has been accepted. In another embodiment multiple user presets are similar to region are provided.

In one embodiment tapping on preset region cycles the faucet through various preset modes of operation such as vegetable washing. An associated display provides an indication of the current mode and or water characteristic settings. Further in an additional embodiment portion of spout includes a plurality of sensors such as infrared sensors not shown on a side of portion . The sensors are capable of detecting the presence of a user s hand. In one example the sensors are arranged vertically to detect a direction of travel of a hand either upward or downward. In one embodiment the user waves the hand in an upward fashion to indicate to controller to increase the temperature of the water or another water characteristic and waves the hand in a downward fashion to indicate to controller to decrease the temperature of the water or another water characteristic. In another embodiment the user waves the hand in a first direction such as upward to initiate the flow of water and in a second direction such as downward to cease the flow of water.

Referring to user input device is shown further including a base portion which is used to select specific volumes of water to be dispensed by spout . Base portion includes an amount input illustratively a dial having a plurality of corresponding indicia . With base portion a user may precisely dispense a required amount of water for a given task such as preparing a certain food item. In one embodiment base portion is separateable from the remainder of user input device . In another embodiment base portion and the remainder of user input device are not separateable by a user. Further base portion includes visual indications for which unit the indicia of dial correspond illustratively cups and ounces .

A user provides the requisite input to base portion as follows. First tapping dial activates the selection of a specific volume of fluid to be dispensed. Further tapping of dial toggles through the various unit options centiliters liters quarts illustratively cups and ounces. The user also positions the selector dial to provide the proper amount of the selected unit such as two and one half cups. The user may position the selector dial to select the proper amount prior to selecting the proper units. The dispensing of the precise amount of fluid may be the result of the automatic modes discussed above such as hands free and tapping region . Once the precise amount of water has been dispensed the non irritating timer is commenced. At the timeout of the non irritating timer the same is applicable to the non attendant timer the illumination of the corresponding unit and is stopped indicating a return to root mode. In one embodiment controller adjusts the flow rate of the water based on the quantity of liquid to be dispensed. For example controller sets a higher flow rate when several quarts are to be dispensed as opposed to when a single cup is to be dispensed. This ensures that large containers fill quickly and fluid does not splash out of small containers.

Referring to user input device is shown further including a base portion which is used to select specific volumes of water to be dispensed by spout . Base portion includes an amount input illustratively a dial having a plurality of corresponding indicia . With base portion a user may precisely dispense a required amount of water for a given task such as preparing a certain food item. In one embodiment base portion is separateable from the remainder of user input device . In another embodiment base portion and the remainder of user input device are not separatable by a user. Further base portion includes unit inputs illustratively cups and ounces . In one embodiment unit inputs are buttons. In another embodiment unit inputs are touch regions.

A user provides the requisite input to base portion as follows. By touching the appropriate input or the user selects the units. By positioning the selector dial the proper amount of fluid is indicated. The dispensing of the precise amount of fluid may be the result of the automatic modes discussed above such as hands free and tapping region . Once the precise amount of water has been dispensed the non irritating timer is commenced. At the timeout of the non irritating timer the same is applicable to the non attendant timer the illumination of the corresponding unit or is stopped indicating a return to root mode.

Referring to another exemplary user input device is shown. User input device may be located at any of the locations depicted in but is illustratively located in location F. User input device is a portable device. User input device includes two touch sensitive faces and . In one embodiment faces an include a plurality of capacitive sensors which detect when a user touches various portions of the respective face. In one embodiment user input device is coupled to controller through a wired connection. In another embodiment user input device is coupled to controller through a wireless connection. In the wireless configuration user input device includes a transmitter not shown and if two way communication is desired a receiver not shown along with a controller not shown to control the operation thereof.

Touch sensitive face is used to control temperature and flow rate. Similar to user input device see a user may select a temperature and a flow rate by simply tapping a location on face . Further a user may touch face and drag the finger to adjust temperature and flow rate. Dragging the finger in direction increases the temperature of the water. Dragging the finger in direction decreases the temperature of the water. Dragging the finger radially outward increases the flow rate of the water. Dragging the finger radially inward decreases the flow rate of the water.

Touch sensitive face is used to control the volume of water delivered by spout . With touch screen a user may select an amount by touching the corresponding portion of touch face or by sliding the finger along touch face to the appropriate amount. In addition four units buttons A D are provided. A user selects the appropriate units by depressing the corresponding button. Button A corresponds to cups. Button B corresponds to quarts. Button C corresponds to gallons. Button D corresponds to liters.

User input device further includes three preset buttons A C. The user selects a temperature and flow rate with touch screen and potentially a volume with touch screen and unit buttons A D and then assigns those values to one of presets A C. In one embodiment the values once selected are assigned in the following manner. A user depresses a program button followed by depressing the respective one of presets A C.

After the desired values are selected or a preset has been selected the user initiates delivery of the water by depressing the fill button . In one embodiment the delivery of water is initiated by the sensing of a tap sensor on the spout or the detection of an object with the hands free sensor. User input device then transmits or otherwise makes available to controller the selections made. Controller sets valve accordingly. In one embodiment a plurality of LEDs count down the quantity being dispensed. In one embodiment touch screen includes associated LEDs that count down the quantity being dispensed.

User input device includes a removable cover . A user may remove cover and replace cover with another cover having a preferred color or appearance such as to match the d cor of the room.

Referring to another exemplary user input device is shown. User input device may be located at any of the locations depicted in but is illustratively located in location F. User input device is a portable device. User input device includes a touch sensitive face and four presets A D. In one embodiment face includes a plurality of capacitive sensors which detect when a user touches various portions of face . In one embodiment user input device is coupled to controller through a wired connection. In another embodiment user input device is coupled to controller through a wireless connection. In the wireless configuration user input device includes a transmitter not shown and if two way communication is desired a receiver not shown along with a controller not shown to control the operation thereof.

Touch sensitive face is used to control temperature flow rate and flow pattern. Similar to user input device see a user may select a temperature by simply tapping a temperature control which includes a plurality of preset temperatures. A user may select one of the preset temperatures by touching the corresponding icon A J. Also temperature control works as a slider control wherein a user may touch a portion of temperature control and drag the finger up or down to change the temperature. Dragging the finger in direction decreases the temperature. Dragging the finger in direction increases the temperature.

In addition a user may select a flow rate by simply tapping a flow rate control which includes a plurality of preset flow rates. A user may select one of the preset flow rates by touching the corresponding icon A J. Also flow rate control works as a slider control wherein a user may touch a portion of flow rate control and drag the finger up or down to change the flow rate. Dragging the finger in direction increases the flow rate. Dragging the finger in direction decreases the flow rate.

User input device further includes a flow pattern control . A user may select a stream configuration flow pattern by touching icon A. A user may select a spray configuration flow pattern by touching icon B. Controller adjusts a diverter valve in the corresponding spout such as spout based on the selection of either icon A and B.

User input device further includes four presets A D. Presets may be set to user defined settings or presets such as washing dishes washing foodstuffs washing hands filling containers filtered water delivery of hot water. Presets may be programmed by tapping the preset multiple times such as three holding the preset for a longer period of time or remotely across the wireless network.

In one embodiment controller receives an input from a microphone and sets valve and or diverter valve based on voice commands stated by the user. Exemplary voice commands include water on water off temperature increase and temperature decrease wash dishes wash hands wash vegetables cold water and hot water . Additional exemplary voice commands relate to tasks and include glass of water .

In one embodiment controller receives an input from a camera or other input which monitors a region below spout such as region discussed in connection with spout . However instead of simply detecting the presence of an object controller based on the signals received from the camera identifies the object type the presentment and adjusts valve and or valve accordingly.

As such controller may set valves and or valve for the task of washing foodstuffs if a foodstuff is identified. In one example when a presentment of foodstuffs such as vegetables or meats is identified cool water with a light spray is dispensed. Similarly controller may set valves and or valve for the task of washing dishes if a dish is identified. In one example when a presentment of kitchenwares such as dishes or pots is identified hot water with an aggressive flow pulsation is dispensed. Further controller may set valves and or valve for the task of washing hands if a hand is identified. In one example when a presentment of human skin such as hands is identified warm water with a mild flow pulsations is dispensed. In one embodiment the flow of water is initiated when a presentment is detected and stopped when the presentment is no longer detected.

Referring to a pot filler accessory is shown. Pot filler includes a lower portion having a recess which may be positioned over a lip of a pot . Pot filler further includes a water conduit which may be plumbed into the wall or connected to a port of connector . In one embodiment water conduit is a retractable water conduit.

Pot filler includes a tap region which activates or deactivates the flow of water from an outlet of pot filler . In one embodiment pot filler includes a valve and a controller which is activated by tap region . In another embodiment wherein pot filler is connected to connector water conduit includes an electrical cable that is connected to connection of connector . The input from tap region is communicated to controller through the electrical cable. In yet another embodiment pot filler includes a controller a valve and a receiver and a transmitter if two way communication is desired which communicates with controller or user input wirelessly.

Pot filler further includes a sensor in lower portion . Sensor detects the level of fluid in pot through a capacitive sensor or a resistive sensor.

Referring to a second container filling device is shown. Container filling device is illustrated for filling drinking glasses . However container filling device may be used to fill other types of containers such as pots. Container filling device includes a lower portion having a pressure sensitive pad not shown in a top surface which is used to detect the presence of container . Container filling device includes an upper portion which includes a sensor not shown in a lower edge . The sensor in lower edge confirms the proper placement of container below an outlet not shown of container filling device .

Container filling device further includes a user interface in upper portion . User interface includes a touch sensitive area which corresponds to hot water. A user dispenses hot water by pressing area . Hot water is dispensed until the user is no longer touching area . In one embodiment pressing area will not dispense hot water unless the sensor in the lower edge and or the pressure sensitive pad confirm the location of container . User interface further includes a touch sensitive area which corresponds to cold water. A user dispenses cold water by pressing area . Cold water is dispensed until the user is no longer touching area .

User interface further includes various metered of precise volume settings. Control is a slider control and adjusts a flow rate. Controls A D are presets. In one embodiment presets A D correspond to preset volumes such that filling device is an electronic measuring cup. In one embodiment presets A D may be set remotely over the wireless network.

Container filling device further includes a water conduit which may be plumbed into the wall or connected to a port of connector . In one embodiment container filling device includes a valve and a controller which is activated by touching region or . In another embodiment wherein container filling device is connected to connector water conduit includes an electrical cable that is connected to connection of connector . The input from tap region is communicated from container filling device to controller through the electrical cable.

Both accessory and may be used in conjunction with other user input devices such as user input device . For example a user may connect accessory to connector and container . The user would then specify a metered quantity of water to be dispensed with the input of device . Controller then causes the dispensing of the specified quantity of water to container through accessory .

The features described herein including the use of an electronic proportioning valve wireless connections to a user input device metering settable user inputs function based user inputs and or touch slide controls may be incorporated into additional water deliver systems such as the water delivery systems disclosed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 325 927 filed Jan. 5 2006 titled METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR DETERMINING WHEN HANDS ARE UNDER A FAUCET FOR LAVATORY APPLICATIONS U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 324 901 filed Jan. 4 2006 titled BATTERY BOX ASSEMBLY U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 325 128 filed Jan. 4 2006 titled SPOUT ASSEMBLY FOR AN ELECTRONIC FAUCET U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 325 284 filed Jan. 4 2006 titled METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR PROVIDING STRAIN RELIEF OF A CABLE U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 326 986 filed Jan. 5 2006 titled VALVE BODY ASSEMBLY WITH ELECTRONIC SWITCHING U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 326 989 filed Jan. 5 2006 titled POSITION SENSING DETECTOR ARRANGEMENT FOR CONTROLLING A FAUCET U.S. Pat. No. 6 962 168 issued Nov. 8 2005 titled CAPACITIVE TOUCH ON OFF CONTROL FOR AN AUTOMATIC RESIDENTIAL FAUCET U.S. Pat. No. 6 968 860 issued Nov. 29 2005 titled RESTRICTED FLOW HANDS FREE FAUCET U.S. Published Patent Application 2005 0151101A1 published on Jul. 14 2005 titled CONTROL ARRANGEMENT FOR AN AUTOMATIC RESIDENTIAL FAUCET and U.S. Published Patent Application 2005 0150556A1 published on Jul. 14 2005 titled CONTROL ARRANGEMENT FOR AN AUTOMATIC RESIDENTIAL FAUCET the disclosures of each being expressly incorporated by reference herein.

In one embodiment the system described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 325 927 filed Jan. 5 2006 titled METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR DETERMINING WHEN HANDS ARE UNDER A FAUCET FOR LAVATORY APPLICATIONS the disclosure of which is expressly incorporated by reference herein incorporates an additional criteria for the hands free activation. Once the hands free is activated the more stringent activation criteria e.g. stable signal is disabled for a period of time such as a 30 second time window. This has the effect of boosting performance by shortening hands free response time when objects are rapidly moving in and out of the water stream. After the 30 second window has expired the more stringent criteria will again applied with unstable signals to prevent false hands free activations. In one embodiment the above features are incorporated into the hand free operation of water delivery system .

Referring to an exemplary mixing valve is shown. Referring to and mixing valve includes a valve body which is positioned in a housing . Valve body includes two input conduits A see see which are connected to and in fluid communication with respective sources of water such as hot water and cold water and an output conduit which is in fluid communication with a conduit of fitting and is ultimately provided to spout or other water delivery device. Both inputs A and B and output are provided on a first end of mixing valve .

Water passing through inputs A and B are communicated to respective openings see wherein valve member is shown flipped to better illustrate openings in static valve member . Water is then communicated through respective openings see in temperature control valve member and onto flow control valve member if the respective openings are in fluid communication with respective openings . As explained herein temperature control valve member is rotatable is directions and . Such rotation changes whether one or both of respective openings are in fluid communication with respective openings and the extent to which each of respective openings are in fluid communication with respective openings .

Water is communicated from respective openings to opening in flow control valve member if the respective openings are in fluid communication with opening . Flow control valve member is translatable relative to temperature control valve member in directions and . Such translation changes whether openings are in fluid communication with opening and the extent to which openings are in fluid communication with opening . Water is then communicated from opening back through temperature control valve member through opening through opening in static valve member and onto output in valve body .

Returning to a mixing element which is positioned in output which spins relative to valve body to mix the water passing through output . Static valve member is positioned adjacent valve body . A seal is formed between valve member and body with spring loaded seals. Temperature control valve member is positioned adjacent to static valve member and is retained by a valve retainer . As shown in valve retainer includes a plurality of teeth which are engaged by a gear see which is coupled to a shaft of a stepper motor see . Valve retainer and temperature control member each include respective keyways and which receive a key member to prevent the relative rotation of temperature control member and valve retainer .

Stepper motor rotates gear to impart a rotation of temperature control valve member thereby adjusting the relative amounts of fluid entering from respective openings that is passed onto opening in flow control member . As such assuming that respective opening are in communication with hot water and cold water respectively then the rotation of temperature control valve member adjusts the temperature of water presented to opening in flow control valve member. Stepper motor is controlled by controller . Other types of motors may be used in conjunction with position control.

In the illustrated embodiment valve retainer includes an opening . opening is aligned with an optical position sensor when temperature control valve is in a default position. When in the default position light of an emitter of optical position sensor passes through opening to a detector of optical position sensor .

Flow control valve member is positioned adjacent to temperature control valve member and is retained with a second valve retainer . Second valve retainer includes a recess which receives flow control valve member . The relative position of flow control valve member relative to second valve retainer is maintained through a coupler illustratively a pin.

Second valve retainer further includes a pair of guides illustratively grooves which interact with a pair of guides on housing cover . Guides restrict the movement of valve retainer and hence flow control valve member to directions and shown in . Valve retainer is coupled to a linear stepper motor which moves valve retainer and hence flow control valve in directions and . Stepper motor is controlled by controller .

As discussed herein the movement of one of temperature control valve member and flow control valve member are independent of each other. As such temperature and flow may be independently adjusted by adjusting the respective one of temperature control valve member and flow control valve member .

In one embodiment mixing valve may be used with a conventional manual faucet and positioned above sink deck . In this embodiment temperature control valve is coupled to a manual input such as a ring member instead of a stepper motor. The ring member is accessible from an exterior of the faucet and may be rotated to rotate temperature control valve member in directions and . In one embodiment the ring member is the valve retainer for temperature control valve member . In one embodiment a plurality of detents are provided to provide feedback to the operator of the position of temperature control valve member . Further in this embodiment flow control valve member is coupled to a manual input such as a slider or a lever instead of stepper motor . The lever or slider moves flow control valve member in directions and .

Referring to a mixing valve is shown. Referring to mixing valve includes an upper valve body and a lower valve body . Upper valve body includes two input conduits A and B which are connected to and in fluid communication with respective sources of water such as hot water and cold water and an output conduit which is in fluid communication with a conduit of fitting and is ultimately provided to spout . Both inputs A and B and output are provided on an upper portion of mixing valve .

Water passing through inputs A and B are communicated to respective openings in surface see A for input A in and to respective opening in static valve member . Water is then communicated through respective opening in temperature control valve member . As shown in openings A B have a first perimeter A B at a top side of static valve member and a second perimeter A B at a bottom side of static valve member .

As explained herein temperature control valve member is rotatable is directions and . Such rotation changes whether one or both of respective openings are in fluid communication with a recess see in flow control valve member . Flow control valve member is translatable relative to temperature control valve member in directions and . Such translation changes whether openings are in fluid communication with recess and the extent to which openings are in fluid communication with recess . Water is then communicated from recess back through temperature control valve member through opening through opening in static valve member and onto output in upper valve body .

Referring to a gasket is received in a recess in upper valve housing . Gasket includes openings A and B which surround openings A and B of inputs and B respectively and an opening which surrounds an opening of output in upper valve housing . Static valve member is positioned adjacent gasket . Static valve member includes a recess in a bottom surface that generally matches the shape of gasket and receives gasket . Gasket provides a water tight seal between upper valve body and static valve member . Static valve member includes three key features which interact with respective key features one shown in to prevent static valve member from rotating relative to upper valve body .

Temperature control valve member is positioned adjacent to static valve member and is retained by a valve retainer . A water tight seal is formed between surface of static valve member and surface of temperature control valve member . As shown in valve retainer includes a plurality of teeth which are engaged by a gear which is coupled to a shaft of a stepper motor . Stepper motor is controlled by controller . Temperature control valve member is held in place relative to valve retainer by a flange and a plurality of holders which snap into recesses in temperature control valve member .

Valve retainer and temperature control valve member each include respective key members see . Key members and prevent the relative rotation of temperature control valve member and valve retainer .

Stepper motor rotates valve retainer to impart a rotation of temperature control valve member thereby adjust an amount of overlap between each of openings A and B relative to recess in flow control valve member . In one embodiment when valve is in an off position openings A and B are completely misaligned with recess when in a full hot position the opening A and B corresponding to the hot input alone is in fluid communication with recess and when in a full cold position the other opening A and B corresponding to the cold input alone is in fluid communication with recess . Openings A and B have a respective first perimeter A and B at surface and a respective second perimeter A and B at surface . In one embodiment the off position is not controlled by the rotation of temperature control valve member or flow control valve member . but rather by a solenoid valve placed between mixing valve and an outlet of spout .

As explained herein flow control valve member is translatable relative to temperature control valve member to adjust the amount of overlap between openings A and B and recess . Referring to a perimeter of recess is shown in phantom in a location corresponding to an off position because neither opening A or B is in fluid communication with recess . As flow control valve member is translated in direction recess begins to overlap the portions of openings A and B which are located in region which corresponds to the lateral extent of recess . As shown in a portion of both openings A and B reside in region . Thus as recess is moved in direction a warm water is provided to output . Further it is easy to see how by rotating temperature control disk in one of directions or the proportion of overlap of both openings A and B is adjusted. Complete control over the temperature and flow rate of water being provided to output is controlled through the interface between temperature control valve member and flow control valve member and the relative locations of each.

Returning to flow control valve member is positioned adjacent to temperature control valve member such that surface of flow control valve member and surface of temperature control valve member form a water tight seal. In one embodiment each of static valve member temperature control valve member and flow control valve member are made of a ceramic composition.

Flow control valve member is retained in place with a second valve retainer . Second valve retainer includes a recess which receives flow control valve member . Second valve retainer further includes a pair of guides illustratively grooves which interact with a pair of guides one shown in on lower valve body member . Guides restrict the movement of valve retainer and hence flow control valve member to directions and shown in . The movement of flow control valve member in direction is limited by a stop provided on lower valve body member . Valve retainer is coupled to a linear stepper motor which moves valve retainer and hence flow control valve in directions and . Stepper motor is controlled by controller .

In one embodiment mixing valve may be used with a conventional manual faucet and positioned above sink deck . In this embodiment temperature control valve member is coupled to a manual input such as a ring member instead of a stepper motor. The ring member is accessible from an exterior of the faucet and may be rotated to rotate temperature control valve member in directions and . In one embodiment the ring member is the valve retainer for temperature control valve member . In one embodiment a plurality of detents are provided to provide feedback to the operator of the position of temperature control valve member . Further in this embodiment flow control valve member is coupled to a manual input such as a slider or a lever instead of stepper motor . The lever or slider moves flow control valve member in directions and .

Returning to a mixing element is positioned in fluid conduit of fitting . Mixing element mixes the water passing through fluid conduit . Further a flow turbine spins as water flows past it and the spinning of flow turbine is detected by a hall effect sensor which provides an indication of the flow rate of the fluid to controller . Further a temperature sensor is positioned in fluid conduit and provides an indication of the temperature of the fluid to controller . Also included in fluid conduit are two check valves A and B which prevent water from reentering mixing valve . In one embodiment one or both of check valves A and B are positioned in spout or a pull out wand portion of spout .

Referring to another exemplary mixing valve is shown. Mixing valve operates in a similar manner to mixing valve except for valve retainer being coupled to a stepper motor through a first gear and a second gear instead of to linear stepper motor . Valve retainer includes teeth which engage gear and convert the rotational motion of gear into a linear motion in directions and . Housing is modified to support stepper motor .

Referring to yet another exemplary mixing valve is shown. Mixing valve includes a similar lower housing as mixing valve . Housing includes inputs A and B which are coupled to sources of water such as a hot water source and a cold water source and an output . Housing includes a recess for receiving a gasket . Gasket like gasket includes openings A and B to surround the openings of inputs A and B and opening to surround output .

Water passing through inputs A and B are communicated to respective openings A and B in a static valve member . Static valve member includes a recess to receive gasket and an opening which is in fluid communication with output . Water is then communicated to a recess is a temperature and flow control valve member . Temperature and flow control valve member is retained in a valve retainer and is rotatable in directions and due to a rotation of valve retainer . T temperature and flow control valve member and valve retainer each include respective key members and which locate temperature and flow control valve member relative to valve retainer and prevent the rotation of temperature and flow control valve member relative to valve retainer .

An upper housing is positioned adjacent to valve retainer and holds temperature and flow control valve member in a fluid tight relationship relative to static valve member . Referring to a gear of valve retainer is engaged with a first gear that is coupled to upper housing which is in turn engaged with a second gear that is coupled to a shaft of a stepper motor . Motor rotates gear which in turn rotates gear which in turn rotates valve retainer and temperature and flow control valve member .

Unlike mixing valves and both of which have generally infinite flow control due to the translation of flow control valve member mixing valve has a low flow setting and a high flow setting which is selected based on the angular orientation of recess .

Referring to mixing valve is shown in an off configuration a low flow configuration and a high flow configuration . Referring to temperature and flow control valve member is shown in an off configuration and recess in temperature and flow control valve member is not in fluid communication with either of openings A or B in static valve member . As such water is not communicated from inputs A and B to output in configuration .

Referring to temperature and flow control valve member is shown in an low flow configuration and a first portion of recess in temperature and flow control valve member is in fluid communication with both of openings A or B in static valve member and in fluid communication with opening in static valve member which is in fluid communication with output . As such water is communicated from inputs A and B to output in configuration . Temperature and flow control valve member is moved to configuration by rotating temperature and flow control valve member in direction from the off configuration . As shown in temperature and flow control valve member receives water from both openings A and B. Thus providing a warm water mixture to output . By rotating temperature and flow control valve member in direction a lesser amount of opening B is in fluid communication with recess . Assuming opening A corresponds to cold water and opening B corresponds to hot water the water communicated to output would be colder than the configuration shown in . By rotating temperature and flow control valve member even further in direction opening B is no longer in fluid communication with recess . This would correspond to a full cold setting for the low flow configuration . By rotating temperature and flow control valve member in direction a lesser amount of opening A is in fluid communication with recess . The water communicated to output would be hotter than the configuration shown in . By rotating temperature and flow control valve member even further in direction opening A is no longer in fluid communication with recess . This would correspond to a full hot setting for the low flow configuration .

Referring to temperature and flow control valve member is shown in an high flow configuration and a second portion of recess in temperature and flow control valve member is in fluid communication with both of openings A or B in static valve member and in fluid communication with opening in static valve member which is in fluid communication with output . As such water is communicated from inputs A and B to output in configuration . Temperature and flow control valve member is moved to configuration by rotating temperature and flow control valve member in direction from the off configuration . As shown in temperature and flow control valve member receives water from both openings A and B. Thus providing a warm water mixture to output . By rotating temperature and flow control valve member in direction a lesser amount of opening B is in fluid communication with recess . The water communicated to output would be colder than the configuration shown in . By rotating temperature and flow control valve member even further in direction opening B is no longer in fluid communication with recess . This would correspond to a full cold setting for the high flow configuration . By rotating temperature and flow control valve member in direction a lesser amount of opening A is in fluid communication with recess . The water communicated to output would be hotter than the configuration shown in . By rotating temperature and flow control valve member even further in direction opening A is no longer in fluid communication with recess . This would correspond to a full hot setting for the high flow configuration .

As shown in first portion of recess overlaps less with openings A and B than second portion in the respective low full configuration and high flow configuration . By having a greater overlap between second portion and openings A and B the flow rate of high flow configuration is higher than the flow rate of low flow configuration .

In one embodiment mixing valve may be used with a conventional manual faucet and positioned above sink deck . In this embodiment temperature and flow control valve member is coupled to a manual input such as a ring member instead of a stepper motor. The ring member is accessible from an exterior of the faucet and may be rotated to rotate temperature and flow control valve member in directions and . In one embodiment the ring member is the valve retainer for temperature and flow control valve member . In one embodiment a plurality of detents are provided to provide feedback to the operator of the position of the off configuration the low flow configuration and the high flow configuration .

Controller includes software to determine the connections made to the inputs of mixing valves disclosed herein. Using mixing valve in as an example controller performs the following installation configuration method . Each mixing valve includes one or more stop surfaces to limit the rotation of the rotatable valve member in each direction. See rib on valve retainer in which interacts with a feature such as a channel on the valve body to limit the rotation of temperature control valve member . One of the limits is intended to correspond to a full hot position and the other of the limits is intended to correspond to a full cold position.

Referring to in the installation configuration method controller moves temperature control valve member to a first limit position as represented in block and measures the temperature of the water in output with temperature sensor as represented by block . Controller then moves temperature control valve member to a second limit position as represented in block and measures the temperature of the water in output with temperature sensor as represented by block . In one embodiment controller waits a first period of time before measuring to allow the water to reach a steady state temperature. Controller then compares the first measured temperature to the second measured temperature as represented by block . If the first measured temperature is higher than the second measured temperature then the first limit position corresponds to a full hot position as represented by block . If not then the second limit position corresponds to a full hot position as represented by block . With the installation configuration method controller an installer is free to hook a hot water source to either of inputs A and B and the cold water source to the other of inputs A and B and controller will compensate for the choice made by the installer.

Although the invention has been described in detail with reference to certain preferred embodiments variations and modifications exist within the spirit and scope of the invention as described and defined in the following claims.

