---

title: Downlink control information (DCI) validation for enhanced physical downlink control channel (ePDCCH)
abstract: Technology for downlink (DL) grant validation is disclosed. One method can include a wireless device receiving from a node a downlink grant masked with a cell radio network temporary identifier (C-RNTI) for a resource allocation (RA) including an enhanced physical downlink control channel (ePDCCH) physical resource block (PRB) carrying the downlink grant. The wireless device can validate a downlink control information (DCI) format of the downlink grant. The at least two UERS ports can be used to transmit two CCEs. The wireless device can determine that the downlink grant is received with a non-matching cyclic redundancy check (CRC) when the DCI format is not validated.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09544876&OS=09544876&RS=09544876
owner: Intel Corporation
number: 09544876
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121005
---
Priority for this continuation in part is claimed from U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 598 320 filed on Aug. 29 2012 which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 612 188 filed Mar. 16 2012 which applications are incorporated by reference in their entirety.

Wireless mobile communication technology uses various standards and protocols to transmit data between a node e.g. a transmission station or a transceiver node and a wireless device e.g. a mobile device . Some wireless devices communicate using orthogonal frequency division multiple access OFDMA in a downlink DL transmission and single carrier frequency division multiple access SC FDMA in an uplink UL transmission. Standards and protocols that use orthogonal frequency division multiplexing OFDM for signal transmission include the third generation partnership project 3GPP long term evolution LTE the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 802.16 standard e.g. 802.16e 802.16m which is commonly known to industry groups as WiMAX Worldwide interoperability for Microwave Access and the IEEE 802.11 standard which is commonly known to industry groups as WiFi.

In 3GPP radio access network RAN LTE systems the node can be a combination of Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network E UTRAN Node Bs also commonly denoted as evolved Node Bs enhanced Node Bs eNodeBs or eNBs and Radio Network Controllers RNCs which communicates with the wireless device known as a user equipment UE . The downlink DL transmission can be a communication from the node e.g. eNodeB to the wireless device e.g. UE and the uplink UL transmission can be a communication from the wireless device to the node.

In LTE data can be transmitted from the eNode B to the UE via a physical downlink shared channel PDSCH . A physical downlink control channel PDCCH can be used to transfer downlink control information DCI that informs the UE about resource allocations or scheduling related to downlink resource assignments on the PDSCH uplink resource grants and uplink power control commands. The PDCCH can be transmitted prior the PDSCH in each subframe transmitted from the eNode B to the UE.

The PDCCH signal can be designed to be demodulated at the UE based on a cell specific reference signal CRS . However the use of a CRS does not take into account the increased complexities of advanced LTE systems. For instance in heterogeneous networks multiple nodes can simultaneously transmit within a single cell. The use of the cell specific reference signal can limit advanced techniques to increase cell capacity.

Reference will now be made to the exemplary embodiments illustrated and specific language will be used herein to describe the same. It will nevertheless be understood that no limitation of the scope of the invention is thereby intended.

Before the present invention is disclosed and described it is to be understood that this invention is not limited to the particular structures process steps or materials disclosed herein but is extended to equivalents thereof as would be recognized by those ordinarily skilled in the relevant arts. It should also be understood that terminology employed herein is used for the purpose of describing particular examples only and is not intended to be limiting. The same reference numerals in different drawings represent the same element. Numbers provided in flow charts and processes are provided for clarity in illustrating steps and operations and do not necessarily indicate a particular order or sequence.

An initial overview of technology embodiments is provided below and then specific technology embodiments are described in further detail later. This initial summary is intended to aid readers in understanding the technology more quickly but is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the technology nor is it intended to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

The communication of data on the physical downlink shared channel PDSCH can be controlled via a control channel referred to as a physical downlink control channel PDCCH . The PDCCH can be used for downlink DL and uplink UL resource assignments transmit power commands and paging indicators. The PDSCH scheduling grant can be designated to a particular wireless device e.g. UE for dedicated PDSCH resource allocation to carry UE specific traffic or it can be designated to all wireless devices in the cell for common PDSCH resource allocation to carry broadcast control information such as system information or paging.

In one example the PDCCH and PDSCH can represent elements of a radio frame structure transmitted on the physical PHY layer in a downlink transmission between a node e.g. eNodeB and the wireless device e.g. UE using a generic 3GPP long term evolution LTE frame structure as illustrated in .

Each slot for a component carrier CC used by the node and the wireless device can include multiple resource blocks RBs and based on the CC frequency bandwidth. The CC can have a carrier frequency having a bandwidth and center frequency. Each subframe of the CC can include downlink control information DCI found in the legacy PDCCH. The legacy PDCCH in the control region can include one to three columns of the first OFDM symbols in each subframe or RB when a legacy PDCCH is used. The remaining 11 to 13 OFDM symbols or 14 OFDM symbols when legacy PDCCH is not used in the subframe may be allocated to the PDSCH for data for short or normal cyclic prefix .

Each RB physical RB or PRB can include 12 15 kHz subcarriers on the frequency axis and or orthogonal frequency division multiplexing OFDM symbols on the time axis per slot. The RB can use seven OFDM symbols if a short or normal cyclic prefix is employed. The RB can use six OFDM symbols if an extended cyclic prefix is used. The resource block can be mapped to 84 resource elements REs using short or normal cyclic prefixing or the resource block can be mapped to 72 REs not shown using extended cyclic prefixing. The RE can be a unit of one OFDM symbol by one subcarrier i.e. 15 kHz .

Each RE can transmit two bits and of information in the case of quadrature phase shift keying QPSK modulation. Other types of modulation may be used such as 16 quadrature amplitude modulation QAM or 64 QAM to transmit a greater number of bits in each RE or bi phase shift keying BPSK modulation to transmit a lesser number of bits a single bit in each RE. The RB can be configured for a downlink transmission from the eNodeB to the UE or the RB can be configured for an uplink transmission from the UE to the eNodeB.

Each wireless device may use at least one bandwidth. The bandwidth may be referred to as a signal bandwidth carrier bandwidth or component carrier CC bandwidth as illustrated in . For example the LTE CC bandwidths can include 1.4 MHz 3 MHz 5 MHz 10 MHz 15 MHz and 20 MHz . The 1.4 MHz CC can include 6 RBs comprising 72 subcarriers. The 3 MHz CC can include 15 RBs comprising 180 subcarriers. The 5 MHz CC can include 25 RBs comprising 300 subcarriers. The 10 MHz CC can include 50 RBs comprising 600 subcarriers. The 15 MHz CC can include 75 RBs comprising 900 subcarriers. The 20 MHz CC can include 100 RBs comprising 1200 subcarriers.

The data carried on the PDCCH can be referred to as downlink control information DCI . Multiple wireless devices can be scheduled in one subframe of a radio frame. Therefore multiple DCI messages can be sent using multiple PDCCHs. The DCI information in a PDCCH can be transmitted using one or more control channel elements CCE . A CCE can be comprised of a group of resource element groups REGs . A legacy CCE can include up to nine REGs. Each REG can be comprised of four resource elements REs . Each resource element can include two bits of information when quadrature modulation is used. Therefore a legacy CCE can include up to 72 bits of information. When more than 72 bits of information are needed to convey the DCI message multiple CCEs can be employed. The use of multiple CCEs can be referred to as an aggregation level. In one example the aggregation levels can be defined as 1 2 4 or 8 consecutive CCEs allocated to one PDCCH.

The legacy PDCCH can create limitations to advances made in other areas of wireless communication. For example mapping of CCEs to subframes in OFDM symbols is typically spread over the control region to provide frequency diversity. However no beam forming diversity may be possible with the current mapping procedures.

Moreover the capacity of the legacy PDCCH may not be sufficient for advanced control signaling. For instance networks may be configured as heterogeneous networks HetNets that can include a number of different kinds of nodes in a single macro cell serving area. More wireless devices can be served simultaneously by macro and pico cells in the HetNet. The PDCCH can be designed to demodulate based on cell specific reference signals CRS which can make fully exploring cell splitting gain difficult. The legacy PDCCH may not be adequate to convey the information needed to allow a wireless device to take advantage of the multiple transmission nodes in the HetNet to increase bandwidth and decrease battery usage at the wireless device.

In addition an increased capacity in the PDCCH can be useful in the use of multi user multiple input multiple output MU MIMO machine to machine communication M2M PDSCH transmission in a multicast broadcast single frequency network and cross carrier scheduling. The use of UE specific reference signals UERS in PDCCH demodulation at the wireless device can allow the use of multiple nodes in the HetNet. Rather than relying on a single common reference symbol e.g. CRS for an entire cell each reference symbol can be UE specific e.g. UERS .

To overcome the limitations of the legacy PDCCH an enhanced PDCCH ePDCCH can use the REs in an entire PRB or PRB pair where a PRB pair is two contiguous PRBs using the same subcarrier s subframe instead of just the first one to three columns of OFDM symbols in a first slot PRB in a subframe as in the legacy PDCCH. Accordingly the ePDCCH can be configured with increased capacity to allow advances in the design of cellular networks and to minimize currently known challenges and limitations.

Unlike the legacy PDCCH the ePDCCH can be mapped to the same REs or region in a PRB as the PDSCH but in different PRBs. In an example the PDSCH and the ePDCCH may not be multiplexed within a same PRB or a same PRB pair . Thus if one PRB or one PRB pair contains an ePDCCH the unused REs in the PRB or PRB pair may be blanked since the REs may not be used for the PDSCH.

The PRB or PRB pair can be used to support both localized ePDCCH and distributed ePDCCH transmissions. illustrate localized ePDCCH and distributed ePDCCH in a slot or a subframe. In a localized ePDCCH the entire CCE may be within a PRB and or PRB pair within a subband and as illustrated in . In an example the REGs or REs of the localized CCE can be contiguous to each other which may be followed by a subsequent CCE. In a distributed ePDCCH the REGs and of the CCE can be distributed over multiple PRBs and or PRB pairs . The REG s in one PRB and the REG s in another PRB can form the CCE for the DCI or the distributed ePDCCH. In distributed ePDCCH the REGs for a CCE can be distributed over two or more PRBs or two or more PRB pairs . In an example the REGs of the CCEs used in the distributed ePDCCH can be distributed over different subbands and

A localized ePDCCH having aggregation level AGL one can be mapped to a single CCE which can be mapped to a single RB as shown in . Similarly a localized ePDCCH with an aggregation level of two may be mapped to two contiguous CCEs in a RB. For a distributed ePDCCH and the CCE s e.g. CCE and CCE N can mapped to a plurality of REGs in different RBs in different frequency carriers and subcarriers. For example the REGs for the CCE N can be distributed in frequency. The frequency separation of the REGs can provide a frequency diversity gain. In an example each REG in a CCE may be mapped to a separate RB although more than one REG may be mapped to a same RB as another REG. A greater frequency diversity gain that can occur with widely distributed the REGs. The REGs in CCE and CCE N may have the same distribution shown or different distribution not shown amongst RBs in a subframe. While the REGs illustrated in the distributed ePDCCH and are each shown to be in the same time position within a RB for each respective CCE a same time position within a RB for the distributed ePDCCH is not required. The distributed REGs in CCE and CCE N may be in a different temporal location within a resource block. Each CCE in a subframe may have a same number of REGs or a different number of REGs. The distributed ePDCCH can have an aggregation level of one. The aggregation level of one implies that the DCI information can be mapped to a single CCE.

The distribution of the REGs in a CCE over frequency to different resource blocks in a subframe can provide an increase in frequency diversity gain. illustrates a distributed ePDCCH and transmission.

In another example when the ePDCCH has an aggregation level greater than one e.g. aggregation level 2 4 or 8 the CCE can include localized CCE or distributed CCEs. A localized CCE can be CCEs for an ePDCCH with an aggregation level greater than one that are contiguous to each other which may be followed by a subsequent CCE in time or frequency. A distributed CCE can be CCEs for an ePDCCH with an aggregation level greater than one that are non contiguous or CCEs distributed over multiple PRBs or PRB pairs .

In another configuration the localized ePDCCH and distributed ePDCCH can be multiplexed in one PRB pair in one subframe. Referring back to different DCIs can be frequency division multiplexed FDM in a same PRB pair across two slots of a subframe. In an example antenna ports and or can be used in one PRB pair. In another example one PRB pair can be divided into four CCEs to carry four DCIs with AGL as shown in . Each UERS port can be associated with one CCE for demodulation and or channel estimation. In an example two CCEs e.g. DCIs can share two UERS antenna ports and .

CCE level frequency domain multiplexing can be used between localized CCEs and distributed CCEs as previously illustrated in . The localized ePDCCH and distributed ePDCCH can use different transmission modes. For example the localized ePDCCH can use beamforming and the distributed ePDCCH can use transmit diversity. Since at least two UERS ports may be needed for transmit diversity different transmission schemes may be used when a different number of distributed CCEs are used in one PRB pair.

For example when one CCE is reserved for distributed ePDCCH transmission e.g. Tx diversity in one PRB pair the other CCEs can be reserved for localized ePDCCH transmission. To illustrate the concept further beamforming can applied on three UERS ports e.g. UERS ports for localized transmission and only one UERS port e.g. UERS port may be available for transmit diversity transmission. Since at least two UERS ports may be needed for transmit diversity a wireless device can estimate a downlink channel by monitoring UERS port and another UERS port X used for localized transmission. A precoding vector w can be used by antenna port x. To provide minimal interference from the localized ePDCCH transmission the precoding vector applied to UERS port for the distributed ePDCCH transmission can be orthogonal to the precoding vector w. The precoding vector for the one UERS port e.g. UERS port used for the distributed ePDCCH transmission can be represented by orth w where orth w is a precoding vector that is orthogonal to w. In an example the precoding vectors w and orth w can be included in a codebook for spatial multiplexing e.g. beamforming and correspond to a feedback report such as a precoding matrix indicator PMI a rank indicator RI or a channel quality indicator CQI .

Using as an illustration DCI can be transmitted in a distributed ePDCCH and DCI DCI and DCI can be transmitted in localized ePDCCHs. The CCE of DCI can be precoded with precoding vector w and DCI can be precoded with precoding vector orth w .

In another example where two or more CCEs are used for distributed ePDCCH transmission in one PRB pair any two UERS ports e.g. UERS ports and or associated with the CCEs used for distributed ePDCCH transmission can be used for transmit Tx diversity. The remaining CCEs in the PRB pair used for localized ePDCCH transmission can be transmitted using beamforming.

Using as an illustration DCI and DCI can be transmitted in a distributed ePDCCH where UERS ports and are associated with DCIs and and DCI and DCI can be transmitted in localized ePDCCHs where UERS ports and are associated with DCIs and . If three CCEs are used for distributed ePDCCH transmission in one PRB pair one CCE can be used for localized ePDCCH transmission. For example DCI DCI and DCI can be transmitted in a distributed ePDCCH where UERS ports and are associated with DCIs and and DCI can be transmitted in localized ePDCCHs where UERS port is associated with DCI . The distributed ePDCCH s and localized ePDCCH s can use any UERS port number.

Transmit diversity can include the use of two or more physically separate transmit antennas for signal transmission. Transmit diversity can be a type of antenna diversity also known as space diversity which two or more antennas can be used to improve the quality and reliability of a wireless link. Often especially in urban and indoor environments no clear line of sight LOS between transmitter and receiver may exist. Instead the signal may be reflected along multiple paths before finally being received. Each of bounce of the signal reflection can introduce phase shifts time delays attenuations and or distortions that can destructively interfere with one another at an aperture of the receiving antenna. Antenna diversity or transmit diversity can be effective at mitigating multipath interference.

Beamforming also referred to as spatial multiplexing or spatial filtering can be a signal processing technique used in antenna arrays for directional signal transmission or reception. Beamforming can be achieved by combining elements in the array in such a way that signals at particular angles experience constructive interference while others experience destructive interference. Beamforming can be used in transmission or reception to achieve spatial selectivity. Beamforming can improve an array gain which can be a concentration of energy in one or more given directions via precoding. Beamforming can allow multiple users located in different directions to be served simultaneously e.g. multi user MIMO . In LTE UERS can be used to enable a wireless device to demodulate beamformed data coherently. For example an eNodeB may use a correlated array of physical antenna elements to generate a narrow beam in the direction of a particular UE. Such a beam can experience a different channel response between the eNodeB and UE thus UE specific RSs UERS can be used to enable the UE to demodulate the beamformed data coherently. For closed loop beamforming a wireless device can provide feedback based on the received channel including the UERS. The feedback can include a precoding matrix indicator PMI a rank indicator RI or a channel quality indicator CQI . Open loop beamforming can have limited feedback relative to closed loop beamforming.

The use of ePDCCH can also modify PDCCH validation for semi persistent scheduling SPS . SPS enables radio resources to be semi statically configured and allocated to a wireless device for a longer time period than one subframe avoiding the need for specific downlink assignment messages or uplink grant messages over the PDCCH for each subframe. SPS can be useful for services such as voice over internet protocol VoIP for which the data packets are small periodic and semi static in size. For services like VoIP the timing and amount of radio resources needed for transmissions can be predictable. Thus the overhead of the PDCCH e.g. ePDCCH can be significantly reduced compared to dynamic scheduling. SPS can be configured by upper layer signaling such as radio resource control RRC signaling which can indicate the interval at which the radio resources are periodically assigned.

A semi persistent scheduling SPS cell radio network temporary identifier C RNTI can be used in SPS. The SPS C RNTI of the scheduling messages can be transmitted on the PDCCH for semi persistently scheduled PDSCH data transmissions. The SPS C RNTI allows the wireless device e.g. UE to differentiate SPS messages from dynamic scheduling messages identified by a C RNTI. The identifier i.e. SPS C RNTI can be transmitted as a scrambling code applied to the cyclic redundancy check CRC of the PDCCH transmission. Dynamic scheduling can provide downlink assignment messages for an allocation of downlink transmission resources and uplink grant messages for the allocation of uplink transmission resources which can be valid for specific single subframes. Dynamic scheduling can be efficient for bursty and dynamic rate traffic such as transmission control protocol TCP and signaling radio bearer SRB service types.

Cyclic redundancy check CRC can be an error detecting code appended to a block of data to be transmitted. The value of the CRC can be calculated from the block of data. The length of the CRC can determine the number of errors which can be detected in the block of data on reception of the data. A CRC may not be able to correct errors or determine which bits are erroneous.

Because an activation of SPS can take longer than dynamic scheduling the CRC e.g. virtual CRC used in SPS can generate CRC false positives which can be much more harmful than dynamic scheduling. So as a result additional PDCCH validation procedures can be used for SPS C RNTI masked scheduling. A false positive error can be a result that indicates a given condition has been fulfilled when the condition actually has not been fulfilled. For example a false positive can occur when the CRC should generate an error but does not generate an error.

Various differences exist between the ePDCCH and the legacy PDCCH. One difference between ePDCCH and the legacy PDCCH is that ePDCCH can be FDM with the PDSCH with a PRB granularity as illustrated in but the legacy PDCCH can be time division multiplexed TDM with PDSCH with OFDM symbol granularity as illustrated in . The difference between the ePDCCH and the legacy PDCCH can be utilized to create additional PDCCH validation for SPS C RNTI masked scheduling.

A wireless device can determine the PRB pairs configured for ePDCCH before receiving ePDCCH transmitted DCIs. In an example the wireless device can determine the PRB pairs configured for ePDCCH via high layer signaling such as RRC signaling. In an example the ePDCCH and the PDSCH can be frequency division multiplexed FDM at a PRB pair level. illustrates different DCIs FDM in one PRB pair. In another example the PDSCH and the ePDCCH may not be multiplexed within a same PRB or a same PRB pair so ePDCCH and PDSCH may not exist in a same PRB pair.

Resource allocation signaling in the DCI can indicate which PRBs are allocated to PDSCH. If ePDCCH PRBs are not allowed for PDSCH transmission the wireless device can detect an incorrect DCI if the resource allocation signaling still indicates ePDCCH PRB for a PDSCH transmission. In legacy PDCCH since the granularity is OFDM symbol based instead of PRB based and resource allocation is based on PRB a check of the DCI may not be needed for the legacy PDCCH.

In an example the PDCCH validation for SPS C RNTI masked scheduling can include the wireless device performing an additional validation for ePDCCH carried DCIs. For example if a DCI uses resource allocation RA type 0 resource block group RBG based scheduling and if the PDSCH allocation contains one RBG which includes or overlaps with a PRB where the ePDCCH is transmitted the wireless device can exclude or deduct at least one ePDCCH PRB from the PDSCH PRB resource allocation. In one option the wireless device can exclude the ePDCCH PRBs e.g. ePDCCH PRB pairs for the wireless device from a PDSCH PRB allocation. In another option the wireless device can exclude all the ePDCCH PRBs e.g. ePDCCH PRB pairs for all wireless devices in a same subframe from a PDSCH PRB allocation. In other words the wireless device can exclude all PRB pairs configured for ePDCCH in the same subframe where ePDCCH is transmitted.

In resource allocations of type 0 a bitmap can indicates the resource block groups RBGs which can be allocated to a scheduled wireless device where an RBG can be a set of consecutive PRBs in frequency. The RBG size P can be a function of the downlink system bandwidth N. The RBG size P can be the number of PRBs within a RBG. In an example the total number of RBGs Nfor downlink system bandwidth of Nis given by N N P . For a downlink system bandwidth of 10 PRBs or less e.g. 1.4 MHz the RBG size P can be one PRB per RBG. For a downlink system bandwidth of 11 26 PRBs e.g. 3 or 5 MHz the RBG size P can be two PRBs per RBG. For a downlink system bandwidth of 27 63 PRBs e.g. 10 MHz the RBG size P can be three PRBs per group. For a downlink system bandwidth of 64 110 PRBs e.g. 15 or 20 MHz the RBG size P can be four PRBs per RBG.

In another example if a DCI uses RA type 1 PRB based scheduling and if the PDSCH allocation contains one PRB which includes or overlaps with a PRB where the ePDCCH is transmitted the wireless device can exclude or deduct at least one ePDCCH PRB from the PDSCH PRB resource allocation. In one option the wireless device can exclude the ePDCCH PRBs e.g. ePDCCH PRB pairs for the wireless device from a PDSCH PRB allocation. In another option the wireless device can exclude all the ePDCCH PRBs e.g. ePDCCH PRB pairs for all wireless devices in a same subframe from a PDSCH PRB allocation.

In resource allocations of type 1 individual PRBs can be addressed within a subset of the PRBs available. The bitmap used for RA type 1 can be slightly smaller than for RA type 0 since some bits can be used to indicate which subset of the RBG is addressed and a shift in the position of the bitmap. The total number of bits including additional flags used for the indications described can be similar to the bit used for RA type 0. RA type 1 can provide flexibility in spreading resources across the frequency domain to exploit frequency diversity and also allocate resources in the granularity of one PRB.

Similar to RA type 0 and RA type 1 if a DCI uses RA type 2 contiguous PRB based scheduling and if the PDSCH allocation contains one or more PRB which includes or overlaps with PRBs where the ePDCCH is transmitted the wireless device can exclude or deduct at least one ePDCCH PRB from the PDSCH PRB resource allocation. In one option the wireless device can exclude the ePDCCH PRBs e.g. ePDCCH PRB pairs for the wireless device from a PDSCH PRB allocation. In another option the wireless device can exclude all the ePDCCH PRBs e.g. ePDCCH PRB pairs for all wireless devices in a same subframe from a PDSCH PRB allocation.

In resource allocations of type 2 the resource allocation information indicates a contiguous set of PRBs using either localized or distributed mapping as indicated by a 1 bit flag in the resource allocation message. PRB allocations may vary from a single PRB up to a maximum number of PRBs spanning the downlink system bandwidth.

In another example a specification such as the LTE specification can restrict that an ePDCCH PRB may not be used for PDSCH transmission or used in a PDSCH allocation which can allow for an additional validation because the wireless device can verify if ePDCCH PRB is included in resource allocation signaling in DCI.

In another configuration when RA type 0 RA type 1 and RA is used a wireless device can restrict an ePDCCH PRB being used in the RA. In an example an ePDCCH PRB for the wireless device may not be in the PDSCH PRBs allocated to the wireless device. In another example all the ePDCCH PRBs may not be allowed to be in the PDSCH PRBs allocated or transmitted as a PDSCH.

If the ePDCCH validation is achieved the wireless device can consider the received DCI information accordingly as a valid semi persistent activation or release. If the ePDCCH validation is not achieved the received DCI format can be considered by the wireless device as having been received with a non matching CRC.

Since ePDCCH and PDSCH may not be permitted to co exist in the same PRB pair and if the wireless device e.g. UE receives a DL grant allocating multiple PRB pairs which contains the ePDCCH PRB pairs those ePDCCH PRB pairs can be rate matched from the PDSCH transmission. The DCI may be assumed to be C RNTI masked.

Rate matching RM can be a process that adapts the code rate of data transmissions such that the number of information and parity bits to be transmitted matches a resource allocation. In an example the RM process can use a circular buffer to either repeat bits to decrease the code rate or puncture bits to increase the code rate.

When RA type 1 signaling is used to allocate PDSCH and because RA type 1 can allocate PRBs with one PRB granularity allocating PRBs containing the DL grant e.g. PDCCH as PDSCH PRBs as illustrated in can result in the same transmitted PDSCH PRBs as not allocating those PRBs containing the DL grant e.g. PDCCH as illustrated in .

For example in a node e.g. eNB uses RA type 1 to allocate six PRBs as PDSCH PRBs and two PRBs overlap with ePDCCH PRBs . Thus the wireless device can rate match around or exclude the two ePDCCH PRBs and the final PRBs used for PDSCH transmission can be four PRBs RBG and and excluding PRBs and .

In the node uses RA type 1 to allocate four PRBs as PDSCH PRBs and no PRBs are overlapping with ePDCCH PRBs from where wireless device receives the DL grant. Thus the effective PRBs used for PDSCH can be the same in both . Therefore the wireless device behavior when receiving RA type 1 which allocates PRBs containing the DL grant can be defined e.g. the allocation including the DL grant PRBs or the allocation excluding the DL grant PRBs .

Similarly when the wireless device receives RA type 0 allocating one RBG and the ePDCCH carrying the DL grant spans all the PRBs in the RBG the wireless device behavior can also be defined. For example illustrates a node using RA type 0 to allocate three RBGs as PDSCH PRBs and one of the ePDCCH which carries the DL grant spans one of the RBGs or . The RA type 0 allocation illustrated in can occur less frequently than RA type 1 allocation illustrated in because RA type 0 is allocated to PRBs by RBGs using a bitmap.

For RA type 2 when the node allocates PDSCH PRBs using ePDCCH PRBs for a start PRB index and an end PRB index the wireless device behavior can be defined for the starting and ending PRBs using ePDCCH PRBs. For example illustrates a node allocating 10 PRBs as PDSCH PRBs for using RA type 2. The starting two PRBs and the ending one PRB overlaps with ePDCCH PRBs which contains the DL grant.

In an example when the wireless device e.g. UE receives a DL grant masked with C RNTI having RA type 0 1 or 2 which contains ePDCCH PRBs that carries the DL grant as shown in respectively the received DL grant format can be considered by the wireless device as having been received with a non matching CRC.

In another example the wireless device e.g. UE receives a DL grant masked with C RNTI having RA type 1 and RA type 0 with RBG size equal to one 1 PRB the DL grant format can be considered by the wireless device as having been received with a matching CRC under some scenarios.

For example the ePDCCH containing the DL grant can fall in the same precoding resource block group PRG as the PDSCH. If ePDCCH uses localized transmission the node can apply the same beamforming weights to ePDCCH and a first layer of PDSCH. For the ePDCCH containing the DL grant and the PDSCH in the same PRG the wireless device can use both UERS and the decoded ePDCCH in the ePDCCH PRB as additional decoding RS to decode the PDSCH in the same PRG. Significant system performance gain can be achieved in for the ePDCCH and the PDSCH in the same PRG. The node may use different multi user multiple input multiple output MU MIMO transmissions for ePDCCH and PDSCH which can cause a power ratio between UERS in ePDCCH PRB and UERS in PDSCH PRB unknown to the wireless device. Though blind decoding can be used additional signaling e.g. RRC signaling can reduce the implementation complexity of accounting for the ePDCCH and the PDSCH in the same PRG. In an example after receiving such a DL grant and the allocated PDSCH PRBs overlaps with ePDCCH PRBs the wireless device may assume the same precoding vector apply to ePDCCH UERS and the first layer of PDSCH.

The following provides additional details on the ePDCCH containing the DL grant and the PDSCH in the same PRG. The PRBs within the PRG can use a same precoder or a same precoding matrix. A precoding vector for ePDCCH UERS can be orthogonal to a precoding vector for PDSCH UERS. In an example the precoder can provide for transmit beamforming and power allocation across the transmitted streams. The PRG size can vary based on the system bandwidth similar to the RBG size. The PRG size can be the number of PRBs within a PRB bundle or PRG. For a system bandwidth of less than 10 PRBs e.g. 1.4 MHz the PRG size P can be one PRB per group. For a system bandwidth of 11 26 PRBs e.g. 3 or 5 MHz or 64 110 PRBs e.g. 15 or 20 MHz the PRG size P can be two PRBs per group. For a system bandwidth of 27 63 PRBs e.g. 10 MHz the PRG size P can be three PRBs per group.

In another example the node e.g. eNB can transmit to multiple wireless devices via a MU MIMO mode which can be transparent to a wireless device e.g. the spatial multiplexing capacity on the PDSCH can be unknown to the wireless device even after DCI decoding . With the MU MIMO mode a reference signal RS power imbalance can occur between the ePDCCH PRB and the PDSCH PRB even when the wireless device detects that both the ePDCCH and the PDSCH are transmitted with a same rank. The rank of the transmission can be the number of layers transmitted. A layer can be number of different data streams generated by spatial multiplexing where each data stream can be transmitted on a transmit antenna of the node.

In an example when MU MIMO is applied the node can indicate to the wireless device to exclude the ePDCCH PRB from the PRG. The indication to exclude the ePDCCH PRB from PRG can be transmitted to the wireless device via radio resource control RRC signaling. Alternatively the node can de boost the power of UERS in ePDCCH PRB for MU MIMO to keep a similar energy per resource element EPRE ratio between the UERS in ePDCCH PRB and the UERS in PDSCH PRB. The power of the UERS in ePDCCH PRB can be de boosted by a power offset .

Like MU MIMO random beamforming or closed loop beamforming can be transparent to the wireless device. The wireless device can apply the PRG to the ePDCCH PRB and the PDSCH PRB for random or closed loop beamforming when the node uses a same precoding vector for the ePDCCH PRB as the PDSCH PRB. When the node uses different precoding vectors between the ePDCCH PRB and the PDSCH PRB the node can transmit an indication to the wireless device to exclude ePDCCH PRB from the PRG process and the wireless device can exclude ePDCCH PRB from the PRG.

In another example transmit diversity can be used for ePDCCH transmission containing the DL grant. The wireless device can apply PRG to the ePDCCH transmitted with transmit diversity and the PDSCH transmitted with beamforming. The wireless device can apply PRG to the ePDCCH PRB and the PDSCH PRB for transmit diversity and or beamforming when the node uses a same precoding vector for the ePDCCH PRB as the PDSCH PRB. When the node uses different precoding vectors between the ePDCCH PRB and the PDSCH PRB the node can transmit an indication to the wireless device to exclude ePDCCH PRB from the PRG process and the wireless device can exclude ePDCCH PRB from the PRG.

In an example the ePDCCH containing the DL or UL grant can fall in a same precoding within the assigned eCCEs to a wireless device e.g. UE . When the wireless device attempts blind decoding for ePDCCH detection the wireless device can assume a same precoding matrix is applied within an eCCE aggregation level. In particular this invention can be applied to localized ePDCCH transmission. If the aggregation level for the wireless device is 8 with localized ePDCCH transmission the node e.g. eNB can apply the same precoding matrix for those 8 eCCEs and the wireless device can assume the same precoding matrix for those 8 eCCEs in blind decoding attempts so that the wireless device can enhance the channel estimation performance in ePDCCH detection by applying channel estimation window within up to the 8 eCCE indices.

For semi persistent scheduling SPS the ePDCCH PRB s can include SPS activate DL grant. The SPS activate can initiate the SPS until the SPS is released for the wireless device. During SPS additional subsequent DL grants may not be needed by the wireless device.

In a configuration when the wireless device receives SPS activate DL grant masked with SPS C RNTI in subframes having RA type 0 1 or 2 which contain ePDCCH PRBs that carries a DL grant as shown in respectively the wireless device can validate or invalidate the SPS activate DL grant format sent. illustrates the ePDCCH PRBs which carries the DL grant spanning at least one of the RBGs or for RA type 0. illustrates the PDSCH PRB allocation for RA type 1 with ePDCCH PRBs which carries the DL grant included within the PDSCH PRB allocation. illustrates the PDSCH PRB allocation for RA type 2 using ePDCCH PRBs which carries the DL grant for a start PRB index or an end PRB index

In a first example option a when the wireless device receives SPS activate DL grant masked with SPS C RNTI the received DL grant format can be considered by the wireless device as having been received with a non matching CRC e.g. invalid for RA type 0 1 or 2 as illustrated in and respectively . In a second example option b when the wireless device receives SPS activate DL grant masked with SPS C RNTI the received DL grant format can be considered by the wireless device as a valid SPS activate DL grant and the wireless device can perform PDSCH rate matching around the PRBs containing the DL grant i.e. the PDSCH PRBs can be rate matched in the same subframe to the ePDCCH PRBs containing the DL grant for RA type 0 1 or 2 as illustrated in respectively.

The wireless device can be configured with for a SPS activate DL grant and other ePDCCH PRBs in a same subframe. Alternatively the wireless device may not be configured with for a SPS activate DL grant and other ePDCCH PRBs in the same subframe.

If the second example option b above is selected and when the wireless device receives a SPS PDSCH scheduled by a configured DL assignment or previous SPS activate DL grant for RA type 0 1 or 2 as illustrated in respectively which contains ePDCCH PRBs that carries the DL grant at least three sub options can occur. A first sub option option b can be that the ePDCCH PRBs containing the original SPS activate DL grant can be considered i.e. treated as PDSCH PRBs for validation purposes if option b is selected in the subframe when SPS activate DL grant is received and if the wireless device is configured with ePDCCH PRBs in the same subframe. A second sub option option b can be that the ePDCCH PRBs containing the original SPS activate DL grant can be rate matched from the PDSCH PRBs i.e. i.e. the ePDCCH PRBs containing the original SPS activate DL grant can be rate matched in the same subframe to the PDSCH PRBs if option b is selected in the subframe when SPS activate DL grant is received and if the wireless device is configured with ePDCCH PRBs in the same subframe. In option b the wireless device can rate match the PRBs or treat the PRBs as rate matched in the first SPS activate subframe though the node may not actually use those PRBs to transmit a grant DL or UL to any wireless device.

A third sub option option b can be that the ePDCCH PRBs containing the original SPS activate DL grant can be considered as i.e. treated PDSCH PRBs for validation purposes if option b is selected in the subframe when SPS activate DL grant is received and if the wireless device is not configured with ePDCCH PRBs in the same subframe.

The wireless device e.g. UE behavior when receiving UL grant in subframes when the wireless device receives a PDSCH without a corresponding ePDCCH i.e. SPS PDSCH which is configured by a corresponding recent SPS activation DCI can also be defined. For example in the subframes when the wireless device receives a PDSCH without a corresponding ePDCCH configured by a corresponding most recent SPS activation DCI the wireless device may not expect to receive a UL grant of ePDCCH in any of the PRBs for the PDSCH without a corresponding ePDCCH or the wireless device may skip the blind decoding attempt of a UL grant for the aggregation levels which contain any of the PRBs for the PDSCH without a corresponding ePDCCH. However when the wireless device detects a DL assignment in a user equipment UE search space for the wireless device in the subfame with the configured SPS PDSCH PRBs i.e. SPS PDSCH can be overridden by DL assignments to the wireless device the wireless device may expect to receive a UL grant of ePDCCH in any of the SPS PDSCH PRBs or the wireless device may not skip the blind decoding attempt of a UL grant for aggregation levels which contain any of the SPS PDSCH PRBs.

The following considers some examples of RA type 0 1 and 2 not illustrated by . For the ePDCCH PRBs which carries the DL grant that do not span i.e. fill at least one of the RBGs for RA type 0 the DL grant format can be considered by the wireless device as having been received with a matching CRC. For the RA type 1 where the ePDCCH PRBs which carries the DL grant is excluded from the PDSCH PRB allocation the DL grant format can be considered by the wireless device as having been received with a matching CRC. When the PDSCH PRB allocation for RA type 2 does not use the ePDCCH PRBs which carries the DL grant for either a start PRB index or an end PRB index the DL grant format can be considered by the wireless device as having been received with a matching CRC.

Another example provides a method for downlink DL grant validation as shown in the flow chart in . The method may be executed as instructions on a machine where the instructions are included on at least one computer readable medium or one non transitory machine readable storage medium. The method includes the operation of receiving from a node a downlink grant masked with a cell radio network temporary identifier C RNTI for a resource allocation RA including an enhanced physical downlink control channel ePDCCH physical resource block PRB carrying the downlink grant as in block . The operation of validating a downlink control information DCI format of the downlink grant follows as in block . The next operation of the method can be determining that the downlink grant is received with a non matching cyclic redundancy check CRC when the DCI format is not validated as in block .

In an example the operation of validating the DCI format can validate the DCI format when RA type 0 or RA type 1 has a resource block group RBG size equal to one PRB. In a configuration the method can further include decoding ePDCCH user equipment specific reference signal UERS and the PDSCH UERS using a same precoding matrix where a precoding vector for ePDCCH UERS is orthogonal to a precoding vector for another ePDCCH UERS in a same PRB. The same precoding vector can be applied for both ePDCCH and a first layer of PDSCH in the same PRB bundling window when the DCI allocates PRBs excluded from PDSCH decoding and the node avoided allocating the excluded PRBs in RA signaling. Stated another way if the DCI is allocating PRBs which the UE needs to exclude from PDSCH decoding and eNB can avoid allocating those PRBs in the RA signaling the UE can assume the same precoding vector is applied for both ePDCCH and the first layer of PDSCH in the same PRB bundling window. The method can further include Demodulating one ePDCCH using one UERS antenna port X and demodulating another ePDCCH using two UERS antenna ports X and Y. The one ePDCCH can be localized and the another ePDCCH can be distributed. The UERS antenna ports X and Y can belong to a same code division multiplexing CDM group.

In a configuration the downlink grant can be a semi persistent scheduling SPS activate downlink grant and the SPS activate downlink grant can be masked with an SPS C RNTI. In an example the operation of validating the DCI format can fail i.e. DCI format can be invalid for RA type 0 RA type 1 and RA type 2. In another example the operation of validating the DCI format can validate the DCI format and the method can further comprise the operation of physical downlink shared channel PDSCH rate matching to the PRBs including the SPS activate downlink grant. The method can further include decoding the ePDCCH PRB as a PDSCH PRB or the method can further include rate matching the ePDCCH PRB including the SPS activate downlink grant from PDSCH PRBs.

In another example the operation of validating the DCI format can fail when an uplink grant is included in a semi persistent scheduling SPS physical downlink shared channel PDSCH PRB of the resource allocation.

Another example provides a method to receive a physical downlink shared channel PDSCH physical resource block PRB resource allocation RA as shown in the flow chart in . The method may be executed as instructions on a machine where the instructions are included on at least one computer readable medium or one non transitory machine readable storage medium. The method includes the operation of receiving from a node a PDSCH PRB resource allocation wherein an enhanced physical downlink control channel ePDCCH is in a resource block group RBG or contiguous PRBs associated with the PDSCH PRB resource allocation as in block . The operation of excluding the at least one ePDCCH PRB from the PDSCH PRB resource allocation so the at least one ePDCCH PRB is not part of the PDSCH PRB resource allocation follows as in block .

The resource allocation type for the resource allocation can include RA type 0 resource block group RBG based scheduling RA type 1 PRB based scheduling using virtual resource blocks VRBs or RA type 2 contiguous PRB based scheduling using VRBs. The at least one ePDCCH PRB can include at least one of a localized ePDCCH and a distributed ePDCCH. The at least one ePDCCH PRB can include a PRB pair. The PRB pair can be two continuous PRBs using the same subcarriers in a subframe.

Another example provides a method for uplink UL grant validation as shown in the flow chart in . The method may be executed as instructions on a machine where the instructions are included on at least one computer readable medium or one non transitory machine readable storage medium. The method includes the operation of receiving from a node at a wireless device a semi persistent scheduling SPS activation downlink control information DCI wherein cyclic redundancy check CRC bits for an enhanced physical downlink control channel ePDCCH is masked with a SPS cell radio network temporary identifier C RNTI as in block . The operation of receiving from a node a physical downlink shared channel PDSCH without a corresponding enhanced physical downlink control channel ePDCCH in a subframe follows as in block . The next operation of the method can be validating an uplink grant in a physical resource block PRB for the PDSCH without the corresponding ePDCCH as in block .

In an example the operation of validating the uplink grant can further include Being aware of no UL grant and skipping a blind decode for the UL grant in the PRB for the PDSCH without the corresponding ePDCCH when the wireless device does not detect an ePDCCH downlink DL assignment in the subframe. In another configuration the operation of validating the uplink grant can further include Detecting an ePDCCH downlink DL assignment in a common or user equipment UE search space for the wireless device in the subfame and blind decoding of the UL grant including the PDSCH PRB without the corresponding ePDCCH.

In an example the PRB pair can include one distributed CCE and at least three localized CCE. A precoding vector w for beamforming can be applied to a UERS port for one of the localized CCE and a precoding vector orth w for transmit diversity can be applied to a UERS port for the distributed CCE. The precoding vector orth w can be orthogonal to the precoding vector w and w and orth w can each be an N 1 vector where Nindicates the number of node transmit antennas. The precoder can be configured to precode the localized CCE with precoding vector w and the distributed CCE with precoding vector orth w . The transceiver module can be configured to transmit the localized CCE and the distributed CCE using at least two UERS ports.

In another example the PRB pair can include at least two distributed CCE and at least one localized CCE. The precoder can be configured to precode the at least two distributed CCEs using at least two precoding vectors for transmit diversity. The transceiver module can be configured to transmit the distributed CCEs using at least two UERS ports. The at least two precoding vectors for transmit diversity can include precoding vectors w w w and or w where each precoding vector is an N 1 vector and Nindicates the number of node transmit antennas. In an example the UERS ports can include UERS ports and or . In another example up to sixteen different precoding vectors may be used.

In another example the node device can be configured for physical downlink shared channel PDSCH physical resource block PRB allocation with at least one enhanced physical downlink control channel ePDCCH . The node device can include a processing module and a transceiver module . The processing module can be configured to generate a PDSCH PRB resource allocation RA including at least one ePDCCH PRB. The transceiver module can be configured to transmit the PDSCH PRB RA via downlink control information DCI carried by an ePDCCH. In another example the transceiver module can be configured to transmit PRB configuration information for the ePDCCH via radio resource control RRC signaling before transmitting the PDSCH PRB RA.

In another example the node device can be configured to map physical downlink shared channel PDSCH in resource elements. The node device can include a processing module and a transceiver module . The processing module can be configured to map a PDSCH into physical resource blocks PRBs for a resource allocation RA . For the example an enhanced physical downlink control channel ePDCCH in a resource block group RBG or contiguous PRBs associated with the PDSCH is not part of the resource allocation. The transceiver module can be configured to communicate with a wireless device and to send a resource allocation type for the resource allocation. In an example the resource allocation type for the resource allocation can include RA type 0 resource block group RBG based scheduling RA type 1 PRB based scheduling using virtual resource blocks VRBs or RA type 2 contiguous PRB based scheduling using VRBs.

The node can include a base station BS a Node B NB an evolved Node B eNB a baseband unit BBU a remote radio head RRH a remote radio equipment RRE or a remote radio unit RRU .

The wireless device can include a transceiver module and a channel estimator . The wireless device can be configured to receive a distributed control channel element CCE and a localized CCE in a physical resource block PRB pair for at least one enhanced physical downlink control channel ePDCCH . The transceiver module can be configured to receive at least one distributed CCE for transmit diversity and at least one localized CCE in the PRB pair. The at least two user equipment specific reference signal UERS ports can be used to receive two CCEs. The channel estimator can be configured to monitor the at least two UERS ports to estimate a downlink channel.

In an example the PRB pair can include one distributed CCE and at least three localized CCE. A precoding vector w for beamforming can be applied to a UERS port for one of the localized CCE and a precoding vector orth w for transmit diversity can be applied to a UERS port for the distributed CCE. The precoding vector orth w can be orthogonal to the precoding vector w and w and orth w can each be an N 1 vector where Nindicates the number of node transmit antennas.

In another example the PRB pair can include at least two distributed CCE and at least one localized CCE. The channel estimator can decode a downlink channel precoded with two precoding vector for transmit diversity applied to two UERS ports for the distributed CCEs. The two precoding vectors for transmit diversity can include precoding vectors w w w and or w where each precoding vector is an N 1 vector and Nindicates the number of node transmit antennas.

In another configuration the wireless device can include a transceiver module and a processing module . The wireless device can be configured for enhanced physical downlink control channel ePDCCH validation semi persistent scheduling SPS cell radio network temporary identifier C RNTI masked scheduling. The transceiver module can be configured to receive downlink control information DCI carried by an ePDCCH having a PDSCH PRB resource allocation RA that include at least one ePDCCH PRB. The processing module can be configured to exclude the at least one ePDCCH PRB from the PDSCH PRB resource allocation.

In an example the at least one ePDCCH PRB can include an ePDCCH PRB for the wireless device thus excluding the ePDCCH PRB for the wireless device from the PDSCH PRB resource allocation. In another example the at least one ePDCCH PRB can include all ePDCCH PRB in a subframe thus excluding all ePDCCH PRB in a subframe from the PDSCH PRB resource allocation. A resource allocation type for the resource allocation can include RA type 0 resource block group RBG based scheduling RA type 1 PRB based scheduling using virtual resource blocks VRBs and RA type 2 contiguous PRB based scheduling using VRBs.

In another configuration the wireless device can also include a decoder configured to decode the ePDCCH. The processing module is further configured to check an indicator field for a 0 value in the ePDCCH for a valid semi persistent activation or release. The transceiver module can be further operable to receive PRB configuration information for ePDCCH via radio resource control RRC signaling.

In another configuration the wireless device can include a transceiver module and a processing module . The wireless device can be configured for downlink DL grant validation of a resource allocation RA including an enhanced physical downlink control channel ePDCCH physical resource block PRB carrying a downlink grant. The transceiver module can be configured to receive a semi persistent scheduling SPS activate downlink grant masked with a SPS cell radio network temporary identifier SPS C RNTI for the resource allocation including the ePDCCH. The processing module can be configured to validate a downlink control information DCI format of the downlink grant and determine that the downlink grant is received with a non matching cyclic redundancy check CRC when the DCI format is not validated.

The processing module can be further configured to fail a validation of the DCI format for RA type 0 RA type 1 and RA type 2. In an example the processing module can further comprise rate matching the ePDCCH PRB including the SPS activate downlink grant from a physical downlink shared channel PDSCH PRB to validate the DCI format. In another example the processing module further comprises decoding the ePDCCH PRB as a physical downlink shared channel PDSCH PRB.

In another configuration the wireless device can include a transceiver module and a processing module . The wireless device can be configured for uplink UL grant validation of a semi persistent scheduling SPS physical downlink shared channel PDSCH . The transceiver module can be configured to receive from a node a semi persistent scheduling SPS activation downlink control information DCI and receive a physical downlink shared channel PDSCH without a corresponding enhanced physical downlink control channel ePDCCH in a subframe. Cyclic redundancy check CRC bits for an enhanced physical downlink control channel ePDCCH can be masked with a SPS cell radio network temporary identifier C RNTI . The processing module can be configured to validate an uplink grant in a physical resource block PRB for the PDSCH without the corresponding ePDCCH.

In an example the processing module can be further configured to be aware of no UL grant and skip a blind decode for the UL grant in the PRB for the PDSCH without the corresponding ePDCCH when the wireless device does not detect an ePDCCH downlink DL assignment in the subframe. In another example the processing module can be further configured to Detect an ePDCCH downlink DL assignment in a common or user equipment UE search space for the wireless device in the subfame and blind decode the UL grant including the PDSCH PRB without the corresponding ePDCCH.

Various techniques or certain aspects or portions thereof may take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives non transitory computer readable storage medium or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the various techniques. A non transitory computer readable storage medium can be a computer readable storage medium that does not include signal. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device may include a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. The volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements may be a RAM EPROM flash drive optical drive magnetic hard drive solid state drive or other medium for storing electronic data. The node and wireless device may also include a transceiver module a counter module a processing module and or a clock module or timer module. One or more programs that may implement or utilize the various techniques described herein may use an application programming interface API reusable controls and the like. Such programs may be implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s may be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and combined with hardware implementations.

It should be understood that many of the functional units described in this specification have been labeled as modules in order to more particularly emphasize their implementation independence. For example a module may be implemented as a hardware circuit comprising custom VLSI circuits or gate arrays off the shelf semiconductors such as logic chips transistors or other discrete components. A module may also be implemented in programmable hardware devices such as field programmable gate arrays programmable array logic programmable logic devices or the like.

Modules may also be implemented in software for execution by various types of processors. An identified module of executable code may for instance comprise one or more physical or logical blocks of computer instructions which may for instance be organized as an object procedure or function. Nevertheless the executables of an identified module need not be physically located together but may comprise disparate instructions stored in different locations which when joined logically together comprise the module and achieve the stated purpose for the module.

Indeed a module of executable code may be a single instruction or many instructions and may even be distributed over several different code segments among different programs and across several memory devices.

Similarly operational data may be identified and illustrated herein within modules and may be embodied in any suitable form and organized within any suitable type of data structure. The operational data may be collected as a single data set or may be distributed over different locations including over different storage devices and may exist at least partially merely as electronic signals on a system or network. The modules may be passive or active including agents operable to perform desired functions.

Reference throughout this specification to an example means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the example is included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. Thus appearances of the phrases in an example in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

As used herein a plurality of items structural elements compositional elements and or materials may be presented in a common list for convenience. However these lists should be construed as though each member of the list is individually identified as a separate and unique member. Thus no individual member of such list should be construed as a de facto equivalent of any other member of the same list solely based on their presentation in a common group without indications to the contrary. In addition various embodiments and example of the present invention may be referred to herein along with alternatives for the various components thereof. It is understood that such embodiments examples and alternatives are not to be construed as defacto equivalents of one another but are to be considered as separate and autonomous representations of the present invention.

Furthermore the described features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments. In the following description numerous specific details are provided such as examples of layouts distances network examples etc. to provide a thorough understanding of embodiments of the invention. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize however that the invention can be practiced without one or more of the specific details or with other methods components layouts etc. In other instances well known structures materials or operations are not shown or described in detail to avoid obscuring aspects of the invention.

While the forgoing examples are illustrative of the principles of the present invention in one or more particular applications it will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that numerous modifications in form usage and details of implementation can be made without the exercise of inventive faculty and without departing from the principles and concepts of the invention. Accordingly it is not intended that the invention be limited except as by the claims set forth below.

