---

title: Method to produce particulate filter
abstract: A method is provided for producing a particulate filter to pass through select permeate particles in a fluid medium from inflow to outflow regions while restraining reticulate particles. The method includes providing an aluminum oxide substrate; disposing a sol-gel membrane onto the substrate to form a tiered filtration unit; drying the filtration unit; and calcinating the filtration unit.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08652572&OS=08652572&RS=08652572
owner: The United States of America as Represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 08652572
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121130
---
The invention is a Division claims priority to and incorporates by reference in its entirety U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 804 605 filed Jun. 30 2010 and assigned Navy Case 9972t subsequently issued as Statutory Invention Registration H2273.

The invention described was made in the performance of official duties by one or more employees of the Department of the Navy and thus the invention herein may be manufactured used or licensed by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

The invention relates generally to particulate filtration. In particular the invention relates specifically to mesoporous filtration using ceramic metal oxides based on particular grain sizes.

Contaminants in drinking water present high risks to human health pathogenic microorganisms disinfectant by products arsenic and heavy metals can cause cancer and other toxic effects. Organic and inorganic agents such as pesticides ammonium perchlorate Al ClO arsenic As nitrite NO sulfate SO radon Rn particulates and pathogens including cyst like organisms and emerging pathogens like caliciviruses microsploridia hepatitis A virus and Legionella must be removed from drinking water.

Filtration and separation can be accomplished with porous membranes. A microfiltration membrane process presents a cost effective medium for rapid removal of chemical and biological agents from water. However microfiltration does not provide efficient removal of nanometer sized bacteria viruses and metal ions. Ultrafiltration UF membranes with nominal pore diameters measured in angstroms of 20 to 200 are used in a variety of solid liquid separation processes representing a fairly large market in the sectors of waste remediation drink clarification oil processing and fractionation of biomolecules.

Polymer membranes supplies much of the market for ultrafiltration membranes. These are limited in their application by chemical and thermal stability mechanical strength and pore size distribution. See R. W. Baker et al. Noyes Data Corporation Parkridge N.J. 1991 and R. R. Bhave Van Nostrand Reinhold N.Y. 1991 . In contrast commercial ceramic membranes such as Membralox and Carbosep have significantly better thermal chemical and mechanical stability than organic membranes. However these ceramic membranes are limited by tortuous irregularly sized pores that lead to fouling poor separations and inefficient permeance. See Canadian Patent 1 168 590 to Arod et al. have used ceramic ultrafiltation membranes pore size 20 nm to 40 nm to remove contaminants from used motor oil.

Contaminant removal has been demonstrated at far lower energy consumption than distillation and with a far smaller waste stream than with the conventional acid treatment followed by centrifugation. See A. Deschamps et al. Application of Inorganic Membranes in Refining Processes of Petroleum Residues 1237 July 1990 regarding ceramic ultrafiltation membranes pore diameter above 15 nm to separate catalyst particles from a hydrocarbon stream at 250 C.

Ceramic ultrafiltation membranes have also been shown to be effective in separation of oil from aqueous streams as reported in Bhave . About 99.5 of lubricating oil in a 0.1 oil balance water stream was rejected by ceramic membranes. A water flux of 7.5 L h macross the membrane 4 nm to 50 nm pore size was obtained with a trans membrane pressure of 3 bar as reported by R. R. Bhave et al. Removal of Oily Contaminants in Wastewater with Microporous Alumina Membranes 84 261 p. 19 1988 .

Conventional filtration devices yield disadvantages addressed by various exemplary embodiments of the present invention. In particular conventional devices compromise between particulate size and pressure drop across the filter.

Various exemplary embodiments provide a particulate filter for passing through select permeate particles in a fluid medium from inflow to outflow regions while restraining reticulate particles. The filter includes a coarse grain ceramic porous substrate an intermediate grain porous ceramic layer a fine grain ceramic porous membrane and a channel there through. The substrate opens into the outflow region as an outflow cavity. The intermediate grain porous ceramic layer is disposed on the substrate. The fine grain ceramic porous membrane is disposed on the layer and opens into the inflow region containing the medium as an inflow cavity.

The channel directionally expands and connects the inflow and outflow cavities together by a substantially funnel shape passage. The inflow cavity permits the permeate particles and the medium but obstructs the reticulate particles. These various exemplary embodiments provide for high flow rates and high percentage removal of solid particles and agents from liquid. The gaps in the above structure are interconnected forming low tortuosity channels across ceramic membrane and supporting porous substrate.

Additionally various exemplary embodiments provide a method for producing a particulate filter that passes through select permeate particles in a fluid medium from inflow to outflow regions while restraining reticulate particles. The method includes providing an aluminum oxide substrate disposing a sol gel membrane onto the substrate to form a filtration unit drying the filtration unit and calcinating the filtration unit.

In the following detailed description of exemplary embodiments of the invention reference is made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof and in which is shown by way of illustration specific exemplary embodiments in which the invention may be practiced. These embodiments are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the invention. Other embodiments may be utilized and logical mechanical and other changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the present invention. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of the present invention is defined only by the appended claims.

Inexpensive high flow rate sharp cut off membrane filters are necessary for ultrafiltration and liquid solid separation of organic and inorganic compounds. Defense application includes separation and detection of chemical and biological agents. Commercial application includes food and beverage petroleum processing biotechnology and medical sectors examples include particles separation oil purification catalytic membrane reactors supports for nanocomposites and particulate removal from waste streams.

By depositing a porous membrane onto a larger pore substrate the permeate flow rate enables proportionally to be reduced to d where d is pore diameter of the membrane. For example a membrane with pore diameter two times smaller than that of substrate may cause sixteen times reduction in flow rate. Ultrafiltration membranes usually exhibit low permeation rates. Example ceramic candidates for filtration purposes include aluminum oxide AlOor alumina zirconium oxide ZrOor zirconia silicon oxide SiOor silica and titanium oxide TiOor titania .

Various exemplary embodiments introduce mesoporous ceramic membrane filters with high flow rates and sharp cut off by providing a layered ceramic porous structure with funnel geometry and reduced resistance to permeate flow. This structure provides for high flow rates and high percentage removal of solid particles and agents from liquid. The gaps in the above structure are interconnected forming low tortuosity channels across ceramic membrane and supporting porous substrate.

Also various exemplary embodiments describe methods of fabrication of graded layered granular ceramic membranes with funnel shaped channels. These exemplary filters can be described as high surface area layered ceramic membrane structures with funnel type channels exhibiting low tortuocity and providing for faster fluid flow at low pressure. The funnel geometry of the channels with smaller diameter at the funnel inner end and larger diameter at the funnel outer end reduces resistance to the fluid flow and therefore increases flow rates.

A series of experiments revealed that multilayered ceramic filters provided up to 99.96 reduction of cesium and strontium ions from water at flow rates significantly higher than those in commercially available ceramic membrane filters. Several membrane filters had flow rates close to or above those of uncoated large pores substrates. This disclosure proposes the concept of funnel type reduced turbulence channels and describes the design of mesoporous filters development and optimization of sol gel deposition process and microstructural characterization and testing of the filters.

This new class introduces high flow rate layered mesoporous ceramic membrane filters with tailorable pore size distribution high selectivity high thermo mechanical strength and chemical stability for particle separation and ultrafiltration. This effort was directed toward the conceptual design of a new class of high flow rate mesoporous ceramic membranes with high density of pores from 5 to 50 in diameter . Reduction of hydraulic resistance by using funnel type channels across the filter thickness should significantly improve flow rates Influence of the structural changes such as thickness of layers and pore orientation on the flow stability and turbulence of fluid was analyzed.

Several models have been developed to describe fluid flow through porous media and variable passages. These include models of seepage and percolation that found application in the problems of sedimentation and groundwater movement. Models of laminar and turbulent flow through narrow channels can be applied to the flow across the mesoporous membranes. F. M. White McGraw Hill 1974 described main stages of a steady fluid flow through a constant cross section tubular channel. Wall friction causes a viscous layer to begin at the inlet and grow downstream possibly becoming turbulent further inside the channel. The viscous layers coalesce so that the channel is then completely filled with boundary layer.

Further downstream of the coalescence the flow profile ceases to change with axial position and became a fully developed flow. In the fully developed flows the initial growing shear layer and acceleration effects can be neglected. Fully developed regions are usually occurred at some finite down stream distance. Several solutions have been obtained for linear problems when streamlines are straight parallel lines. This type of problem can be solved by considering only one component of velocity vector u vthat coincides with the axis x of the channel. This type of dynamic problem is described by eqn. 1 

For steady state problems the transient term u t in eqn. 1 can be neglected. In this case steady state fluid flow driven by the pressure gradient dP dx can be described as 

Equivalent pore diameter is a function of grain size. For a filter wall of thickness h that has interconnected pores of diameter d forming short straight channels of length h the permeate fluid flux J unit volume per unit area per unit time can be evaluated by 

An expanding filtration channel such as formed by pores between grains connects the regions . The solution contains solid particles e.g. chemical and biological agents forced into the tubular cavity . Smaller particles pass through channels or pores of the membrane as permeate while larger particles remain in the initial region as retentate. In this embodiment the membrane is deposited on larger pore size alumina supported by a very large pore alumina substrate.

High flow rate filters should have a large number of pores per surface area and relatively small membrane thickness. Also pores should be interconnected in the fashion providing low tortuocity to form a short path from inner surface of the filter to its outer surface. The roughness of the channel surface depends upon the size of the grains while channel tortuocity depends upon the orientation of the grains.

For funnel shaped channels constructed from several layers major resistance to the flow originates from the upper layer due to its smallest pores. Consequently the thickness of this fine pore layer should preferably be minimized to increase permeate flow rate. However the thickness should be sufficient to withstand trans membrane pressure. This requires solution of optimization problem involving microfluidics and membrane strength.

For substrate and or sublayer having coefficients of thermal expansion higher than that in newly deposited membrane thermal stresses along the membrane sublayer are compressive. This can result in the compression and reduction of the channel diameters. This effect should preferably be accounted for in selection of materials and thermal processing regimes. Photographic enlargements further described in the drawings illustrate several types of ceramic membranes developed in this work.

Further description includes the development of chemical composition and deposition process to construct mesoporous membranes on ceramic substrates. Mesoporous zirconia titania and silica membranes were layered onto large pore ceramic substrates by using sol gel processes. Efforts in support of this task included variations in chemical compositions of precursor sol gel solutions deposition and post processing techniques to produce membranes with low tortuocity and high speed fluid flow at low pressure.

Template mediated approaches to bulk microporous materials have been employed since 1948 to form molecular sieves but have only recently been adapted to form mesoporous materials. Researchers at Mobil e.g. C. T. Kresge et al. Ordered Mesoporous Molecular Sieves Synthesized by a Liquid Crystal Template Mechanism 359 p. 710 1992 and J. S. Beck et al. A New Family of Mesoporous Molecular Sieves Prepared with Liquid Crystal Templates 114 pp. 10834 10843 1992 as well as elsewhere e.g. Q. Huo et al. Generalized Synthesis of Periodic Surfactant Inorganic Composite Materials 368 pp. 317 321 1994 have shown that the use of surfactant molecules and assemblies as templates in the presence of inorganic oxide precursors sols or alkoxides leads to the formation of porous materials that possess narrow pore size distribution and tailorable pore sizes 1.5 nm to 4.5 nm .

A series of these porous solids designated MCM 41 by the Mobil researchers consists of silica or aluminosilicates formed in a periodic array of uniform channels as reported in M. A. Anderson et al. Green Technology for the 21Century Ceramic Membranes Materials Research Society 368 pp. 377 387 1995 . The mesoporous materials are characterized by surface areas as high as 1070 m g square meters per gram with associated advantages in sorption driven processes.

Cationic surfactants such as CTAB have served as the removable templates and dictate the pore size. The films were produced by dip coating using an environmental chamber. The synthesis of mesoporous ceramic materials is reviewed by X. S. Zhao et al. Advances in Mesoporous Molecular Sieve MCM 4135 pp. 2075 2090 1996 and N. K. Raman et al. Template based Approaches to the Preparation of Amorphous Nanoporous Silicas 8 pp. 1682 1701 1996 among others.

Researchers at Sandia National Laboratories have investigated the fabrication of periodic mesoporous ceramic films by two methods. The first method termed Gas Catalyzed Thin Film Synthesis GCTFS involves diffusing ammonia into a homogeneous micellar coating solution on a substrate. In the second approach the preferential evaporation PE method the synthesis is started using a homogeneous surfactant silica solution.

Both methods produced ceramic thin films with regular pores narrow pore size distribution and high surface area. Two references are cited H. P. Groger et al. Template mediated Synthesis of Periodic Membranes for Improved Liquid phase Separations Phase I Final Report Department of Energy Contract DE FG02 96ER82119 37 pp 1997 and R. Ganguli et al. Rapid Continuous Formation of Supported Mesoporous Films From Homogeneous Sols by a Surfactant Templated Mechanism 1997 submitted to . Both Groger and Ganguli have described the evolution of structure in the mesoporous membrane accompanying dip coating and provided optical interference images of mesoporous films prepared with an initial surfactant concentration of 0.06M during dip coating at 7.6 cm min. Films having a thickness in the 0.1 m to 0.5 m range were produced in seconds in a continuous coating process.

These authors described the development of structure in the drying film with distance above the free surfactant reservoir and showed that the increasing concentration of surfactant lead to a phase transformation from free surfactant to micelles to a liquid crystalline phase acting as a template for the silica. The proposed formation mechanism involves cooperative assembly of silica surfactant micellar species with supramolecular surfactant templates either cylindrical micelles or hemi micelles that self assemble at the substrate liquid and liquid air interfaces at an early stage in the deposition process. The interior region exhibited a disordered micellar structure.

Efforts in support of the disclosure involved modification of template mediated synthesis to develop superior ultrafiltration ceramic membrane filters. Using several removable organic molecule templates membranes were synthesized to produce tailorable pore sizes extremely narrow pore size distributions ultrasharp particle size molecular weight cutoffs i.e. excellent selectivity and increased permeance. This produced nanocomposite membranes with pores aligned in the direction perpendicular to the support. These pores are interconnected in the form of channels with gradually and step like increase in pore diameter.

Defect free thin layers of mesoporous zirconia titania and silica were deposited onto large pore ceramic substrates including alumina disks 47 mm in diameter and ceramic tubes. The fabrication process included development of the chemical compositions for precursor sol gel solutions and selection of fabrication parameters including withdrawal speed atmosphere and reaction time. Parameters of the furnace regimes to remove template molecules and compose porous graded layered structure were also evaluated.

After manufacture the filter medium is evaluated and tested. Mesoporous silica films were formed using cetyltrimethylammonium bromide CTAB or CH N CH Br or cetyltrimethylammonium hydrogen sulfate CTAHS or CHNHSO surfactant. Tetraethoxysilane TEOS or Si OCH or tetra methoxysilane TMOS or Si OCH have been used as the source of silica. Films having a thickness in the 0.1 m to 0.5 m range were produced in seconds in a continuous coating process.

Polymeric silica sols were prepared in a two step process. In the first step TEOS ethanol CHOH water and hydrochloric acid HCl were refluxed at 60 C. In the second step water was added and the hydrochloric acid concentration was increased to 0.01M. The solution was stirred for 15 minutes at 25 C. Then the sols were aged at 50 C. for up to 8 hours and diluted with ethanol. CTAB was added to the solution in quantities corresponding to a solution concentration ranging from 0.03M to 0.11M.

Several films were deposited on the substrate material by dip coating at rates ranging from 7.6 cm min to 50.9 cm min using an environmentally controlled dip coating apparatus. Special attention was devoted to damping of vibrations during the dipping process. Solvent evaporation increases the surfactant concentration above the critical micelle concentration cmc during the sol gel dip coating process. This process presents a critical advance for thin film deposition because none of the previously published methods provided a homogeneous mixture of reactants.

Experiments employing sources of zirconia and titania resulted in high flux mesoporous membranes capable of withstanding high thermo mechanical loads and are stable in the pH range from 0 to 14. Work was also performed to fabricate zirconia membranes using an acid catalyzed zirconium IV propoxide solution. The zirconium IV propoxide Zr OCHCHCH sol was not aged. Solutions were dip coated in a nitrogen filled glove box with a withdrawal rate of approximately 500 mm min 20 inches per minute . The coatings were stabilized in 1N phosphoric acid HPO and calcined at 400 C. in oxygen for one hour. Upon calcination the hexagonal alpha and cubic gamma phases should undergo partial consolidation while the lamellar phase collapses.

Thermally induced stresses and thermal cracks represent an important factor that influences membrane structure after calcination in the furnace. To minimize risk of thermal cracking during the shrinkage in cooling phase the coefficients of thermal expansion of the materials of substrate and membrane should preferably be closely matched. The low temperature methods as well as multi layer membrane structures smoothing thermal stress gradients were used in this effort. Amorphous membranes were deposited converted to a periodic nanocomposite membranes and the template removed with retention of thermo mechanical stability.

Microstructural evaluation of the membranes was performed by using X ray diffraction transmission electron microscopy and scanning electron microscopy. These types of analyses provided data on the pore size and alignment periodicity of pore arrays and membrane thickness. Optical microscope was used for evaluation of membrane homogeneity and possible defects including thermally induced cracks.

Atomic force microscopy AFM was performed on zirconia films deposited on alumina and glass substrates at different withdrawal speeds ranging from 3 in min to 25 in min using sol gels with different amounts of CTAB from 2 to 10 . The AFM was performed using tapping mode of silicon cantilever resonant frequency from 280 kHz to 500 kHz with conical tip attached to the end of the cantilever.

Presumably the bluntness of the conical tip with diameter about 20 places a limit on the minimal pore diameter to be detected using the AFM method. The AFM image in shows alumina disk surface with pore near 200 in diameter. Zirconia membrane with 2 of CTAB was deposited on the alumina disk at withdrawal speed of 3 in min.

The 3 D and phase images revealed patterns of densely packed grain with minimal grain size D 380 . Additional AFM phase images of zirconia membrane prepared with 4 of CTAB and deposited on alumina disk nominal d 200 at withdrawal speed of 20 in min suggest that membrane formed a more uniform than that in image fine grain structure with pore size near 26 .

The next aspect for description is acquisition of test data to characterize membrane performance. Tubular and disc shaped membrane filters were tested under various operating conditions for thermo mechanical strength and chemical stability. Evaluation parameters included flow rates sharpness of the separation factor molecular weight cutoff and the tendency toward fouling. Influence of the nanostructural changes involving variation in the thickness of layers and pore orientation on the flow stability was investigated.

The storage tank provides a measure of volume V and dial gauges Pand Pprovide respective pressure measurements upstream and downstream of the filter holder . shows test equipment components including the filter holder with tubular filters at five inches in length and with epoxy coated ends.

The equivalent pore diameter in filters is defined from dry bubble point pressure. In wet bubble point test filters were put under water for about 20 minutes then connected to clear polymer pipes and loaded by nitrogen at room temperature up to 48 psi. All submerged filters revealed no permeate bubbles. To perform dry bubble point test the filters have been dried by hot air connected to clear polymer pipes and loaded by nitrogen at room temperature up to 48 psi. Then the filters were rapidly submerged under water and within one minute nitrogen pressure was monotomically reduced to the bubble point level when weak but continuous gas bubble streams were observed in more than ten points of outer surface of the filters. This test also helped to detect defect cracks poorly sealed ends and uneven thickness of membrane.

Both input and permeate solutions were analyzed by using Inductively Coupled Plasma Mass Spectrometer microplate readers enzyme linked assays and Gas Chromatographic Flame Ionization Detection instruments. Analyses of water samples were performed at Chemical Solutions Ltd. Mechanicsburg Pa. Three replicate samples per unknown were analyzed using the gas chromatographic flame ionization detection test procedure. All tests involving chemical and biological agents were performed by using replicates and known additions as a control or blank . The III sodium salt has molecular weight at approximately 724.67 MW and absorption peak at 570 nm.

For the hydrate plot includes wavelength as abscissa and absorption as ordinate . Plotted curves include retentate as post filter as post filter as and post filter as . All these curves appear to have a local maximum at about 370 nm albeit at differing amplitudes.

According to the absorption spectrum of permeate fluids in plot filter provided 60 and filter provided 92 reduction of sulfonazo III sodium salt as compared to initial peak at 570 nm. Molecular weight of 8 hydroxyquinoline 5 sulfonic acid hydrate is 225.23 MW. The absorption spectra of 8 hydroxyquinoline 5 sulfonic acid hydrate is shown in plot . Absorption peak at 368 nm reduced 14 after passage through filter and 51 after passage through filters and .

The filtration efficiency has been also evaluated by using a solution containing 2 10M i.e. approximately 30 000 ppb of cesium nitrate. The samples of permeate and retentate of filter were analyzed using inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry. The concentrations of cesium in retentate and permeate appeared to be correspondingly 25 600 ppb and 400 ppb. This represents 98.4 reduction of cesium in permeate.

Filters marked as series BD exhibited flow rates 30 to 50 times higher than those in the commercially available filters. Also filters BD 12 and BD 13 exhibited flow rates about 10 higher than those in uncoated alumina substrates. show column bar charts and with strontium salt respectively for filtration efficiency and permeate flow rate for selected membrane filters. tabulates these data for filtration efficiency as in Table IV for Filtration Efficiency of selected membrane filters. tabulates data for strontium filtration with zirconia membrane filters as in Table V Filtration of Strontium Performance.

In these tests several multilayered ceramic membrane filters exhibited rates close to or above those of uncoated large pores substrates. These filters provided up to 99.96 reduction of cesium 195 MW and strontium 212 MW ions from water. Also as compared to commercially available titania membrane filters 1000 MW and 5000 MW cut off these filters provided much higher flow rates. Additionally zirconia membrane on alumina substrate filters have been used in tests involving pump oil and contaminated motor oil.

Optimization of the funnel type structure by varying membrane materials layer thickness and sequence resulted in very high flow rates and excellent separation of particles was also performed. In several experiments funnel shaped membrane filters produced flow rates somewhat above those of substrates this phenomenon of accelerated flow was explained by the capability of membranes to reduce flow turbulence.

During calcination titania zirconia and silica layers produce two types of micro structure 1 densely packed grains with gaps between the grains and 2 loosely packed grains forming web structures. In the densely packed structures the gaps are 10 to 100 times smaller than grain diameter. Experiments showed that grains have narrow distribution in size which is a highly desirable result. Web structures produce flow rates much higher than that through granular structures. Web structure developed mainly in zirconia membranes was used as a high flow rate sublayer for fine grain titania membranes.

Novel fabrication process involved new chemical compositions and optimized processing regimes. These regimes accounted for the coefficients of thermal expansion in ceramic layers and substrate as a new tool to tailor pore size in mesoporous membranes. Filters exhibiting excellent flow rate and superior separation efficiency were fabricated with and without surfactants.

Carbon sulfur and other burnable chemical elements uniformly distributed in sol gel and subsequently in wet membrane material can be burned during calcination in furnace. At about 400 C. these elements were burned and subsequently washed out of the membrane material by deionized water by using transmembrane pressure. This finding role of burnable elements as element forming free surfaces between ceramic grains constitutes another novel feature.

At least one innovative feature relates to modification of both web and large grain structures. The process involves attaching elongated whiskertype elements to the web or larger pores to form a three dimensional 3 D mesh or web composed of burnable whiskers. This mesh can be used to trap and accumulate solid particles in a fairly broad size range. Subsequently trapped particles and the web can be removed from the filter surface for example by burning web at high temperatures and subsequently by washing off by using water or solvents. This approach is beneficial and low cost allowing for easy redeposition of new web and re use of the filters.

Modified ceramic sol gels were synthesized and utilized in the fabrication of mesoporous films containing various functionalities and dyes. The functionalities produced mesoporous ceramic films that are selective toward specific analyses. A template mediated approach was utilized to encapsulate dye molecules into the sol gel matrix. Sol gels were produced using alkoxide compounds such as tetraethoxysilane TEOS or Si OCH titanium IV isopropoxide and zirconium IV n propoxide as reported in Groger.

The second step involved increasing the hydrochloric acid concentration to 0.01M. The solution was stirred for 15 minutes at 25 C. The silica sols were aged at 50 C. for up to 8 hours and diluted with ethanol. Titania sol gels were synthesized using the titanium IV isopropoxide tert amyl alcohol water and nitric acid. The water was added in a tert amyl alcohol solution using a syringe at a rate of 6 mL hr. The reaction mixture was refluxed at 60 C. for 30 minutes. The reaction molar ratio of alkoxide solvent water and acid was from 1 to 7 to 3 to 5 10. The sols were diluted using tert amyl alcohol. A surfactant compound such as CTAB was added to the diluted sol gel solutions in quantities corresponding to a concentration ranging from 0.03M to 0.11M.

The literature provides reviews for the incorporation of organic inorganic and biorganic molecules into mesoporous materials. See K. Moller and T. Bein Inclusion Chemistry in Periodic Mesoporous Hosts 10 pp. 2950 2963 1998 and D. Avnir Organic Chemistry within Ceramic Matrices Doped Sol gel Materials 28 pp. 328 334 1995 . A majority of the work has utilized silica SiO as the sol gel material. The entrapped dopant molecule is added during the polycondensation reaction.

As the reaction proceeds the dopant molecule is enclosed by the ceramic sol gel matrix as shown in . Incorporation into a sol gel matrix offers many advantages as described by D. Avnir et al. Enzymes and Other Proteins Entrapped in Sol gel Materials 6 pp. 1605 1614 1994 such as 

The mesoporous ceramic sol gel films were deposited on glass substrates using a dip coating apparatus at withdrawal rates ranging from 7.6 cm min to 50.9 cm min. Mesoporous ceramic films were produced with a thickness in the 0.1 m to 0.5 m range. The air dried membranes were calcinized in a furnace at 300 C. for 2 hours.

 1 glassware was cleaned with soap and water rinsed with acetone and dried in the drying oven at 110 C.

 3 zirconium IV propoxide or Titanium IV isopropoxide and nitric acid solution in solvent was charged to reaction flask. Any additives such as dyes or sol gel modifiers were also added into the flask.

 5 water solvent solution was then added in 50 L aliquots. POM modifiers if any were dissolved in the water before mixing in the solvent.

 8 the sol gel solution was placed in a plastic bottle and allowed to stir at room temperature for one hour.

Additional tests were performed on the DuoSeal pump oil and contaminated SAE 30 HD oil at elevated temperature and pressure. shows a plot of permeate flow rate of pump oil as a function of temperature. The plot includes pressure in psi as abscissa and permeate flux as ordinate showing a curve fit line . provides a tabular summary of tests with pump oil. shows a plot of scaled permeate flow rate as a function of input pressure for filtering deionized water. The plot includes input pressure in psi as abscissa and scaled permeate flux as ordinate showing a curve fit line . provides a tabular summary of tests with motor oil. In both plots and the permeate curve fit lines linearly increase with rise in pressure.

While certain features of the embodiments of the invention have been illustrated as described herein many modifications substitutions changes and equivalents will now occur to those skilled in the art. It is therefore to be understood that the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications and changes as fall within the true spirit of the embodiments.

