---

title: Content rights protection with arbitrary correlation of second content
abstract: A disclosed content rights management system defines a content usage policy via a conditional rule set contained in metadata. The conditional rule set is correlated to at least one second content. An access control manager determines, dynamically, access rights conferrable to a user device or a server, based on the content usage policy and user history parameters. The embodiments may confer limited access rights for a first activity by a user device, or by a server, with respect to the protected content and the second content, and block a second activity with respect to the protected content and the second content, in response to determining that the request for the second content, in conjunction with the user history parameters, does not comply with the conditional rule set for the second activity.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08959574&OS=08959574&RS=08959574
owner: Google Technology Holdings LLC
number: 08959574
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120621
---
The present patent application is related to copending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 528 917 CORRELATION ENGINE AND METHOD FOR GRANULAR META CONTENT HAVING ARBITRARY NON UNIFORM GRANULARITY and copending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 528 922 PRIVACY MANAGER FOR RESTRICTING CORRELATION OF META CONTENT HAVING PROTECTED INFORMATION BASED ON PRIVACY RULES both of which are assigned to the same assignee as the present application and both are hereby incorporated by reference herein in their entirety.

The present disclosure relates generally to digital content and digital rights management for content.

Content and the various types or forms of digital content that have been developed has ushered in the need of content authors and or owners to protect copyrighted content from piracy and other forms of unauthorized copying. Content protection regimes such as Digital Rights Management DRM enable enforcement of copying restrictions on content. However such rights management regimes do not provide mechanisms for control of other aspects related to how particular content is put to use and therefore it is difficult or impossible to prevent unauthorized use of content other than unauthorized copying.

The disclosed embodiments provide content authors and or other rights owners with the ability to arbitrarily correlate a piece of content with one or more additional arbitrary pieces of content and or meta content. Using this inventive capability a content owner can exercise control over a wide variety of content usage other than mere copy prevention. For example the disclosed embodiments enable the placement of restrictions on editing and mixing content with other undesirable content to create content mash ups. In another example the disclosed embodiments enable the placement of restrictions on a sequence in which content may be accessed for viewing. Various other types of control are possible using the disclosed embodiments.

The disclosed inventive embodiments enable a content author owner to define a usage policy. In accordance with the embodiments the usage policy is monitored and enforced by way of a conditional rule set contained in metadata that is associated with the content. In accordance with the embodiments the conditional rule set is evaluated in conjunction with a user history to determine compliance or non compliance with the usage policy. In some embodiments the usage policy is monitored and enforced by way of an access control manager. The conferring of access rights in accordance with the embodiments is dynamic in that as the user history changes or evolves the usage policy may confer restrict or withdraw certain access rights based on past activity in accordance with the content usage policy.

The present disclosure provides a method and apparatus for content rights management. One disclosed method begins with obtaining a conditional rule set defining a content usage policy. The conditional rule set is contained in metadata associated with a first content and the conditional rule set is correlated to at least a second content. The method includes determining dynamically access rights conferrable to a user device based on the content usage policy and user history parameters in response to determining that a request for the second content in conjunction with the user history parameters complies or does not comply with the conditional rule set. The access rights may be conferred to a user device a server or a specific content usage application on a server or on a user device.

The method may include conferring limited access rights for a first activity by for example a user device or a server with respect to the first content and the second content and blocking a second activity with respect to the first content and the second content in response to determining that the request for the second content in conjunction with the user history parameters does not comply with the conditional rule set for the second activity. The method may also include conferring access rights for the second content based on the content usage policy and the user history parameters at a first time in response to determining that the request for the second content in conjunction with the user history parameters at the first time complies with the conditional rule set and denying access rights for the second content based on the content usage policy and the user history parameters at a second time in response to determining that the request for the second content in conjunction with the user history parameters at the second time no longer complies with the conditional rule set.

The present disclosure also provides an apparatus having an access control manager. The access control manager is operative to obtain a conditional rule set that defines a content usage policy. The conditional rule set is contained in metadata associated with a first content where the conditional rule set is correlated to at least a second content. The access control manager is operative to determine dynamically access rights conferrable to a user device a server etc. based on the content usage policy and user history parameters in response to determining that a request for the second content in conjunction with the user history parameters complies or does not comply with the conditional rule set. The access control manager may also be operative to confer limited access rights for a first activity by for example a user device or a server with respect to the first content and the second content and block a second activity with respect to the first content and the second content in response to determining that the request for the second content in conjunction with the user history parameters does not comply with the conditional rule set for the second activity.

The access control manager may also confer access rights for the second content based on the content usage policy and the user history parameters at a first time in response to determining that the request for the second content in conjunction with the user history parameters at the first time complies with the conditional rule set and deny access rights for the second content based on the content usage policy and the user history parameters at a second time in response to determining that the request for the second content in conjunction with the user history parameters at the second time no longer complies with the conditional rule set.

The present disclosure also provides another method of content rights management which includes conferring dynamically access rights to a user device or a server based on a usage policy where the usage policy is defined by a conditional rule set contained in metadata associated with a first content and the conditional rule set is correlated to at least a second content. The method may include obtaining the second content from a meta content of the first content the meta content including at least one of analysis of the first content analysis of at least one parameter of the first content searchable time based reference data associated with the first content or searchable location based reference data associated with the first content.

Turning now to the drawings wherein like numerals represent like components illustrates system architecture in accordance with some embodiments. As shown in various user devices such as user device and various servers such as analysis server communicate over a network to obtain and or interact with content obtained from content server . The network may be an intranet or may be the Internet or any other suitable network and may utilize any suitable network technology. The various user devices may be any suitable user device for example a smart phone laptop personal digital assistant PDA electronic book reader tablet personal computer PC etc. and may employ any suitable network access technology in order to access the network . The content may be any content such as but not limited to video audio photographs documents email messages instant messages location information a database element such as but not limited to a database row a single database entry etc. Put another way the embodiments illustrated by are agnostic to the type of user device type of network or type of content employed. The content may also be accessed by a server such as but not limited to analysis server . Analysis server may include a content usage application that performs for example various analytical operations on content and or metadata and or meta content to produce a resultant content . Other servers other than the example analysis server may also exist and have other content usage applications that can access and perform various usage activities or operations on content and or metadata and or meta content to produce a resultant content.

The content in most embodiments will include metadata . Metadata may be encapsulated along with the content or may be embedded into content using various techniques. The metadata may also be located remotely from the content in some cases. For example if the user device downloads the content and stores it in memory the metadata may be maintained on the content server and accessed as needed. The metadata may also provide other information related to and or about the content such as but not restricted or limited to authorship ownership date of creation place of creation version or any other related information etc.

In accordance with the embodiments the metadata will include a set of conditional rules that are used to determine how the content may be used by the user device when interacting with other content. That is the present embodiments enable a content owner or author to define a usage policy for a specific piece of content and or meta content. A usage policy or content usage policy defines how content and or meta content may be utilized in conjunction with other content and or meta content. Compliance or non compliance with the usage policy in accordance with the embodiments is evaluated by determining whether a content request in conjunction with user history parameters complies or does not comply with the conditional rule set contained by the metadata. The conditional rule set provides a set of requirements that may include precedent condition requirements Boolean logic conditions or other requirements. The conditional rule set is a machine interpretable set of conditional rules that can be interpreted by in one example software or firmware executing on a processor. In some embodiments the conditional rule set will be contained in metadata in an encrypted format that is not accessible without proper authorization such as required encryptions keys passwords authorization codes etc. User history parameters may include but are not limited to content or meta content identification dates of access times of access number of access attempts or number of accesses usage activity identifications etc. For example a user history may contain user history parameters that indicate when a piece of content was edited i.e. a usage activity identification by the user. In the example of the metadata conditional rules define how the content may be used in conjunction with other content and or meta content. For example the metadata conditional rules may be used to determine how the content may be accessed edited or otherwise utilized based on for example user history related to user device and content and other content other than content . The database may also contain user history that is associated with the analysis server . That is a user history for the analysis server would show what content the content usage application accessed and how that content was used. For example user history contains user history parameters that may indicate how and when content was accessed and used. The user history may also have information related to other content which may include the meta content other meta content other than meta content or may include metadata such as metadata or other metadata associated with other content or meta content. Examples of these scenarios to facilitate understanding of the various embodiments are provided herein below.

In accordance with some embodiments meta content and meta content may be a type of searchable indexed meta content that has a relation to the content . An example of such searchable indexed meta content is best understood with reference to . illustrates the relationship of primary content to associated meta content elements . As shown in the primary content may be associated with a plurality of meta content elements such as meta content element and . Each of the meta content elements such as meta content element has an associated but arbitrary granularity. The granularity of the meta content elements may be related to segmentation based on intervals of time location or any other suitable criteria. As shown in the meta content element includes meta content segment which is further subdivided into meta content items . Therefore in accordance with the various embodiments primary content and or one or all of the meta content elements may also have conditional rules that define how the primary content and or meta content elements may be accessed edited or otherwise utilized based on for example user history related to user device or a user history related to analysis server and primary content and other content such as but not limited to the meta content elements . The various embodiments require a user history that is related to the content or meta content where the user history may be stored on a user device a server having a content usage application remotely located on a server or database or distributed among varied locations. In some embodiments some or all of the meta content elements may be generated by a server such as analysis server illustrated in . For example the content usage application may access content subject to the applicable conditional rule set for content and produce a meta content element as resultant content . In another example the content usage application of analysis server may access one or more of the meta content elements subject to the applicable conditional rule set for each of meta content element and produce a new meta content element as resultant content .

The term meta content as used herein may encompass or include various types and forms of metadata associated with a piece of content. That is the term meta content as used herein may refer to metadata that may be considered content in and of itself For example such meta content may be a multimedia content or other audiovisual content such as a director s cut of a movie content or may be analysis output from a visual detector or some other analysis tool. In other words meta content may include other content i.e. second or secondary content that provides but is not limited to information analysis contextual information etc. about or related to the main or primary content. Such meta content may include but is not limited to date information time information location information annotations various properties of the content keyframes excitement level associated Twitter posts facial recognition information optical character recognition object recognition speech to text or other speech recognition information etc. closed captioning or for example analysis of such text streams to produce keyterm extraction named entity recognition and other text analyses or related content related segments Twitter feeds excitement levels aggregation of an analysis summaries and the like etc.

As shown in the system architecture also includes access control manager in accordance with the embodiments. The access control manager may include a policy manager and a privacy manager which are described in further detail herein below. The access control manager in the various embodiments may reside on or be integrated with the content server may reside on a user device may reside on analysis server or may be a distributed access control manager part on a server and part on a user device. In some embodiments the access control manager may be an independent network entity for example a server accessible over the network as illustrated in . The access control manager controls how content is accessed and used in conjunction with metadata conditional rules and user history . The user history is a user history related to the user device where each user device may have an independent user history or the user history may be tied to an individual user regardless of which device the individual user may be employing to access the content . A user history may also be related to analysis server or may be tied to individual users of server or may be tied to specific content usage applications of analysis server or to specific users of a content usage application etc. The user history may be stored on a remote database such as database which is accessible over the network . The access control manager controls how content is accessed and or used by conferring access rights. The access rights enable the user device or a server such as analysis server to obtain the content and or perform a given usage activity. Access rights may be conferred or withdrawn in various ways using various technologies such as but not limited to scrambling descrambling encryption decryption embedding tags or any other suitable mechanism etc. as needed to enforce a usage policy in accordance with the embodiments.

In operation the user device or analysis server may send a content request via the network to content server in order to download clip mash up modify redistribute sell aggregate information from or otherwise use content . The content request may be a message that is generated by the user device or analysis server or some other server without any specific user action or user involvement. In other words a specific content may be present on the content server or on the user device but may be locked for certain usage activities until an access right for that activity is conferred to the requesting entity. For example the user may launch a content usage application which may enable one or more usage activities with respect to the content such as but not limited to view edit . The conditional rules in the metadata for that content may trigger sending a content request which would be received or intercepted by the access control manager . Usage activities may be any of various actions that can be taken with respect to the content for example viewing editing analysis etc. Therefore a content usage application may be a viewer editor analysis application or any other suitable application that works with content. Some specific examples of a content usage application include but are not limited to video viewers such as MPEG4 compatible viewers video editors photo viewer and editors word processors email applications Instant Messaging IM applications audio players such as MP3 etc. It is to be understood that the user device may have and employ various content usage applications and that content usage application is only one example of a usage application that may be available for use on user device . Furthermore it is to be understood that in addition to being a message generated by the user device a content request may be a message that is generated by a server and or an application residing on a server such as but not limited to an analysis application an aggregation application or any other application etc. For example analysis server or content usage application may generate a content request. In other words a content request may be generated by any requesting entity such as user device analysis server or some other server etc.

In accordance with the embodiments the access control manager may intercept the content request prior to the request being granted or denied and access rights being conferred to the user device. That is the access control manager obtains and evaluates metadata conditional rules associated with the content in question to verify whether the user or user device is authorized to perform the given usage activity on the content which then directly affects download and access rights. This process is dynamic in that as the user history of the user device changes the access rights that may be conferrable to the user device also changes. Therefore the access control manager dynamically confers access rights to the requesting entity such as user device in conjunction with the user history and the metadata conditional rules associated with a given content. Unlike previous systems for management of digital rights the present embodiments provide the advantage of a correlation between a first content and at least a second content to prevent certain usage activities from occurring that are undesirable to the first content author or owner. Likewise the correlation between the first content and the second content provide the advantage of enabling desirable usage activities to occur. These advantageous features were not possible using previous rights management systems.

It is therefore to be understood that in the various embodiments the content requests are not limited or restricted to requests to download or obtain viewing access to content. In accordance with the present disclosure content requests may be invoked by and or may include attempts to modify analyze or otherwise obtain content access that involves performing usage activities i.e. actions on or using the content in ways other than downloading or viewing of the content itself In one brief example a user may wish to use the content usage application of user device to create highlight scenes from a video content from content server . In accordance with the present embodiments the access control manager will obtain via the network the user history from database and the metadata which includes the conditional rules applicable to the video content. The access control manager will apply the rules based on the user history to determine whether the intended usage activity is allowable and if so will confer access rights that will enable the user device to obtain the content and or perform the usage activity. Therefore in this example the user device would be allowed to create the highlight scenes by editing the video content from content server . In another brief example the user device may have stored content such as first content second content up to n th content . The first content may have associated metadata which in this example is contained or embedded along with the first content . The user may attempt the usage activity of creating a mash up video by combining portions of the first content with portions of the second content and possibly portions of other content up to the n th content . For the present brief example the resultant content illustrated in may be the mash up video creatable by editing the first content and at least the second content . In accordance with the embodiments the usage activity of creating the mash up video will invoke access of the conditional rules contained in metadata for the first content . As shown in the access control manager may include a policy manager that acts to prevent undesirable and unauthorized usage activities for content. In the present example the access control manager policy manager may determine that the usage policy does not permit a mash up of the first content with the second content and will not confer access rights to the user device for this purpose. However a mash up may be permitted between the first content and the n th content . In this case the policy manager of the access control manager may confer access rights to the user device enabling the content usage application to operate i.e. perform usage activities on the first content and the n th content . One advantageous example use case of the above is to enable a content author owner for children s content to prevent video mash ups with adult content.

The access control manager may also include a privacy manager in some embodiments. The privacy manager may access the user history and or a user profile that contains user specific information. The privacy manager may restrict or prohibit certain information from being collected into metadata where that information is related to the user and the user s access to content or other metadata. In embodiments having a privacy manager the privacy manager works with the access control manager and policy manager to ensure that users who require no data collection in their context are not shown or provided content where the usage policy for that content requires data collection from the user in order to be consumed. In other words some content authors or owners may set usage policies where the content metadata conditional rules require certain types of information to be collected from the users. Because such information collection may not be appropriate for certain users the privacy manager may in some embodiments block content for those specific users.

Therefore as shown in the access control manager is also operatively coupled to the memory and may access metadata for content . The access control manager may also access meta content and meta content in some embodiments. The access control manager may also access metadata and possibly meta content which are associated with content and located on content server . The access control manager accesses the content server via the network . Because the content usage application can work with content located in memory and or content located on content server the access control manager may confer restrict or withdraw access rights to the user device for usage activities as appropriate for a given content usage policy for any such content. In the example embodiment of the user history is also located in memory . The access control manager therefore evaluates the metadata conditional rules based on the user history contained in memory . In one example of operation the user may attempt to use content usage application to create a mash up of content located on content server with content located in memory . Such a mash up may result in for example resultant content . In the present example resultant content is the result of some previous usage activity engaged in by user device which involved content and various other pieces of content up to and including n th content .

As one may understand there may be situations in which several pieces of content are involved and where one or more have associated metadata with conditional rules. In such scenarios the policy manager must evaluate each conditional rule set for each piece of content. In other words the policy manager ensures that the usage policy for any piece of content will not be violated provided that the piece of content has the metadata conditional rules in accordance with the embodiments. Therefore continuing with the example of operation the access control manager will receive content requests for content and content . It is to be understood that content requests may be related to user attempted usage activities as was discussed briefly above with respect to . For example when the user runs content usage application and attempts to perform a usage activity with a given piece of content this action may constitute sending a content request in accordance with some embodiments. In other words the attempt to access content and content via content usage application may constitute sending a content request for content and another content request for content . The access control manager will receive both of these content requests. As shown in content has associated metadata and content has associated metadata . Both metadata and metadata contain conditional rules for their respective pieces of content content and content . Therefore the policy manager must evaluate both conditional rules sets in conjunction with the user history before the policy manager can determine what if any access rights can be conferred to user device . For example the usage policy for content may permit creating the mash up with content . However the usage policy for content may not allow the mash up with content . Therefore in this example the policy manager would enforce the usage policy of content and prevent the content usage application from accessing content to create the content mash up. In other words the policy manager may enforce the most restrictive conditional rule when multiple conditional rule sets are involved. Although in the present example the usage policy for content prevented creation of the mash up with content the usage policy may allow other usage activities such as viewing content . Various other usage scenarios in accordance with the embodiments may occur to those of ordinary skill.

It is to be understood that the various embodiments operate independently from or in conjunction with other unrelated digital rights management DRM regimes. For example content and content may be subject to a DRM regime in addition to having the metadata conditional rules of the various embodiments. In one example content may be subject to a DRM regime in which user device is not authorized to access or copy content . The DRM regime would therefore prevent user device from accessing or copying content independently from the usage policy requirements of the herein disclosed embodiments. Put another way each piece of content may be subject to other DRM requirements in addition to the usage policy of the various embodiments. Therefore the usage policies in accordance with the embodiments may be supplemental or in addition to any other existing DRM regimes to which a piece of content is subject. The various embodiments may operate along with such other DRM regimes to provide content authors owners with the advantages of being able to set and enforce usage policies in accordance with the embodiments.

In the example of the user device operates similarly to the user devices illustrated in and . However in accordance with the embodiment illustrated in a content request message will be sent from the user device to the access control manager via the network . More specifically the content usage application which may be a software application executing on processor may cause a content request to be sent to the access control manager by an attempted usage activity with content located in memory of user device . The processor is operatively coupled to the memory via for example a communication bus . As in the embodiments of and the memory may store various pieces of content such as first content second content up to an n th content . The first content may have associated metadata which includes the conditional rules in accordance with the embodiments. The first content may also have associated meta content in some embodiments. Likewise the second content may have associated meta content in some embodiments and may also have associated metadata. In the example of the user history is also stored in memory .

In one example of operation the user may use the content usage application and attempt to create a content mash up using a first content and a second content both located in memory and a third content located on the content server . In the present example first content includes metadata having conditional rules in accordance with the embodiments. Content has associated metadata also having conditional rules in accordance with the embodiments. Second content does not have any associated metadata with conditional rules although second content and the other content may be subject to some other DRM requirements.

The user s attempt to edit the first content will cause a content request to be sent via network to the content access control manager of content server . The access control manager will access the metadata to obtain the conditional rules applicable to the first content and will obtain metadata from the content server for the third content . The access control manager will also access the user history . Because the second content does not have associated metadata and therefore does not have any associated conditional rules there is nothing to access by the access control manager . However the conditional rules of one or both of metadata and metadata may be correlated to the second content in some way. For example the conditional rules of metadata may prohibit first content from being combined with second content thereby prohibiting the mash up. However the metadata conditional rules may permit a mash up with second content but prohibit a mash up with first content . In this example scenario the policy manager would prevent the usage activity of combining first content with second content . However the access control manager would confer access rights to the user device so that the content usage application may access content from the content server and create the mash up of content with second content to produce resultant content .

A content mash up as described briefly above is created by combining portions of two or more pieces of content to create a resultant content. In accordance with the embodiments such a mash up may be created between the same or different content types. The mash up may be considered for example a derivative work in some circumstances. As would be expected authors owners of content may want to control use of portions or segments of their content when used by permission to create resultant content such as resultant content . In accordance with the embodiments the conditional rules relevant to specific content portions or segments will follow along with the resultant content. For example resultant content may be a mash up of second content and content as in the above operational example. As in the example second content does not have any associated conditional rules. Content however has associated metadata which contains conditional rules in accordance with the embodiments. The resultant content upon creation will have associated metadata that includes conditional rules in accordance with the embodiments. The conditional rules will be applicable to the content segments that form resultant content .

Therefore if the user of user device attempted to use content usage application to attempt a mash up between resultant content and first content the policy manager would evaluate conditional rules in metadata associated with resultant content . These conditional rules would follow from metadata for content . Therefore the content usage application would be prevented from editing resultant content to extract portions of content and attempt to combine them with first content . In other words portions of content protected by conditional rules would continue to be subject to the conditional rules even when the portions are included in a resultant content such as resultant content . Therefore in accordance with the embodiments a user could not circumvent a usage policy by creating a permissible mash up in order to edit out content and perform an impermissible usage activity.

In the access control manager obtains the user history at the time of the content usage request and applies the conditional rules to evaluate compliance with the content usage policy. The access control manager may obtain and access the user history via a pull operation. However a push operation may also be used in some embodiments. In one example embodiment the user history or relevant portions thereof may be sent to the access control manager in the content request or content usage request. Therefore in some embodiments the access control manager may obtain the user history parameters by reading the content request or content usage request. If use of the second content with the first content complies with the usage policy in the access control manager determines whether the usage activity is in compliance as shown in . If use of the second content with the first content does not comply with the usage policy in then all access to the second content may be denied as shown in . In one example this type of action may occur with respect to sequential viewing of content. For example an author owner of a series show may define a usage policy that prohibits the viewing of episodes out of sequence. That is if a user who viewed the first episode attempts to watch the third episode before viewing the second episode access to the third episode may be prohibited. However the embodiments confer access right dynamically. Therefore if the user thereafter viewed the second episode then the access control manager could confer access rights to view the third episode afterwards based on the changed user history. Various other ways of using the conditional rules may be envisioned in accordance with the embodiments in light of the teachings and examples provided herein.

Returning to if the usage activity using the second content complies with the usage policy of the first content in the embodiments confer access to the second content for the usage activity requested as shown in . However if non compliance is determined in then the usage activity will be prohibited for the second content as shown in . As discussed above in various examples the embodiments may confer access rights for other usage activities that are not prohibited as shown in . For example viewing may be allowable but editing may be prohibited.

The example conditional rule set is shown in readable pseudo code for purposes of understanding and explanation. The actual conditional rule set may in accordance with the embodiments be machine readable only and may further be encrypted in some embodiments. In the example of a first conditional rule disallows access for a given content if the user has accessed a specified content. The second conditional rule prevents creating mash ups unless the other content is owned by a specified author owner. The third conditional rule allows access only if the content came from a specified source and is of a specified number of days old. Based on the examples and descriptions provided herein other possible conditional rules may occur to those of ordinary skill in accordance with the embodiments. A conditional rule set is correlated to a piece of content and or meta content i.e. a correlated content when at least one of the conditional rules of the conditional rule set requires a condition related to the correlated content.

The conditional rules may be authored updated and or modified in various ways in accordance with the embodiments. In one example the access control manager may provide a user interface that author owners may access by a web page in some embodiments. The user interface may provide a dropdown list to identify a specific content or to upload a content to be protected. After the author owner has identified the content the user interface may provide a dropdown list of possible pre created rules for example in a human readable human understandable pseudo code format that may be selected using a cursor or mouse to construct a usage policy for the content. Based on selected rule types the user interface may also provide a dropdown list for other content that may be correlated with the author owner s content. The other content may in some embodiments be defined in a broad sense such as by other author owner content type content subject matter content date etc. or any other possible categorizations of content. The user interface may also provide an input screen for inputting additional information or adding additional other content which the author owner wished to correlate with the author owner s content using the conditional rule set. The author owner thereby constructs a usage policy for a specific piece of content in accordance with the embodiments. The user interface may also enable the author owner to create a global usage policy for some or all of the author owner s content using appropriate selectable options.

The various embodiments are not limited to conditional rules correlating other content. The usage policies and conditional rules in accordance with the embodiments may establish relationships based on user groups sequential access exclusive or functions or other Boolean functions historical contextual user history based location based social network based etc. without limitation. The various embodiments therefore provide among the other advantages the advantage of the capability of creating new types of content subscription services. For example users may subscribe together as a social group or group of friends. One use case example is that a user of the social group or group of friends may be conferred access to content A for free if no other friend accessed content A in the past month. If a friend has accessed content A in the past month then the user may be charged a fee to access content A. Based on the examples and description provided herein various other possible applications and scenarios may occur to those of ordinary skill in accordance with the embodiments. For example a social graph structure may be created that is used by the access control manager to determine how various members of a subscriber group can access content.

Various frameworks may be utilized to create construct the usage policies and associated metadata conditional rules in accordance with the embodiments. In one example embodiment a social graph distributed file system may be constructed using Apache Hadoop. The relationships may also be constructed or may include information using a Resource Description Framework RDF in some embodiments. The metadata and or conditional rules in accordance with the embodiments may employ or include information expressed in one or more Rights Expression Languages REL or may use proprietary formats. For example the various embodiments may utilize ccREL ODRL XrML MPEG 21 METSRights.

While various embodiments have been illustrated and described it is to be understood that the invention is not so limited. Numerous modifications changes variations substitutions and equivalents will occur to those skilled in the art without departing from the scope of the present invention as defined by the appended claims.

