---

title: Active ammunition magazine
abstract: An ammunition magazine for feeding linked ammunition to a weapon system having a power take off (PTO) may include a housing with a storage cavity for the linked ammunition. A drive shaft may be rotatably fixed to the housing and may include a driver on one end for selectively engaging the PTO. A drive sprocket may be mounted on the drive shaft for engaging and moving the linked ammunition in a feed direction. The drive sprocket may include first and second sprocket wheels that engage a cartridge portion of the linked ammunition. A pick-off round opening may be formed in the housing for presenting a pick-off round to the weapon system. A link chute may be disposed below the opening and including an exit for ammunition links.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08607683&OS=08607683&RS=08607683
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 08607683
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120306
---
The inventions described herein may be manufactured used and licensed by or for the U.S. Government for U.S. Government purposes.

The invention relates in general to weapon system ammunition magazines and in particular to ammunition magazines for automatically loading and reloading weapons.

A problem with some firearms and crew served weapons is the lack of integrated ammunition handling capabilities such as for example automated or remotely operated weapon reloading for manned or unmanned vehicle platforms or fixed emplacements such as buildings or towers. This problem has existed since the development of automatic weapons and linked ammunition. The problem has become greater with the recent development of and demand for Remote Weapon Systems RWS such as the Common Remotely Operated Weapon Station CROWS . For example CROWS may have a supply of readily available ammunition but reloading the depleted ammunition required human intervention at the weapon. Such human intervention increases the risk of injury or death and inherently defeats the purpose of fielding RWS and installing them on platforms sites where human intervention for reloading is plainly not desirable.

There may be no known apparatus that can remotely and automatically load linked ammunition into weapon. One way of solving this problem may be to modify existing ammunition magazines which are simple boxes for storage and transport. Known ammunition magazines would require extensive modifications to enable their use with automated ammunition handling systems and to facilitate the weapon loading processes. Known magazines would also require the addition of a complicated mechanism to interface the magazine to the weapon. And modifying known magazines to provide precise and full control of the linked ammunition would compromise the realization of desired performance features such as first round select partial magazine use high reliability full and accurate ammunition inventory etc.

A long felt and unsolved need exists for ammunition magazines that may be remotely and automatically loaded to and unloaded from a weapon while providing precise control of the ammunition position and ammunition feed for high variable rate of fire.

It is an object of the invention to provide an ammunition magazine for linked ammunition that can be automatically loaded to and unloaded from a weapon.

One aspect of the invention is an ammunition magazine for feeding linked ammunition to a weapon system having a power take off PTO . The ammunition magazine may include a housing that defines a storage cavity for the linked ammunition. A drive shaft may be rotatably fixed to the housing. The drive shaft may include a driver on one end for selectively engaging the PTO. The driver may be disposed external to the housing.

A drive sprocket may be mounted on the drive shaft for engaging and moving the linked ammunition in a feed direction. The drive sprocket may include first and second sprocket wheels that engage a cartridge portion of the linked ammunition. A back ratchet may be pivotally mounted to the housing. The back ratchet may selectively engage the drive sprocket to prevent movement of the drive sprocket in a direction opposite the feed direction. A pick off round opening may be formed in the housing for presenting a pick off round of the linked ammunition to the weapon system. A link chute may be disposed below the opening and include an exit opening for ammunition links.

The drive sprocket may include a third sprocket wheel that engages a link portion of the linked ammunition.

Indentations may be formed on opposing edges of an external surface of the housing. A retaining rod opening may be formed in one side of the housing.

The magazine may include a retainer disposed in the link chute for retaining empty ammunition links. The retainer may include a flap and a spring wherein the spring biases the flap into the link chute.

A pick off round retainer may be disposed adjacent to the pick off round opening. The pick off round retainer may include a leaf spring having one end fixed to the housing and another end for engaging the pick off round.

In some embodiments the drive sprocket may be fixed to the drive shaft for rotation therewith. The drive sprocket may include a ratchet wheel. The back ratchet may selectively engage the ratchet wheel to prevent movement of the drive sprocket in a direction opposite the feed direction. The back ratchet may be biased towards the ratchet wheel.

In other embodiments the drive sprocket may be rotatably mounted on the drive shaft. The drive sprocket may include a first ratchet plate fixed thereto. The magazine may further include a second ratchet plate translatably disposed on the drive shaft adjacent to the first ratchet plate. The second ratchet plate may be translatably biased towards the first ratchet plate and rotatable with the first ratchet plate in the feed direction. The first ratchet plate may not rotate with the second ratchet plate in the direction opposite the feed direction.

The second sprocket wheel may include first and second sets of teeth. The first set of teeth may extend radially further than the second set of teeth. The second set of teeth may selectively engage the back ratchet. Teeth in the second set of teeth may include respective rounded surfaces and flat surfaces. The rounded surfaces may contact the back ratchet when the drive shaft rotates in the feed direction. The flat surfaces may contact the back ratchet when the drive shaft rotates in the direction opposite the feed direction.

The invention will be better understood and further objects features and advantages thereof will become more apparent from the following description of the preferred embodiments taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.

An active ammunition magazine may allow automated loading of stowed linked ammunition to a weapon system. The weapon system may be configured in different calibers for example 7.62 mm .50 calibers etc. The rounds or cartridges may be linked together in a belt using known links. Using remote control the active magazine may present stowed linked ammunition to a weapon for firing. The active magazine may facilitate automated loading and unloading of linked ammunition to a weapon. The active magazine may enable storage of linked ammunition and enable remote loading and resupply. The active magazine may be locked to the weapon and after actuation of the weapon the magazine may precisely present ammunition to the weapon.

The design of the active magazine may decouple a total ammunition stowage mass from the weapon. Decoupling the ammunition stowage mass from the weapon decreases the total mass that is subject to aiming and stabilization performance. Because multiple active magazines may be automatically loaded and unloaded each individual active magazine may not need to contain as many rounds as known magazines. Thus the mass of a single active magazine may be less than the mass of a known magazine.

The active magazines may be loaded with different types of ammunition thereby enhancing mission flexibility. The active magazines may be remotely stowed. The ability to stow and reload magazines remotely and automatically may enable much longer firing engagement times and may enable different types of firing engagements without human intervention at the weapon to either reload or change the ammunition type.

The active magazine may include among others the following capabilities a under armor resupply b first round select c partial magazine use d high reliability and e true robotic application.

Magazine may be remotely and automatically transported from an unloaded position shown in and B to a loaded position shown in and D using for example a transport mechanism disclosed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 622 355. Magazine may be held in the loaded position on a track by for example spring loaded plungers not shown that engage indentations or notches formed in opposing pairs on guide rails of ammunition magazine and or by a cross pin that may be removably insertable in an opening in ammunition housing . A solenoid may provide the means to translate cross pin into and out of opening . Other means may be used to secure magazine in the loaded position.

Magazine may include a driver disposed on an exterior of housing . One example of driver is shown enlarged in . Driver may engage a power take off PTO when magazine is in the loaded position. One example of a PTO is shown enlarged in . PTO may be driven directly by weapon or may be driven by a separate power supply such as for example an electric motor.

Referring to housing of magazine may define a storage cavity for linked or belted ammunition. The linked ammunition may include a plurality of cartridges or rounds cartridge or round is the pick off round linked together with known belt links . Three rounds and five links two empty three with rounds are shown in however the number of linked rounds is only constrained by the capacity of storage cavity . The dashed line B in indicates a feed path of an ammunition belt containing a plurality of rounds and links .

Housing may include a pick off round opening formed therein for presenting a pick off round to weapon . Pick off round may be positioned in magazine so that weapon may extract it from magazine when magazine and weapon are connected . Pick off round may be pushed forward through magazine as shown by the arrow A in . A link chute may be disposed below pick off round opening for guiding empty links away from pick off round opening . Housing may include a link chute exit opening for disposing of links in link chute .

To help maintain the correct position of pick off round magazine may include a pick off round retainer in the form of one or more leaf springs . Leaf springs may have one end See fixed to housing and another end for contacting pick off round . Magazine may include another retainer for pick off round in the form of a lip formed at a bottom of pick off round opening .

Pick off round may be pushed in a forward direction arrow A in out of its link by an extraction mechanism not shown in weapon . After pushing out pick off round the extraction mechanism may need to return to its original position. In this regard it may be important that the empty link in pick off round opening not move until the extraction mechanism has finished its return stroke and cleared pick off round opening . Lip and leaf springs may help maintain the position of empty link in pick off round opening .

But empty link may by the force of gravity move downward into link chute . To prevent this from happening a link chute flap and B D and E may be rotatable into chute . Flap may be pivotally mounted on a shaft B D and E . A spring may bias flap into the link chute . Flap may function to hold a column of empty links in chute thereby providing support for the empty link in pick off round opening . As shown in flap may bias empty links against a portion of housing .

In two empty links are shown in link chute . When the next round moves into pick off round opening the bottom empty link will fall downward into chute and out exit opening . Flap will spring back and support the remaining empty links in chute .

Driver may provide an oscillating rotary motion to drive shaft . As shown in driver may be in the form of a generally U shaped hub defining a slot therein. PTO and E may have a coupling in the form of a pin for insertion in slot . Pin may move in an oscillating rotary motion. is a perspective sectional view of ammunition magazine in a position prior to engagement with PTO . In magazine may be moving upward toward weapon . Pin of PTO is positioned to be inserted in slot of driver . In magazine is in its loaded position and pin of PTO is disposed in slot of driver . As shown by the arrow in the enlarged view of PTO and pin may oscillate. The oscillating motion of pin is transferred to driver and drive shaft . As will be explained below other types of input motion may be used for driver . The oscillating rotary motion of PTO and pin is one example of input motion to magazine .

Driver may be fixed to one end of a drive shaft that passes through housing . Drive shaft may be rotatably fixed to housing . is a perspective view of the drive components of magazine without magazine housing . An end of drive shaft opposite driver may be rotatably disposed in an opening in a side of housing . A drive sprocket may be mounted on drive shaft for engaging and moving linked ammunition in the feed direction. In the embodiment of drive sprocket may be rotatably mounted on drive shaft . Drive sprocket may include one or more sprocket wheels and . As shown in sprocket wheels and may engage the cartridges or rounds . Sprocket wheel may engage links on rounds .

The oscillating rotary motion of driver may be transformed into an intermittent one way rotary motion for drive sprocket using the components shown in . Driver may be fixed to drive shaft . Drive sprocket may rotate with respect to drive shaft . One end of drive sprocket may include a ratchet plate that rotates with drive sprocket . Another ratchet plate may be mounted on drive shaft adjacent to ratchet plate . Ratchet plate may be fixed for rotation with drive shaft using for example a splined connection. Ratchet plate may be translatable on drive shaft . Ratchet plate may be translatably biased toward ratchet plate using for example a spring . Spring may extend between ratchet plate and a spring stop . Spring stop may be fixed to drive shaft . In the feed direction is clockwise rotation of drive shaft when viewed from the driver end of drive shaft . During rotation of drive shaft in the feed direction ratchet plate engages and rotates with ratchet plate .

When driver rotates in the counter feed direction back ratchet may engage drive sprocket to prevent rotation of drive sprocket in the counter feed direction. Ratchet plate may disengage from ratchet plate and ratchet plate may rotate in the counter feed direction. When driver changes direction of rotation back to the feed direction spring may force ratchet plate into rotational engagement with ratchet plate .

Back ratchet may be pivotally mounted on a shaft which is fixed to housing . Back ratchet may selectively engage drive sprocket to prevent movement of drive sprocket in the counter feed direction. A torsion spring may be mounted on shaft to bias back ratchet toward drive sprocket . A pair of torsion spring stops may be included for torsion spring see also . Stop may be in the form of a shaft or rod that is fixed to housing . Stop best seen in may be in the form of a projection extending from back ratchet .

Sprocket wheel may include first and second sets of teeth . Teeth may extend radially further than teeth . Teeth may be used to selectively engage back ratchet . To this end each tooth may include a rounded surface and a flat surface . Rounded surfaces may contact back ratchet when drive shaft rotates in the feed direction. Flat surfaces may contact back ratchet when drive shaft rotates in the counter feed direction.

The inventive linked ammunition magazine can be loaded and unloaded from a weapon remotely and automatically. The internal drive mechanisms of the magazines and the pick off round opening enable the magazine to be robotically placed in and removed from an operating position with respect to a firearm. Human intervention to start an ammunition belt in the firearm is not required. The magazine may be partially depleted removed from the weapon and then reloaded in the weapon. Multiple magazines may be loaded and unloaded in any desired sequence. The capability to load multiple magazines without human intervention decreases the mass coupled to the weapon. The decreased mass coupled to the weapon facilitates faster and more accurate positioning and aiming of the weapon improved stabilization performance and reduced overall power requirements. The capability to load multiple magazines also enhances mission flexibility. Individual magazines may store different types of ammunition which may then be loaded to the weapon to suit the engagement.

While the invention has been described with reference to certain preferred embodiments numerous changes alterations and modifications to the described embodiments are possible without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined in the appended claims and equivalents thereof.

