---

title: Frequency agile high power microwave generator
abstract: A Multi-Cycle Digital High Power Microwave (MCD-HPM) source includes a microwave transmission line (MTL) to which a plurality electrically charged thin film transmission lines (TFTL's) are connected by switches. The switches are activated in sequence to generate a square wave at a microwave output frequency. The activation signal is controlled by a free space time delay, which can vary the timing and/or routing of the activation signal by modifying at least one free space element, thereby adjusting the switch activation timing and varying the output frequency. In embodiments, the switches are photo-conducting switches, the activation signal is a laser beam, and the switch timing is varied by reorienting and/or repositioning mirrors and/or other elements in the free space time delay. The elements can be manually adjusted, or mounted on motorized stages and automatically controlled. Optical amplifiers can be included to compensate for losses in the time delay elements.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09306371&OS=09306371&RS=09306371
owner: BAE Systems Information and Electronic Systems Intergration Inc.
number: 09306371
owner_city: Nashua
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120420
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Applications No. 61 508 804 filed Jul. 18 2011 which is herein incorporated by reference in its entirety for all purposes.

The invention was made with United States Government assistance under contract no. W9113M 10 C 0008 awarded by the US Army. The United States Government has certain rights in the invention.

The invention relates to high power microwave systems and more particularly to apparatus and methods for multi cycle digital synthesis of high power microwaves.

There has been considerable interest recently in high power microwave HPM sources for use in nonlethal directed energy weaponry. The ever increasing reliance on the use of microprocessors that have an increasing density of circuits packaged on a chip causes such systems to be highly vulnerable to HPM attack. Many of the HPM sources that are being developed are derivatives of sources that are well known to the vacuum electronics community. Others are unique to the HPM community and have no analog in traditional microwave sources.

One non traditional approach to generating HPM pulses is referred to generally as relativistic beam HPM. In this approach high voltage capacitors together with fast switching techniques are used to generate a short tailored high voltage pulse. The pulse is then applied to an electron gun also known as an electron beam diode. The electron beam diode produces a high perveance electron beam where space charge effects dominate the interaction. The relativistic electron beam once generated propagates through an rf interaction region which converts the beam s kinetic energy to HPM.

However relativistic beam based HPM is limited in both maximum power 10 GW and lifetime due to electric field limits in the cavity and substantial cavity erosion. For these and other reasons the relativistic beam approach to HPM appears unlikely to provide the mega Joule energy and terra Watt power required for various defense missions.

A non traditional method that avoids the limitations of relativistic beam HPM is called multi cycle digital HPM or MCD HPM. MCD HPM is a method of digital microwave generation whereby multiple HPM sources are arrayed and triggered by a plurality of photoconductive switches that are controlled by a single coherent laser source. With reference to in one approach a Switch Bypass Source SBS circuit is composed of two continuous transmission line plates which are connected to a load at their distant end not shown . Between the transmission line plates are quarter wave long plates forming upper and lower thin film transmission lines TFTL s which are charged and are alternately connected by photoconductive switches to the upper and lower transmission line plates . In similar approaches the TFTL s are alternately charged and are all connected to the same plate.

The photoconductive switches are closed one by one beginning with the switch furthest from the load by sequential application of a laser beam thereby generating a train of energy pulses of alternating polarity that propagates down the transmission line . The switches are closed according to a timing that allows previously generated pulses to pass by each switch before it is closed which is why the term switch bypass is used. Each switch then adds an additional energy pulse to the rear of the passing pulse train.

The timing by which the laser beam is applied sequentially to the photoconductive switches causes the alternating energy pulses to approximate a square wave at a desired microwave frequency. With reference to the result is a high power microwave pulse with a duration determined by the number of TFTL s included in the transmission line and with a frequency determined by the timing of the switch activations. is a presentation of modeling results for a digitally synthesized equal frequency microwave pulse generated using 66 TFTL s.

Typically the timing of the photoconductive switch activations is determined by the relative lengths of fiber optic connections that convey the light from the laser source to the various switches. Once the fiber optics have been selected and installed the output frequency is essentially fixed. Any change to a different microwave output frequency would require a time consuming difficult and expensive process of selecting and installing new fiber optics having different lengths.

It would be desirable to quickly and easily change the output frequency of an MCD HPM so that the system could be used to affect a variety of targets having different microwave frequency sensitivities. However in the prior art there has been no known method for doing so.

What is needed therefore is an apparatus and method for quickly and conveniently changing the output frequency of a multi cycle digital high power microwave source.

A Multi Cycle Digital High Power Microwave MCD HPM source includes a microwave transmission line MTL to which are connected a plurality of thin film transmission lines TFTL s . The TFTL s are connected to the microwave transmission line by switches that are activated in a desired sequence by an activation signal. The timing and sequence by which the activation signal is applied to the switches is controlled by a free space time delay which thereby controls the output frequency of the MCD HPM. The output frequency of the MCD HPM is controlled and varied by repositioning at least one element in the free path of the free path delay thereby adjusting the timing and or the sequence of switch activations.

In various embodiments the switches are photoconductive switches the timing signal is a beam of light and the free path is adjusted by a repositioning and or reorienting mirrors and or other optical elements. In some of these embodiments the beam of light is generated by a laser. In certain of these embodiments the mirrors or other elements are mounted on motorized stages and repositioned and or reoriented under control of an activation signal controller.

In certain embodiments optical amplifiers are included which amplify the activation signal in compensation for any losses due to mirrors and or other components that control the free path.

The features and advantages described herein are not all inclusive and in particular many additional features and advantages will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art in view of the drawings specification and claims. Moreover it should be noted that the language used in the specification has been principally selected for readability and instructional purposes and not to limit the scope of the inventive subject matter.

The present invention is a Multi Cycle Digital High Power Microwave MCD HPM source that enables convenient and rapid adjustment of the microwave output frequency. The invention is applicable to an MCD HPM apparatus having a configuration similar to the prior art configuration shown in which includes a microwave transmission line MTL to which a plurality of thin film transmission lines TFTL s are connected by a plurality of switches . The switches are closed by an activating signal in a sequence and with a timing that causes a train of energy pulses of alternating polarity to propagate down the transmission line . The timing and sequence by which the activating signal is applied to the switches causes the alternating energy pulses to approximate a square wave at a desired microwave frequency.

For conventional MCD HPM devices the output frequency is essentially fixed by the lengths of the fiber optics used to deliver the activating signal to the switches. In contrast the output frequency of the present invention includes a novel apparatus and method that control and adjust the timing and or sequence of the activating signal which controls the timing and or sequence in which the switches are activated and the energy pulses are generated thereby controlling and adjusting the microwave output frequency. Specifically the activation signal is controlled by a free space time delay and the output frequency of the MCD HPM is controlled by repositioning and or reorienting at least one element in the free path of the free path delay thereby adjusting the timing of the activation signal and or the activation sequence of the switches.

With reference to in embodiments the switches are photoconductive switches and the activation signal is a light beam which in some embodiments is a laser beam. In the embodiment of the free path of a laser beam is controlled by a plurality of polarizing beam splitters quarter wave plates and partially transmitting mirrors . The beam splitters are configured to reflect or transmit light according to its linear polarity. Light that is linearly polarized along a transmission axis will be transmitted while light that is linearly polarized perpendicular to the transmission axis will be reflected. The quarter wave plates are configured to rotate the polarization of the laser beam by 45 degrees each time it passes through the quarter wave plate. The partially transmitting mirrors are configured to transmit a fraction of impinging light while reflecting the remainder. In embodiments the partially transmitting mirrors transmit approximately 80 of the impinging light and reflect the other 20 .

In the embodiment of laser light enters the free space apparatus polarized along the transmission axis of the first beam splitter so that it passes though the beam splitter essentially without reflection. After passing through the splitter the polarization of the beam is rotated 45 degrees by the first quarter wave plate and then amplified by an optical amplifier after which it strikes the first mirror . Some of the light passes through the mirror and enters a fiber optic not shown which delivers it to a first photoconductive switch. The remainder of the light is reflected from the mirror is amplified a second time by the first optical amplifier and passes a second time through the first quarter wave plate . This second passage through the first quarter wave plate rotates the light by an additional 45 degrees so that it has been rotated a total of 90 degrees relative to its initial polarization and is therefore reflected by the beam splitter . Note that the optical amplifier compensates for the loss of light transmitted through the mirror and for any losses in the other components.

The light then strikes the second beam splitter which is oriented so as to reflect the beam to a second partially transmitting mirror . Once again some of the light passes through the mirror and enters a fiber optic which delivers it to a second photoconductive switch. The remaining light is reflected back to the mirror . A double passage through a second quarter wave plate rotates the polarization of the light by 90 degrees so that it passes through the beam splitter through another quarter wave plate and through a second optical amplifier . Some of the light passes through a third mirror and into a fiber optic that delivers it to a third photoconductive switch while the remaining light is reflected back through the second optical amplifier and the quarter wave plate . The double passage through the quarter wave plate reorients the polarization of the light so that it is reflected by the beam splitter and directed to the third beam splitter

The transit of the laser beam continues through the system according to the pattern described above providing light to a series of fiber optic outputs and thence to series of photoconductive switches. In the final stage the quarter wave plate is omitted and the partially transmitting mirror is replaced by a simpler unit that includes only a fiber optic port and in some embodiments also an optical attenuator. Assuming that all of the fiber optics are equal in length the timing by which the switches are activated is determined by the optical path lengths between the mirrors. Note that for clarity of illustration the reflected laser beam paths are shown in as being slightly offset from each other. In actuality the reflected beam paths typically overlap and if accurately depicted would appear as single overlapping lines.

Control and adjustment of the optical path lengths and thereby control of the activation timing is realized in by physical movement of some of elements in the path. Specifically two of the partially transmitting mirrors and the final exit port are mounted on motorized stages and are automatically repositioned as needed by an activation signal controller not shown . It can be seen that in general every other mirror or exit port in the optical path is mounted on a motorized stage. Movement of a mirror or exit port causes a corresponding change in distance between that mirror or exit port and both the preceding and subsequent mirror. As a result the timing between switch activations is increased or decreased.

Note that in the embodiment of the output of each translatable mirror or exit port is physically connected to an end of a fiber optic that travels with the mirror or port. Therefore movement of a mirror or output port does not change the time required for the light to travel from the mirror or output port to the photoconductive switch.

Although only six outputs are illustrated in it should be clear that an almost arbitrary number of outputs can be provided by simply repeating the pattern of components illustrated in the figure as many times as is desired.

While the embodiment of is limited to automatic repositioning of mirrors other embodiments include manual and or automatic movement of other components as well as manual and or automatic reorientation of components. is a simplified diagram illustrating an arrangement of partially reflecting mirrors quarter wave plates beam splitters and fully reflecting mirrors configured to provide light sequentially to a series of outputs and from thence to a series of photoconductive switches. In the embodiment of the fully reflective mirrors and the beam splitters are mounted on rotating stages that are controlled by an orientation controller not shown . By reorienting the fully reflective mirrors and the beam splitters as shown in the laser light can be delivered to every other output sequentially thereby changing the sequence in which the switches are activated. Note that present a simplified example for the sake of illustrating a principle. In actual embodiments both the orientations and locations of components are controlled so as to adjust both the sequence and the timing of the switch activations. In some embodiments the components are not arranged in a linear fashion as shown but are arranged in a circle or in some other configuration.

The foregoing description of the embodiments of the invention has been presented for the purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise form disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible in light of this disclosure. It is intended that the scope of the invention be limited not by this detailed description but rather by the claims appended hereto.

