---

title: Business platform voice interactions
abstract: According to some embodiments, a user device may receive business enterprise information from a remote enterprise server. The user device may then automatically convert at least some of the business enterprise information into speech output provided to a user of the user device. Speech input from the user may be received via and converted by the user device. The user device may then interact with the remote enterprise server in accordance with the converted speech input and the business enterprise information.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09524713&OS=09524713&RS=09524713
owner: SAP SE
number: 09524713
owner_city: Walldorf
owner_country: DE
publication_date: 20120530
---
Some embodiments relate to systems and methods associated with interactions between a user and a business platform. More specifically some embodiments are directed to systems and methods to facilitate voice interactions between a user and a business platform.

Users may interact and or exchange information with a business enterprise application. For example a user might access a remote business enterprise server via his or her smartphone to review and approve a purchase request. Typically a keyboard or touch screen is used to interact with a business server. For example the user might touch an Accept icon to approve a pending purchase order.

Under certain circumstances these types of interactions with a business enterprise application may be impractical and error prone. For example when a user is focused on other tasks e.g. reading a financial report or driving an automobile it might be difficult for him or her to receive and or provide business enterprise information via a keyboard or touch screen.

Accordingly methods and mechanisms to efficiently accurately and or automatically facilitate interactions between a user and a business platform may be provided in accordance with some embodiments described herein.

Some embodiments provide a system method program code and or means to facilitate voice interactions between a user and a business server. According to some embodiments a user device may receive business enterprise information from a remote enterprise server. The user device may then automatically convert at least some of the business enterprise information into speech output provided to a user of the user device. Speech input from the user may be received via and converted by the user device. The user device may then interact with the remote enterprise server in accordance with the converted speech input and the business enterprise information.

With these and other advantages and features that will become hereinafter apparent further information may be obtained by reference to the following detailed description and appended claims and to the figures attached hereto.

Users may interact and or exchange information with a business enterprise application. For example a user might access a remote business enterprise server via his or her smartphone to review and approve a purchase request. Typically a keyboard or touch screen is used to interact with a business server. For example the user might touch an Accept icon to approve a pending purchase order.

Under certain circumstances these types of interactions with a business enterprise application may be impractical and error prone. For example when a user is focused on other tasks e.g. reading a financial report or driving an automobile it might be difficult for him or her to receive and or provide business enterprise information via a keyboard or touch screen. To address such problems is a block diagram of a system according to some embodiments. The system includes a mobile user device that can exchange business enterprise information such as purchase requests or other operations associated with a business work flow. The mobile user device might be associated with by ways of example only a mobile computer a smartphone a gaming device a navigation device a music player or glasses having a lens based display.

The mobile user device may exchange business enterprise information with an enterprise server . By way of example only the enterprise server might be associated with an Enterprise Resource Planning ERP server a business services gateway a HyperText Transfer Protocol HTTP server and or an Advanced Business Application Programming ABAP server.

According to some embodiments the enterprise server may directly communicate with one or more remote mobile user devices via the Internet. According to other embodiments a gateway may be provided between the enterprise server and the mobile user devices . The mobile user devices may include one or more processors to receive electronic files and or to execute applications and or components e.g. a plug in that is integrated to a smartphone .

Note that represents a logical architecture for the system according to some embodiments and actual implementations may include more or different components arranged in other manners. Moreover each system described herein may be implemented by any number of devices in communication via any number of other public and or private networks. Two or more of devices may be located remote from one another and may communicate with one another via any known manner of network s and or a dedicated connection. Further each device may comprise any number of hardware and or software elements suitable to provide the functions described herein as well as any other functions. Other topologies may be used in conjunction with other embodiments.

Any of the devices illustrated in including the enterprise server and mobile user device may exchange information via any communication network which may be one or more of a Local Area Network LAN a Metropolitan Area Network MAN a Wide Area Network WAN a proprietary network a Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN a Wireless Application Protocol WAP network a Bluetooth network a wireless LAN network and or an Internet Protocol IP network such as the Internet an intranet or an extranet. Note that any devices described herein may communicate via one or more such communication networks.

All systems and processes discussed herein may be embodied in program code stored on one or more computer readable media. Such media may include for example a floppy disk a CD ROM a DVD ROM magnetic tape OR solid state Random Access Memory RAM or Read Only Memory ROM storage units. Embodiments are therefore not limited to any specific combination of hardware and software.

According to some embodiments the mobile user device may facilitate voice interactions between a user and the enterprise server . For example is a flow diagram of a process that might be associated with the illustration of the system of according to some embodiments. Note that all processes described herein may be executed by any combination of hardware and or software. The processes may be embodied in program code stored on a tangible medium and executable by a computer to provide the functions described herein. Further note that the flow charts described herein do not imply a fixed order to the steps and embodiments of the present invention may be practiced in any order that is practicable.

At a user device may receive business enterprise information from a remote enterprise server. The user device might comprise for example a mobile computer a smartphone a gaming device a navigation device a music player or a pair of glasses with a lens mounted display. According to other embodiments the user device may instead comprise a personal computer or a kiosk. The remote enterprise server might be associated with for example an Enterprise Resource Planning ERP application a Customer Relationship Management CRM application and or an Advanced Business Application Programming ABAP application.

At the user device may automatically convert at least some of the business enterprise information into speech output provided to a user of the user device. For example the user device might read an email message to the user. According to some embodiments the conversion of the business enterprise information into the speech output is facilitated by an interaction engine executing at the user device via a text to speech connector communicating with a third party text to speech engine.

At speech input may be received from the user via the user device. The speech input may then be automatically converted at . For example the user device might listen to the user s words via a microphone and convert those sounds to text or any other machine readable code. According to some embodiments this conversion of speech input is facilitated by an interaction engine executing at the user device via a speech to text connector communicating with a third party speech to text engine. Moreover the conversion may be performed in accordance with model eXtensible Markup Language XML information and or an Application Programming Interface API .

At an interaction with the remote enterprise server may occur in accordance with the converted speech input and the business enterprise information. The interaction may be associated with for example a purchase request a purchase order a sales order contact information a workflow or a business an alert.

Consider for example which includes a mobile user device displaying information according to some embodiments. Initially the user device may receive business enterprise information from a remote enterprise server. For example when the user verbally instructs the user device to Check Inbox as illustrated by dialog balloon the user device might retrieve inbox information from the remote enterprise server. The user device may then automatically convert at least some of the inbox into speech output that is read to the user e.g. details about the purchase request as illustrated in . Speech input may be received from the user via the user device . In the example of the user speaks the word Approve and that speech input may then be automatically converted to text by the user device . Finally the user device may interact with the remote enterprise server in accordance with the converted speech input and the business enterprise information e.g. by transmitting an indication of approval for the purchase order .

Some embodiments of the present invention may be implemented via smartphones. For example is a block diagram of smartphone device according to some embodiments. Device may handle communication events including voice calls and email messages and facilitate voice interactions between a user and an enterprise application. Device may include functionality associated with different types of portable devices including Personal Digital Assistants PDAs digital media players digital cameras wireless email devices and any other device for receiving or transmitting various types of communications such as voice calls that is or becomes known.

Device includes voice call transceiver user interface module and text messager . Each element of device may comprise any combination of hardware and or software components suitable for providing the functions attributed thereto herein. Two or more of transceiver user interface module and text messager may share one or more constituent components and in some embodiments device may include unshown elements for providing the functions described herein.

Voice call transceiver may receive and transmit voice calls via any suitable protocol. Voice call transceiver may also receive caller information associated with received voice calls. The caller information may comprise caller ID information and or any other information that device may use to identify a party using the device and or from whom a voice call is received and such an identification may facilitate a speech to text conversion process .

A user input may be transmitted to voice call transceiver by user interface module . In this regard voice call transceiver may notify module of the reception of the voice call. User interface module may present a user interface to a user in response to the notification. The user interface examples of which are described below may facilitate voice interactions between a user and an enterprise application via the device and or similar devices.

User interface module may also instruct text messager to transmit a text message. In response text messager transmits a text message using a suitable text messaging service. The text messaging service may comprise any currently or hereafter known text messaging service. Conventional examples include IM SMS Multimedia Message Service MMS Enhanced Message Service EMS and electronic mail.

Communication history about enterprise server interactions handled by the voice call transceiver and or text messages may be stored at the device and or transmitted to a remote server. Moreover such information may be provided to the user as appropriate via the user interface module . As a result some embodiments of the system the process and or the device may provide more efficient and enhanced communications between a user and a business application than previously available. Although the device illustrated in may be associated with a wireless telephone network note that any of the embodiments described herein may be associated with other types of devices including devices that exchange information e.g. voice and data via circuit switched or packet switched protocols e.g. Internet Protocol IP packets .

Also included in the cellular telephone are internal memory and removable memory . Internal memory may include one or more of ROM read only memory RAM random access memory e.g. static RAM and flash memory. Removable memory may comprise a flash memory a Subscriber Identity Module SIM card or any other removable memory that is or becomes known. Cellular telephone may therefore be equipped with an interface for physically receiving and transferring data to and from removable memory .

Note that a communication event database might be stored in the internal memory and or the removable memory . Memories and may also store program code that is executable by processor to control telephone . The program code may include but is not limited to operating system program code application program code device driver program code and database connector program code. The program code may include code to cause cellular telephone to perform functions that are described herein. In some embodiments the program code is executable to provide a voice call transceiver a user interface module and a text messager as described with respect to .

Memories and may also store data used in the operation of cellular telephone . Such data may include phone numbers addresses access codes stored audio files text corresponding to the stored audio files and other data. Some or all of the data may be read only while other of the data may be rewritable.

Analog digital coder decoder ND codec is also in communication with processor . ND codec may receive analog signals from microphone including speech input from a user convert the analog signals to digital signals and pass the digital signals to processor . Conversely processor may transmit digital signals to ND codec which converts the digital signals to analog signals and passes the analog signals to speaker . Speaker then emits sound based on the analog signals including according to some embodiments speech output .

RF receiver transmitter is operatively coupled to antenna . RF receiver transmitter may in accordance with conventional practices comprise a combination of two or more different receive transmit modules not separately shown that operate in accordance with mutually different radio communication protocols to provide various services for the cellular telephone . For example receiver transmitter may operate in accordance with one radio communication protocol to provide conventional two way service for cellular telephone and may operate in accordance with another radio communication protocol to provide PoC service for cellular telephone .

Those in the art will understand that the block diagram of is simplified in a number of ways. For example all power and power management components of cellular telephone are omitted from the diagram. Also some embodiments may employ an internal architecture somewhat different or completely different from that shown in .

Architecture includes operating system which may comprise architecture of . In such a case application environment and communications environment may correspond respectively to the connectivity framework and the connectivity plug ins of architecture . Generally application environment provides a platform by which another application environment may interface with operating system . Application environment may comprise a C Java or any other programming environment. As such plug in applications may be written in Java or C for execution by cellular telephone. Plug in applications may also be written for the application interface provided by application environment .

Communications environment provides plug in applications with access to the communications functionality of operating system . This functionality may include text messaging Web browsing and of course telephone communication. Plug in applications may also transmit data and commands to and receive input from user interface drivers for control of the user interfaces of the smartphone.

According to some embodiments an application executing in the application environment transmits and or receives information in accordance with voice interactions between a user and a remote business server. For example is an example of a mobile user device display according to some embodiments. In this case the user is informed that he or she is receiving an alert generated by a business enterprise server because sales have fallen below a user defined threshold value over the last hour. The user then speaks some simple commands into a microphone of the mobile user device e.g. send sales report and initiate business process . The mobile user device converts the user s speech and interacts with the remote business server to ensure that the commands are executed as appropriate.

The processor communicates with a storage device . The storage device may comprise any appropriate information storage device including combinations of magnetic storage devices e.g. a hard disk drive optical storage devices and or semiconductor memory devices. The storage device stores a program for controlling the processor . The processor performs instructions of the program and thereby operates in accordance with any of the embodiments described herein. For example the processor may receive business enterprise information from a remote enterprise server. The processor may then automatically convert at least some of the business enterprise information into speech output provided to a user of the user device. Speech input from the user may be received and converted by processor . The processor may then interact with the remote enterprise server in accordance with the converted speech input and the business enterprise information.

The program may be stored in a compressed uncompiled and or encrypted format. The program may furthermore include other program elements such as an operating system a database management system and or device drivers used by the processor to interface with peripheral devices.

As used herein information may be received by or transmitted to for example i the apparatus from another device or ii a software application or module within the apparatus from another software application module or any other source.

In some embodiments such as shown in the storage device further stores a business enterprise information database e.g. including information about interactions between a user and an enterprise server . An example of a database that may be used in connection with the apparatus will now be described in detail with respect to . Note that the database described herein is only an example and additional and or different information may be stored therein. Moreover various databases might be split or combined in accordance with any of the embodiments described herein.

Referring to a table is shown that represents the business enterprise information database that may be stored at the apparatus according to some embodiments. The table may include for example entries identifying information about a building and locations within the building. The table may also define fields for each of the entries. The fields may according to some embodiments specify an enterprise information identifier enterprise information user voice input converted text and a result . The information in the map database may be created and updated for example based on interactions between a user and a remote business application.

The enterprise information identifier may be for example a unique alphanumeric code identifying an interaction between a mobile device remote business server and or user. The enterprise information might indicate for example a type of action or workflow step associated with the interaction. The user voice input might comprise for example an audio file and converted text may contain the contents of the user s spoken command. The result might indicate what was done in response to the spoken command found in the user voice input .

Devices through are examples of some devices that may be a part of or in communication with communication network . As such devices through may receive communication events either as intended recipients or as network nodes for passing messages. Devices through include satellite transmitter receiver landline telephone having a subscriber line interface circuit to receive a telephone line e.g. a cordless phone or a corded phone communication tower desktop computer or server satellite and portable computing device . Note the server might be associated with for example a remote database containing CRM information e.g. to be interacted with via spoken commends through the mobile communication device . Any other suitable devices may be used as a transmitting device or a receiving device in conjunction with some embodiments.

The elements of system may be connected differently than as shown. For example some or all of the elements may be connected directly to one another. Embodiments may include elements that are different from those shown. Moreover although the illustrated communication links between the elements of system appear dedicated each of the links may be shared by other elements. Elements shown and described as coupled or in communication with each other need not be constantly exchanging data. Rather communication may be established when necessary and severed at other times or always available but rarely used to transmit data. According to some embodiments voice interactions between a user and a business application executing at the server are facilitated via an interactive business voice dialog platform executing on demand in a computing cloud environment located with or accessed via the communication network .

The system may use one or more models to facilitate voice interactions associated with business information via handheld devices. Such models may be created for example by a model designer or architect via a platform that creates and extends applications for enterprise voice interaction scenarios. Designers may be able to define a model represented in a specified XML schema that represents the voice interaction between a set of enterprise services and end user voice commands. The platform may be pluggable and provide an ability to add new models which will describe new business interactions without any coding. For example is an example of a design tool Graphical User Interface GUI that might be used to create new models according to some embodiments. In particular the designer might add and or arrange elements to the model such as elements associated with interactive steps conditions voice messages output parameters business information interfaces etc. The design tool GUI might also let a designer graphically couple the elements as appropriate to define a new business interaction model.

Once a designer is finished modeling via the GUI an XML file may be generated which can be deployed to a voice interaction server. According to some embodiments this may automatically add the modeled business scenario to any device that communicates with the voice interaction server. Note that the information defined via the design tool GUI may be automatically converted into XML statements as appropriate. For example the following is an example of XML statements that might be associated with business information voice interactions in accordance with some embodiments 

According to some embodiments a backend business system may include various processes and workflows and may further serve as a compliance and policy adherence agent. For example by virtue of translating workflows into interactive voice instructions a backend system may promote an alignment of a user working within a set of business rules or goals. For example a CRM process might make sure that steps taken by a user are appropriate and navigate the user e.g. via a text to speech tool to the next step in the workflow process. Thus an interactive enterprise business voice platform may bring forward to a user the backend workflows and help navigate the user through various workflow step making sure he or she adheres to the enterprise rules and transaction policies. According to some embodiments the platform may further monitor a user s spoken words in connection with a speech adherence policy e.g. to ensure that a person is using proper terminology .

Thus some embodiments may establish methods and mechanisms to efficiently accurately and or automatically facilitate voice interactions between a user and a remote enterprise server. The following illustrates various additional embodiments and do not constitute a definition of all possible embodiments and those skilled in the art will understand that the present invention is applicable to many other embodiments. Further although the following embodiments are briefly described for clarity those skilled in the art will understand how to make any changes if necessary to the above described apparatus and methods to accommodate these and other embodiments and applications.

Although embodiments have been described with respect to business systems and databases note that embodiments may be associated with other types of enterprise data. For example voice interactions with financial governmental educational and or medical processes and systems may be facilitated in accordance with any of the embodiments described herein.

Moreover while embodiments have been illustrated using particular types of tables and databases embodiments may be implemented in any other of a number of different ways. For example some embodiments might be associated with third party and or publically available information such as flight or train schedules stock prices etc. available via web sites. Further while examples have been provided in a single language note that any embodiment may be associated with language translation tools e.g. to convert Spanish to English . Still further embodiments may support operation by users who are vision impaired and in some cases voice interactions might be facilitated from a user to a user or both from and to a user.

Embodiments have been described herein solely for the purpose of illustration. Persons skilled in the art will recognize from this description that embodiments are not limited to those described but may be practiced with modifications and alterations limited only by the spirit and scope of the appended claims.

