---

title: Data exchange between antenna and modem of mobile device
abstract: In one embodiment, a method includes accessing data encoding a response shift in a signal received through an antenna of a mobile device. The signal corresponds to wireless communication to the mobile device from another device. The response shift is detected and encoded by a modem of the mobile device coupled to the antenna. The method also includes determining an environmental or operational state of the mobile device based at least in part on the response shift encoded in the data.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09154608&OS=09154608&RS=09154608
owner: Facebook, Inc.
number: 09154608
owner_city: Menlo Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120509
---
A mobile electronic device such as a smartphone tablet device laptop computer etc. may be a hand held computing device with a display screen. The mobile device may provide touch input or a miniature keyboard. Mobile devices may have general computing capabilities for executing one or more applications such as for example short message service SMS multimedia messaging service MMS e mail Internet access short range wireless communications infrared Bluetooth business applications gaming or photography. A smartphone is a particular class of mobile device with general computing and telephony capabilities provided through a radio frequency RF communication link whilst moving within a geographic area. The smartphone connects to a cellular network for access to the public telephone network and mobile Internet access.

In particular embodiments mobile device includes a processor memory storage an input output I O interface a communication component and a bus . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular mobile device having a particular number of particular components in a particular arrangement this disclosure contemplates any suitable mobile device having any suitable number of any suitable components in any suitable arrangement. In particular embodiments processor includes hardware for executing instructions such as those making up a computer program or application. As an example and not by way of limitation to execute instructions processor may retrieve or fetch the instructions from an internal register an internal cache memory or storage decode and execute them and then write one or more results to an internal register an internal cache memory or storage .

In particular embodiments processor may include one or more internal caches for data instructions or addresses. This disclosure contemplates processor including any suitable number of any suitable internal caches where appropriate. As an example and not by way of limitation processor may include one or more instruction caches one or more data caches and one or more translation lookaside buffers TLBs . Instructions in the instruction caches may be copies of instructions in memory or storage and the instruction caches may speed up retrieval of those instructions by processor . Data in the data caches may be copies of data in memory or storage for instructions executing at processor to operate on the results of previous instructions executed at processor for access by subsequent instructions executing at processor or for writing to memory or storage or other suitable data. The data caches may speed up read or write operations by processor . The TLBs may speed up virtual address translation for processor . In particular embodiments processor may include one or more internal registers for data instructions or addresses. This disclosure contemplates a processor including any suitable number of any suitable internal registers where appropriate. Where appropriate processor may include one or more arithmetic logic units ALUs be a multi core processor or include one or more processors. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular processor this disclosure contemplates any suitable processor.

In particular embodiments software executed by processor may include an operating system OS . The OS may include a kernel or any number of device drivers corresponding to one or more hardware components of mobile device . As an example and not by limitation if mobile device is a smartphone then the OS may be a mobile operating system such as for example Windows Phone Android Symbian iOS or Bada. In particular embodiments one or more software applications may be executed on mobile device . In particular embodiments the applications may be native applications installed and residing on mobile device . As an example and not by way of limitation an application e.g. Google Maps may display a map on a touch screen search for addresses and businesses or provide directions to a geographic location a second application may provide remote access to email a third application i.e. a web browser may enable the device user to browse and search the Internet a fourth application may control a camera to take photos or record videos and a fifth application may allow the device user to receive and initiate voice over Internet Protocol VoIP or cellular network calls. The software applications may have a user interface UI and may implement one or more specific functionalities. The software applications may include one or more software modules implementing the specific functionalities. The executable code of the software applications may be stored in memory or storage of mobile device .

In particular embodiments memory includes main memory for storing instructions for processor to execute or data for processor to operate on. As an example and not by way of limitation mobile device may load instructions from storage or another source such as for example another mobile device to memory . Processor may then load the instructions from memory to an internal register or internal cache. To execute the instructions processor may retrieve the instructions from the internal register or internal cache and decode them. During or after execution of the instructions processor may write one or more results which may be intermediate or final results to the internal register or internal cache. Processor may then write one or more of those results to memory . In particular embodiments processor executes only instructions in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory as opposed to storage or elsewhere and operates only on data in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory as opposed to storage or elsewhere .

One or more memory buses which may each include an address bus and a data bus may couple processor to memory . Bus may include one or more memory buses as described below. In particular embodiments one or more memory management units MMUs reside between processor and memory and facilitate accesses to memory requested by processor . In particular embodiments memory includes random access memory RAM . This RAM may be volatile memory where appropriate Where appropriate this RAM may be dynamic RAM DRAM or static RAM SRAM . Moreover where appropriate this RAM may be single ported or multi ported RAM. This disclosure contemplates any suitable RAM. Memory may include one or more memories where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular memory this disclosure contemplates any suitable memory.

In particular embodiments storage includes mass storage for data or instructions. As an example and not by way of limitation storage may include a hard disk drive HDD a floppy disk drive flash memory or a combination of two or more of these. Storage may include removable or non removable or fixed media where appropriate. Storage may be internal or external to mobile device where appropriate. In particular embodiments storage is non volatile solid state memory. In particular embodiments storage includes read only memory ROM . Where appropriate this ROM may be mask programmed ROM programmable ROM PROM erasable PROM EPROM electrically erasable PROM EEPROM electrically alterable ROM EAROM or flash memory or a combination of two or more of these. This disclosure contemplates mass storage taking any suitable physical form. Storage may include one or more storage control units facilitating communication between processor and storage where appropriate. Where appropriate storage may include one or more storages . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular storage this disclosure contemplates any suitable storage.

In particular embodiments I O interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication between mobile device and one or more I O devices. Mobile device may include one or more of these I O devices where appropriate. One or more of these I O devices may enable communication between a user and mobile device . As an example and not by way of limitation an I O device may include a keyboard keypad one or more sensors touch screen microphone monitor mouse printer scanner speaker digital still camera stylus trackball video camera another suitable I O device or a combination of two or more of these. This disclosure contemplates any suitable I O devices and any suitable I O interfaces for them. Where appropriate I O interface may include one or more device or software drivers enabling processor to drive one or more of these I O devices. I O interface may include one or more I O interfaces where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular I O interface this disclosure contemplates any suitable I O interface.

In particular embodiments communication component includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication such as for example packet based communication between mobile device and one or more other mobile devices or one or more networks. As an example and not by way of limitation communication component may include a network interface controller NIC or network adapter for communicating with an Ethernet or other wire based network or a wireless NIC WNIC wireless adapter for communicating with a wireless network such as for example a WI FI network or modem for communicating with a cellular network such third generation mobile telecommunications 3G or Long Term Evolution LTE network. This disclosure contemplates any suitable network and any suitable communication component for it. As an example and not by way of limitation mobile device may communicate with an ad hoc network a personal area network PAN a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a metropolitan area network MAN or one or more portions of the Internet or a combination of two or more of these. One or more portions of one or more of these networks may be wired or wireless. As another example mobile device may communicate with a wireless PAN WPAN such as for example a BLUETOOTH WPAN a WI FI network a WI MAX network a cellular telephone network such as for example a Global System for Mobile Communications GSM 3G or LTE network or other suitable wireless network or a combination of two or more of these. Mobile device may include any suitable communication component for any of these networks where appropriate. Communication component may include one or more communication components where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular communication component this disclosure contemplates any suitable communication component.

In particular embodiments bus includes hardware software or both coupling components of mobile device to each other. As an example and not by way of limitation bus may include a graphics bus an Enhanced Industry Standard Architecture EISA bus a front side bus FSB a HYPERTRANSPORT HT interconnect an Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus an INFINIBAND interconnect a low pin count LPC bus a memory bus a Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus a serial advanced technology attachment SATA bus a Video Electronics Standards Association local VLB bus or another suitable bus or a combination of two or more of these. Bus may include one or more buses where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular bus this disclosure contemplates any suitable bus or interconnect.

As described above antennae A E are configured to convert a received EM signal into an electrical signal at the terminals of antennae A E. The electrical signal at the terminals of antennae A E is transmitted to modem . In particular embodiments when the mobile device accesses the Internet through a 3G or LTE data network a primary antenna A and a secondary antenna B is used. Modem configures antennae A B for use with one or more wireless protocols. Modem is configured to optimize the efficiency of the power transfer between the antennae and the modem within the frequency range associated with the wireless protocol used by the mobile device as described below. In particular embodiments modem transmits data encoding a response shift in the signals received by the mobile device to logic . Logic may be configured to process the encoded response shift data received from modem and initiate changes to the configuration of the mobile device based on the received response shift data. In particular embodiments logic may receive the encoded shift data from modem through an application programming interface API . In other particular embodiments logic may receive an interrupt in response to a change in the response shift data received by modem . Although this disclosure describes particular methods of communicating information between the logic and modem this disclosure contemplates communicating information between the logic and modem through any suitable methods such as for example using an API using an interrupt or a combination of API and interrupt.

In the example of spectrum illustrates an example spectrum of the wireless communication signal received by the antennae without interference. Spectrum illustrates an example frequency shift of the wireless communication signal with the presence of hand near one or more of the antennae. The modem of mobile device modifies the configuration of the antennae to increase the efficiency of the power transfer between the antennae and the modem. In particular embodiments the impedance of the antennae is adjusted such that the difference between resonant frequency of the antennae and the frequency of the peak amplitude of the wireless communication signals is minimized. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular sources and characteristics of signal interference this disclosure contemplates interference resulting from any suitable source of or measuring any suitable characteristic associated with signal interference such as for example a frequency phase or amplitude response shift.

In particular embodiments the modem of mobile device transmits information corresponding to the shift of the resonant frequency of the antennae to the logic of the communication component through an API as described above. As an example and not by way of limitation the frequency shift of the wireless communication signal may be due at least in part to interference with hand . As another example the frequency shift may be due at least in part to interference from inanimate objects such as for example fabric of a pocket. In particular embodiments the logic of mobile device is able to differentiate between interference resulting from different sources through analysis of the shift of the resonant frequency of the antennae which in turn is indicative of the frequency shift of the received wireless communication signals. The logic of mobile device is able to differentiate between interference resulting from hand and interference resulting from the mobile device being placed in a pocket based on the amount or pattern of frequency shift resulting from different sources of interference.

As an example and not by way of limitation the logic of mobile device may receive an interrupt in response to the modem detecting a change in the signal from one source of interference to another source of interference. As another example the response shift information received from the modem may be compared with response shift information associated with hand or inanimate objects. Based on this comparison the logic may transmit data to the modem to reconfigure one or more antennae of mobile device . As an example and not by way of limitation based on the response shift information the logic may determine mobile device is being held in hand of a user. Based on the determination the logic may transmit a configuration signal to the modem to swap the functions of a primary antenna with a secondary antenna to increase the efficiency of the power transfer between the antennae and the modem. Or the modem may configure mobile device to use one or more antennae configured for a different wireless communication protocol e.g. from 3G to GPS to increase the efficiency of the power transfer between the antennae and the modem.

In particular embodiments an user profile may be created that compiles characteristic information associated with the user of the mobile device. The characteristic information may be inferred from data collected by one or more sources such as for example GPS information and response shift information from the antennae. As an example and not by way of limitation the characteristic information of the user profile may indicate the user holds mobile device in hand while at a work location places mobile device in a pocket while at a public place e.g. restaurant or places mobile device on top of a table while at a place of residence. In particular embodiments the communication and sensor components of mobile device may configured based on the user profile. As an example and not by way of limitation the configuration signal may re route signals away the primary antenna to a secondary antenna based on the user profile determining the user is at a work location and holding mobile device in hand . As another example the volume of the speakers may be increased based on the user profile and the user having mobile device in a pocket while at a public location. In addition touch sensing of the touch screen of mobile device may be suppressed if the environmental state indicates mobile device is inside the pocket of the user. As another example the display of mobile device may be darkened and the touch screen of the mobile device may be disabled to minimize power consumption of mobile device when mobile device is placed on a table at a place of residence. Operation of the touch screen and the display may be resumed in response to the environmental state indicating physical contact with mobile device by the user.

Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium or media may include one or more semiconductor based or other integrated circuits ICs such as for example a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific IC ASIC hard disk drives HDDs hybrid hard drives HHDs optical discs optical disc drives ODDs magneto optical discs magneto optical drives floppy diskettes floppy disk drives FDDs magnetic tapes solid state drives SSDs RAM drives SECURE DIGITAL cards SECURE DIGITAL drives or any other suitable computer readable storage medium or media or any suitable combination of two or more of these where appropriate. A computer readable non transitory storage medium or media may be volatile non volatile or a combination of volatile and non volatile where appropriate.

Herein or is inclusive and not exclusive unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Therefore herein A or B means A B or both unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Moreover and is both joint and several unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Therefore herein A and B means A and B jointly or severally unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context.

This disclosure encompasses all changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications to the example embodiments herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. Moreover although this disclosure describes and illustrates respective embodiments herein as including particular components elements functions operations or steps any of these embodiments may include any combination or permutation of any of the components elements functions operations or steps described or illustrated anywhere herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. Furthermore reference in the appended claims to an apparatus or system or a component of an apparatus or system being adapted to arranged to capable of configured to enabled to operable to or operative to perform a particular function encompasses that apparatus system component whether or not it or that particular function is activated turned on or unlocked as long as that apparatus system or component is so adapted arranged capable configured enabled operable or operative.

