---

title: Enforcement of regulatory guidelines associated with a drive mode of a vehicle
abstract: In an example, a method of enforcing regulatory guidelines related to functionality of an electronic device associated with a vehicle when the vehicle is in a drive mode includes interfacing an application of an electronic device associated with a vehicle with an Application Programming Interface (API). The method additionally includes determining that the vehicle is in the drive mode. In the method, the API may modify a functionality of the application of the electronic device in accordance with regulatory guidelines associated with operation of the electronic device when the vehicle is in the drive mode. The modification may be based on the determination that the vehicle is in the drive mode.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09137622&OS=09137622&RS=09137622
owner: CLOUDCAR, INC.
number: 09137622
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121030
---
Embodiments of the current disclosure relate to enforcement of regulatory guidelines associated with a drive mode of a vehicle.

Many consumers own mobile electronic devices referred to as mobile devices with functionality that may allow the consumers to perform countless tasks and may provide the consumers with boundless information or media wherever the consumer may be. For example mobile phones smartphones laptop computers tablet computers portable navigation systems and personal data assistants PDAs are all mobile devices that are increasingly versatile and mobile.

Additionally modern vehicles have built in electronic devices referred to as vehicular devices that provide information to the occupants of the vehicles. For example many vehicles include navigation systems stereo systems video systems mobile device interfaces etc. that may allow occupants of the vehicles to access information and media. The vehicular devices may be original devices that come with the vehicle or may be after market devices. However the use of mobile devices and or vehicular devices while operating a vehicle can lead to operator distractions and potentially dangerous operating conditions.

In addition to providing the driver with information the vehicular and or mobile electronic devices may require input from the driver to perform some actions. For example a stereo system may require the driver to interact with an interface to change the volume change the radio station or switch between CDs. Similarly a mobile phone may require the driver to interact with a touchscreen or keypad to view or respond to a text message receive a phone call and or access an application.

These applications and services require the driver s attention some more than others. For example changing the volume on a radio can be done without taking one s eyes off the road but selecting a contact to call from a mobile phone address book often involves looking at the phone not the road. This sort of distracted driving has caused accidents and many states now have laws forbidding interacting with mobile phones while driving. Additionally the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration NHSTA has provided regulatory guidelines to automakers to make sure that new cars discourage distracted driving. The focus of the NHSTA regulatory guidelines is to encourage drivers to keep their eyes on the road rather than being distracted with the interface of a mobile device or vehicular device. The NHSTA regulatory guidelines are often in direct conflict with drivers desired behavior and are often difficult to implement.

The subject matter claimed herein is not limited to embodiments that solve any disadvantages or that operate only in environments such as those described above. Rather this background is only provided to illustrate one exemplary technology area where some embodiments described herein may be practiced.

Some embodiments described herein generally relate to enforcing regulatory guidelines related to functionality of electronic devices associated with a vehicle when the vehicle is in a drive mode. In an example embodiment an Application Programming Interface API may be configured to modify the functionality of one or more applications running on the electronic devices when the vehicle is in the drive mode. The API may modify the functionality of the applications based on the regulatory guidelines such that the applications may comply with the regulatory guidelines. In some embodiments the API may modify the functionality based on a list of approved functionality and a list of unapproved functionality. Accordingly the APIs may provide a framework for enabling compliance with regulatory guidelines associated with the vehicle being operated in the drive mode without having to assess whether each application complies with the regulatory guidelines or program each application to individually comply with the regulatory guidelines.

Additional features and advantages of the invention will be set forth in the description which follows and in part will be obvious from the description or may be learned by the practice of the invention. The features and advantages of the invention may be realized and obtained by means of the instruments and combinations particularly pointed out in the appended claims. These and other features of the present invention will become more fully apparent from the following description and appended claims or may be learned by the practice of the invention as set forth hereinafter.

Embodiments of the present disclosure relate to the enforcement of regulatory guidelines such as regulatory guidelines provided by the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration NHSTA associated with the use of electronic devices by an operator of a vehicle when the vehicle is in a drive mode. The drive mode may be any number of modes of the vehicle that allow the vehicle to propel itself and or in which the vehicle is moving. For example the drive mode associated with a vehicle having an automatic transmission may be any mode of the automatic transmission other than Park or Neutral when the engine of the vehicle is running or any mode of the automatic transmission other than Park when the vehicle is in motion. Additionally the drive mode associated with a vehicle having a manual transmission or sequential gear box may be when a gear of the manual transmission or sequential gear box is engaged i.e. not in Neutral when the engine of the vehicle is running. Further the drive mode may be when the vehicle is in motion regardless of which gear of the transmission is engaged.

Different regulatory guidelines may exist relating to the functionality of the electronic devices associated with the vehicle when the vehicle is in the drive mode. Therefore as disclosed in further detail below in some embodiments of the present disclosure one or more Application Programming Interfaces APIs may be integrated with the vehicle and or electronic devices associated with the vehicle. The APIs may be configured to interface with one or more applications of the electronic devices to modify the functionality of the applications when the vehicle is in the drive mode to enable compliance with the regulatory guidelines. The applications may be any program of the electronic devices that may be configured to perform a functionality of the electronic devices.

In some embodiments the APIs may utilize a list of approved and or unapproved functionality associated with the applications of the electronic devices to enable compliance with the regulatory guidelines. The list may indicate which functions the electronic devices may perform while the vehicle is in the drive mode referred to hereinafter as approved functions and or which functions the electronic devices may not perform while the vehicle is in the drive mode referred to hereinafter as unapproved functions . By modifying the functionality of the applications of the electronic devices the APIs may provide a framework for enabling compliance with regulatory guidelines associated with the vehicle being operated in the drive mode without having to assess whether each application complies with the regulatory guidelines or program each application to individually comply with the regulatory guidelines. Alternately or additionally the APIs may utilize a list of approved and or unapproved applications.

The mobile device may be virtually any mobile device including but not limited to a portable media device a personal digital assistant PDA a smartphone a tablet computer a laptop computer a navigation system an MP3 player or any other electronic device. According to some embodiments the mobile device may include a communication interface such as but not limited to an IEEE 802.11 interface a Bluetooth interface a Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS interface or other mobile communication interface.

The mobile device may include a UI that may include any input device configured to receive user input effective to operate the mobile device . For example the UI of the mobile device may include one or more buttons and or a display of the mobile device that may be implemented as a touchscreen display.

The head unit may include a display A configured to display content such as one or more of maps navigation instructions video content from an integrated media player e.g. a Digital Versatile Disk and or BluRay player radio or other music information weather or traffic information etc. The head unit may additionally include a UI that may include any input device configured to receive user input effective to operate the head unit and potentially other aspects of the vehicle in which the head unit is installed. For example the UI of the head unit may include one or more buttons B C and or the display A itself when implemented as a touchscreen display.

The instrument panel includes at least one display area A in which content may be displayed. The instrument panel may include one or more fixed instruments B C. For example the fixed instruments B C may include a speedometer a fuel gauge a temperature gauge an RPM gauge or the like or any combination thereof. Additionally in some embodiments the instrument panel may include a UI such as has been described with respect to the head unit that may allow the user to change the content projected on the instrument panel .

The UIs of the mobile device the head unit and or the instrument panel may additionally be configured to output information alerts media or the like. Accordingly the UIs of the mobile device the head unit and or the instrument panel may include but are not limited to displays speakers vibrators or other suitable output devices. Accordingly and as described herein restricting functionality of the electronic devices may include restricting input and or output functionality of the electronic devices terminating execution of an application or the like.

The environment may further include a steering wheel of the vehicle. In some embodiments the steering wheel may include a UI such as has been described above with respect to the head unit that may be used to control one or more electronic devices of the vehicle. For example the steering wheel may include one or more buttons A B. In some embodiments the buttons A B may be used for one or more of speaker volume control channel selection track selection or for other functionality.

In some embodiments the environment may further include an intra vehicle bus to which the head unit the instrument panel and or the steering wheel may be communicatively coupled. The intra vehicle bus may be configured to allow processing units that may be implemented in each of a vehicular control system of the vehicle not expressly illustrated in the head unit the instrument panel and the steering wheel among potentially others to communicate with each other. The intra vehicle bus may include but is not limited to a controller area network CAN bus.

An access node may be provided to allow access to the intra vehicle bus . For example an intra vehicle bus interface IVBI device may be communicatively coupled to the access node to read data from and or write data to the intra vehicle bus . In an example embodiment the access node may include an on board diagnostics OBD connector compliant with a particular OBD interface such as the OBD I OBD 1.5 or OBD II interfaces. Additionally the mobile device may be communicatively coupled to the IVBI device via a wired or wireless connection.

In some embodiments one or more APIs not expressly illustrated in may be configured to interface with and modify the functionality of applications associated with the head unit the instrument panel and or the mobile device based on whether or not the vehicle is in the drive mode and based on regulatory guidelines associated therewith. For example the regulatory guidelines may restrict displaying images or video not related to driving displaying automatically scrolling text requiring manual text entry of more than a certain number of button or key presses during a single task and or requiring reading more than a certain number of characters of text. Examples of some tasks that may be performed by an operator and may be associated with these functions may be texting watching a video entering navigation information manually looking up someone s contact information checking social media updating social media etc. Accordingly the APIs may be configured to modify the functionality of the applications such that the applications may not perform these functions which may include entirely terminating the execution of applications in some cases.

In some embodiments the APIs may modify the functionality of the applications based on a list of approved functions and a list of unapproved functions of the electronic devices when the vehicle is in the drive mode. For example the unapproved functions may include the previously mentioned functions of displaying images or video not related to driving displaying automatically scrolling text requiring manual text entry of more than a certain number of button or key presses during a single task and or requiring reading more than a certain number of characters of text.

The approved functions may include functions that the regulatory guidelines indicate may be allowed and may include functions that may relate to displaying images or video related to driving requiring limited manual text entry or button or key presses that do not exceed the proscribed threshold etc. Examples of some tasks associated with approved functions may be adjustment of radio dials adjustment of air conditioning or heating knobs etc. Therefore in some embodiments the list of unapproved functions and list of approved functions may be based on functions that the regulatory guidelines may deem unacceptably unsafe versus those that are deemed acceptably safe.

In some embodiments the APIs may be included in the vehicular control system and may communicate instructions to modify the functionality of applications of the mobile device head unit instrument panel and or the steering wheel via the intra vehicle bus and or the IVBI device . Alternately or additionally some or all of the APIs may be included in the mobile device head unit instrument panel and or the steering wheel . In such embodiments the vehicular control system may be configured to communicate to the mobile device head unit instrument panel and or the steering wheel that the vehicle is in the drive mode via the intra vehicle bus and or the IVBI device . The APIs associated with the mobile device head unit instrument panel and or the steering wheel may accordingly modify the functionality of the applications of the mobile device head unit instrument panel and or the steering wheel based on the communication that the vehicle is in the drive mode and the regulatory guidelines associated therewith.

Additionally in some embodiments the mobile device head unit instrument panel and or the steering wheel may be configured to receive a command from a user e.g. the operator or other occupant of the vehicle to put the mobile device head unit instrument panel and or the steering wheel into a driving mode. Accordingly APIs associated with these electronic devices may adjust the functionality of the applications of the mobile device head unit instrument panel and or the steering wheel based on the electronic devices being placed in driving mode.

Therefore the APIs may be configured to modify the functionality of applications of one or more electronic devices of the environment such that the electronic devices may comply with regulatory guidelines associated with a vehicle in the drive mode. As such the API s may provide a framework for compliance with the regulatory guidelines without having to individually program each application of the electronic devices to comply with the regulatory guidelines or verify that each application complies with the regulatory guidelines.

Modifications additions or omissions may be made to the environment of without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. For example the number of electronic devices included in the environment may vary. Additionally the environment may vary depending on the type of vehicle in which the environment is included.

The vehicular control system may include a processing device and a computer readable storage medium hereinafter storage medium . The processing device may be configured to execute instructions stored on the storage medium to perform one or more of the operations described herein. For example the storage medium may include instructions associated with receiving input from one or more sensors of the vehicle and determining one or more safety parameters associated with operating the vehicle based on the received sensor input. The storage medium may also include other information that may be used to determine the safety parameters for example map information school zone information laws and ordinances information or any other information that may be used to determine the safety parameters. Alternately such other information may be accessed by the vehicular control system remotely from the mobile device the vehicular device or other remote device via a suitable communication interface that may be included in the vehicular control system .

The storage medium may include but is not limited to a magnetic disk a flexible disk a hard disk an optical disk such as a compact disk CD or DVD and a solid state drive SSD to name a few. Another example of a computer readable storage medium that may be included in vehicular control system may include a system memory not shown . Various non limiting examples of system memory include volatile memory such as random access memory RAM or non volatile memory such as read only memory ROM flash memory or the like or any combination thereof.

The vehicular control system may be configured to determine whether the vehicle is in the drive mode and may communicate instructions to the mobile device and or the vehicular device based on the determination of whether the vehicle is in the drive mode. In some embodiments the vehicular control system may communicate the instructions via an intra vehicle bus and or IVBI device such as the intra vehicle bus and IVBI device of FIG. that may be communicatively coupled to the vehicular control system mobile device and vehicular device .

In some embodiments the vehicular control system may include an API configured to interface with the applications of the mobile device and or the vehicular device . The API may be configured to communicate control signals that may modify the functionality of one or more applications of the mobile device and or the vehicular device based on the vehicle being in the drive mode and the regulatory guidelines associated therewith. As described above in some embodiments the API may be configured to modify the functionality of the applications based on a list of approved functionality and a list of unapproved functionality and or based on a list of approved and or unapproved applications. In some embodiments the lists of approved and unapproved functionality or applications used by the API may be stored in the storage medium and accessed by the API .

The mobile device may include a processing device and a computer readable storage medium hereinafter storage medium . The processing device is configured to execute computer instructions stored on the storage medium to perform one or more of the operations described herein such as operations associated with modifying the functionality of the mobile device .

The storage medium may be similar to the storage medium and may include but is not limited to a magnetic disk a flexible disk a hard disk an optical disk such as a compact disk CD or DVD and a solid state drive SSD to name a few. Another example of a computer readable storage medium that may be included in the mobile device may include a system memory not shown .

One or more applications may be stored in the storage medium and executed by the processing device to become corresponding instantiated applications M that generate or render information or content locally or receive information or content from an external information or content source. The instantiated applications M may be instantiated and or controlled via a UI of the mobile device . Additionally the instantiated applications M may be configured to output content to a built in display of the mobile device .

The mobile device may also include a wireless interface that may be configured to facilitate wireless communication of data to and from the mobile device . Alternately or additionally other data including data representing user input commands and or other data may be received from and or transmitted to corresponding external display devices by the wireless interface . The wireless interface may include a Bluetooth wireless interface a WiFi or more generally an IEEE 802.11 wireless interface or other suitable wireless interface.

In some embodiments the mobile device may include a content arbiter that may include any suitable combination of software hardware and or firmware. The content arbiter may communicate with the vehicular control system via one or more of the wireless interface a wired interface an intra vehicle bus an IVBI device or any combination thereof. In some embodiments the content arbiter may receive from the vehicular control system via the IVBI device one or more instructions associated with whether or not the vehicle is in the drive mode. In some embodiments the content arbiter may include an API that may interface with the applications and or instantiated applications M of the mobile device . The API may modify the functionality of the applications and or instantiated applications M of the mobile device according to whether or not the vehicle is in the drive mode and based on the regulatory guidelines associated therewith. Similarly to the API in some embodiments the API may be configured to modify the functionality of the applications and or instantiated applications M based on the list of approved functionality and the list of unapproved functionality. In some embodiments the lists of approved and unapproved functionality used by the API may be stored in the storage medium and accessed by the API .

For example one of the applications and or instantiated applications M may be a video application associated with displaying a video. Therefore the API may modify the video application such that the video application may not display a video on the display of the mobile device based on the list of approved functionality and the list of unapproved functionality. Alternately or additionally the API may selectively suppress or disable certain input output functionality of one of the applications and or instantiated applications M of the mobile device depending on whether or not the vehicle is in the drive mode and or may completely terminate any of the instantiated applications M. Examples of the functionality of the applications and or instantiated applications M of the mobile device that may be selectively suppressed may include suppressing the functionality of a texting application to prevent an operator of the vehicle from sending or receiving texts while operating the vehicle.

The vehicular device may generally include a processing device a computer readable storage medium hereinafter storage medium a display and a content arbiter . The processing device may be configured to execute computer instructions stored on the storage medium to perform one or more of the operations described herein such as operations associated with modifying the functionality of the vehicular device . The storage medium may be implemented as any of the types of storage media described above with respect to the storage mediums and .

The content arbiter of the vehicular device may be substantially similar to the content arbiter of the mobile device . Accordingly the content arbiter may communicate with the vehicular control system via one or more of an intra vehicle bus an IVBI device a wired or wireless interface or the like or any combination thereof. In some embodiments similar to the content arbiter of the mobile device the content arbiter may receive from the vehicular control system one or more instructions associated with the vehicle being in the drive mode. An API of the content arbiter may be configured to modify the functionality of one or more applications of the vehicular device based on the vehicle being in the drive mode and the regulatory guidelines associated therewith.

For example the API may modify an application of the vehicular device to selectively suppress the content that is displayed on the display of the vehicular device based on the regulatory guidelines. As an example the API may not allow an application to display scrolling text based on the regulatory guidelines associated with restricting scrolling text. In alternative or the same embodiments the API may modify an application of the vehicular device to selectively suppress or disable functionality of a UI of the vehicular device based on the regulatory guidelines or to completely terminate execution of an instantiated application.

Accordingly one or more APIs may be configured to modify the functionality of the mobile device and vehicular device based on the regulatory guidelines associated with the vehicle being in the drive mode. Therefore the applications of the mobile device and the vehicular device may comply with the regulatory guidelines through the modifications to their functionality by the APIs.

Modifications additions or omissions may be made to one or more elements of without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. For example the vehicular control system the mobile device and or the vehicular device may include more or fewer components configured to perform various operations. Additionally in some embodiments the mobile device may be configured to project content to the vehicular device such that the display of the vehicular device may display content from the mobile device or vice versa. Additionally in the same or alternative embodiments the vehicular device and mobile device may be configured such that the mobile device may be controlled via the UI of the vehicular device or vice versa. Such functionality may also be modified depending on the regulatory guidelines associated with the vehicle operating in the drive mode.

The method may begin at block in which an application of an electronic device associated with a vehicle may be interfaced by an API. At block a determination may be made that the vehicle is in a drive mode. In some embodiments the determination may be made by a vehicular control system of the vehicle. In the same or alternative embodiments the determination may be made by the electronic device based on a signal communicated from the vehicular control system or an input by a user of the electronic device.

At block the API may modify a functionality of the application of the electronic device in accordance with regulatory guidelines associated with operation of the electronic device when the vehicle is in the drive mode. The modification may be based on the determination that the vehicle is in the drive mode.

One skilled in the art will appreciate that for this and other processes and methods disclosed herein the functions performed in the processes and methods may be implemented in differing order. Furthermore the outlined steps and operations are only provided as examples and some of the steps and operations may be optional combined into fewer steps and operations or expanded into additional steps and operations without detracting from the essence of the disclosed embodiments. For example the method may additionally include blocks associated with generating a list of one or more approved functions of the electronic device and generating a list of one or more unapproved functions. In the same or other embodiments the API may modify the functionality of the application based on the lists of approved and unapproved functions and or based on a list of approved and or unapproved applications.

The embodiments described herein may include the use of a special purpose or general purpose computer including various computer hardware or software modules as discussed in greater detail below.

Embodiments within the scope of the present disclosure also include computer readable media for carrying or having computer executable instructions or data structures stored thereon. Such computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by a general purpose or special purpose computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to carry or store desired program code means in the form of computer executable instructions or data structures and which can be accessed by a general purpose or special purpose computer. When information is transferred or provided over a network or another communications connection either hardwired wireless or a combination of hardwired or wireless to a computer the computer properly views the connection as a computer readable medium. Thus any such connection is properly termed a computer readable medium. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

Computer executable instructions comprise for example instructions and data which cause a general purpose computer special purpose computer or special purpose processing device to perform a certain function or group of functions. Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

As used herein the term module or component can refer to software objects or routines that execute on the computing system. The different components modules engines and services described herein may be implemented as objects or processes that execute on the computing system e.g. as separate threads . While the system and methods described herein are preferably implemented in software implementations in hardware or a combination of software and hardware are also possible and contemplated. In this description a computing entity may be any computing system as previously defined herein or any module or combination of modulates running on a computing system.

The present disclosure may be embodied in other specific forms without departing from its spirit or essential characteristics. The described embodiments are to be considered in all respects only as illustrative and not restrictive. The scope of the disclosure is therefore indicated by the appended claims rather than by the foregoing description. All changes which come within the meaning and range of equivalency of the claims are to be embraced within their scope.

