---

title: Method and system for providing gambling games
abstract: Methods and systems for providing gambling games to users wherein the games are not tied to a particular gaming operator. Specifically, a third party gaming system provides central access to a library of gambling games offered by multiple gaming operators. Players connect to the third party gaming system and select a game from the library of gambling games. Once a player has selected a game, the third party gaming system provides the player with a game client for the selected game and operator configuration parameters for a suitable gaming operator system. The game client then dynamically reconfigures itself using the configuration parameters to connect to the gaming operator system to play the game. In some cases after the user has selected a game they are provided with a list of gaming operators that offer the selected game and the player can select which operator that they wish to play with.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09028322&OS=09028322&RS=09028322
owner: 
number: 09028322
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20120814
---
Traditionally if a user wanted to play an online gambling game the user had to first connect to a licensed online gaming company s website and then select one of the games offered by that company. This restricts the number of games that are available to a user and makes it difficult for developers to market their games directly to suitable players e.g. players based in a certain jurisdiction .

The embodiments described below are not limited to implementations which solve any or all of the disadvantages of known gambling systems.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Described herein are methods and systems for providing gambling games to users wherein the games are not tied to a particular gaming operator. Specifically in the methods and systems described herein a third party gaming system provides central access to a library of gambling games offered by a plurality of gaming operators. Players connect to the third party gaming system and select a game from the library of gambling games. Once a player has selected a game the third party gaming system provides the player with a game client for the selected game and operator configuration parameters for a suitable gaming operator system. The game client then dynamically reconfigures itself using the configuration parameters to connect to the gaming operator system to play the game. In some cases after the user has selected a game they are provided with a list of gaming operators that offer the selected game and the player can select which operator that they wish to play with.

In a first aspect there is provided a system to provide a plurality of gambling games to a player the system comprising a plurality of operator systems each operator system configured to facilitate play of at least one of the gambling games and a third party gaming system remotely located from the plurality of operator systems the third party gaming system configured to receive a request from an end user device associated with the player to play a selected gambling game of the plurality of gambling games obtain a game client for the selected gambling game the game client enabling the player to play the selected game provide the game client to the end user device generate operator configuration parameters for the game client the operator configuration parameters comprising connection information for a selected operator system of the plurality of operator systems and provide the operator configuration parameters to the end user device to enable the game client to be dynamically configured to communicate with the selected operator system.

In a second aspect there is a provided a computer implemented method to provide a plurality of gambling games to a player the method comprising receiving at a third party gaming system a request from an end user device associated with the player to play a selected game of the plurality of games obtaining at the third party gaming system a game client for the selected game the game client enabling the player to play the selected game providing the game client to the end user device generating at the third party gaming system operator configuration parameters the operator configuration parameters comprising connection information for a selected gaming operator of the plurality of gaming operators and providing the operator configuration parameters to the end user device so that the game client can be dynamically configured to communicate with the selected gaming operator.

The methods described herein may be performed by software in machine readable form on a tangible storage medium e.g. in the form of a computer program comprising computer program code means adapted to perform all the steps of any of the methods described herein when the program is run on a computer and where the computer program may be embodied on a computer readable medium. Examples of tangible or non transitory storage media include disks thumb drives memory cards etc. and do not include propagated signals. The software can be suitable for execution on a parallel processor or a serial processor such that the method steps may be carried out in any suitable order or simultaneously.

This acknowledges that firmware and software can be valuable separately tradable commodities. It is intended to encompass software which runs on or controls dumb or standard hardware to carry out the desired functions. It is also intended to encompass software which describes or defines the configuration of hardware such as HDL hardware description language software as is used for designing silicon chips or for configuring universal programmable chips to carry out desired functions.

The preferred features may be combined as appropriate as would be apparent to a skilled person and may be combined with any of the aspects of the invention.

Embodiments of the present invention are described below by way of example only. These examples represent the best ways of putting the invention into practice that are currently known to the Applicant although they are not the only ways in which this could be achieved. The description sets forth the functions of the example and the sequence of steps for constructing and operating the example. However the same or equivalent functions and sequences may be accomplished by different examples.

Described herein are methods and systems for providing gambling games to users wherein the games are not tied to a particular gaming operator. Specifically in the methods and systems described herein a third party gaming system provides central access to a library of gambling games offered by a plurality of gaming operators. Players connect to the third party gaming system and select a game from the library of gambling games. Once a player has selected a game the third party gaming system provides the player with a game client for the selected game and operator configuration parameters for a suitable gaming operator system. The game client then dynamically reconfigures itself using the operator configuration parameters to connect to the gaming operator system to play the game. In some cases after the user has selected a game they are provided with a list of gaming operators that offer the selected game and the player can select which operator that they wish to play with.

The methods and systems described herein may also allow the game client to be dynamically configured based on player attributes. Player attributes may include but are not limited to one or more of the players jurisdiction currency language and or mode of play. The player attribute data may be obtained via any suitable means. For example the player attribute data may be manually provided by the user automatically determined obtained from another source e.g. a player gambling account or a social media account e.g. Facebook or obtained using a combination of any of these methods.

Traditional game clients are configured pre run time for a specific mode of play and or a specific operator. Furthermore most game clients are packaged with localized string sets for all the languages jurisdictions and currencies supported.

By allowing game clients to be dynamically configured based on the operator and or player attributes only a single game client needs to be stored for each game thus reducing the storage requirements. Furthermore by only sending the string set matching the players attributes to the player instead of the string sets for all of the languages jurisdictions and currencies supported the amount of data sent to the player may be reduced. Finally since the game client is dynamically reconfigured on the fly operators and system administrators can easily implement changes to games transparently. Specifically changes can be implemented without having to regenerate new game clients.

The term gaming operator is used herein to mean an online or offline gaming company or entity that acts as a host of the wagering activity of a supported gambling game.

The term gambling game is used herein to mean any game that allows a player to wager on one or more aspects of the game. The wager may be made using real money virtual currency tokens or any other suitable medium of exchange or reward. Gambling games include but are not limited to traditional gambling games e.g. Blackjack Roulette Poker and Bingo lottery games and any other house game or peer to peer game or variants thereof. Gambling games also include games that in addition to offering wagering also offer non wager related purchases. For example some gambling games may allow players to purchase advancements in the game and or items that simply alter the display of one or more aspects of the game. For example some gambling games may allow the player to purchase skins or other items that alter the presentation of the game whereas other gambling games may allow the player to purchase level advancements or items e.g. a shield or a wall to increase the player s chances of winning.

Each gambling game is associated with a particular game archetype and one or more sub archetypes. A game archetype defines the high level rules and available features for the game. Examples of game archetypes include but are not limited to 3 hand Blackjack 1 hand Blackjack and Roulette. A sub archetype represents a specific certified configuration of a particular game archetype. For example the 3 hand Blackjack archetype may have a plurality of sub archetypes each with a different return to player RTP . For example one sub archetype may offer 90 RTP one sub archetype may offer 92 RTP and another sub archetype may offer 95 RTP. Similarly a 1 hand Blackjack archetype may have a plurality of its own sub archetypes each with a different RTP.

The term jurisdiction is used herein to mean a specific geographic area and may include but is not limited to a continent a country a group of countries a union e.g. the European Union a city town a post code zip code province state a region a sub region or any other physical or virtual territory.

Reference is made to which illustrates a system for providing gambling games to players in accordance with an embodiment. The system comprises a third party gaming system that provides central access to a plurality of gambling games a plurality of gaming operator systems that offer play of one or more of the gambling games in one or more jurisdictions an end user device that allows a player to play one or more of the gambling games via one or more operator systems and a data communications network that enables communication between the third party gaming system the gaming operator systems and the end user device .

The third party gaming system is a computer based system that provides central access and management of a plurality of gambling games. Specifically the gaming system maintains a library of gambling games developed by one or more game developers. Gaming operators access the library of gambling games to find and license games for their customers. Players can browse the library of gambling games to select games to play. Once a player has selected a game to play the gaming system provides the player with a game client for the selected game and operator configuration parameters for an appropriate operator system . The game client then uses the operator configuration parameters to dynamically reconfigure itself to communicate with the operator system to play the game.

In some cases the gaming system provides the player with a list of operators that offer the selected game. In other cases an appropriate operator is automatically selected for the player. For example in some cases the player via the end user device may first access a specific gaming operator s website where they are subsequently directed to the third party gaming system . In these cases the player may be restricted to the specific gaming operator s system .

In some cases the gaming system also provides the player with player configuration parameters that allow the game client to dynamically reconfigure itself for certain player attributes including but not limited to the player s jurisdiction currency and or language.

Each gaming operator system is a computer based system that facilitates play of gambling games in one or more jurisdictions. Each gaming operator system is operated by a gaming operator. A single gaming operator may operate a plurality of gaming operator systems . For example a single gaming operator may operate one gaming operator system that serves customers in Italy and one gaming operator system that serves customers in all other jurisdictions. Although the system of shows two gaming operator systems it will be evident to a person of skill in the art that the system may support more than two gaming operator systems.

In traditional gaming systems each gaming operator operates their own website or the like where they offer a predefined list of gambling games to their customers. Players then connect to a particular gaming operator website and select one of the games provided. In contrast in the system of it is the third party gaming system that provides access to the games and the player is connected to an appropriate operator system e.g. one that operates in the user s jurisdiction after they have selected a game.

The end user device is a computing device that allows an associated player to play a gambling game. The end user device may be but is not limited to a personal computer a laptop computer a tablet computer a mobile phone a smart phone a kiosk a thin client a personal game system e.g. Sony s PlayStation 3 or Microsoft s Xbox a device that projects the game to the player an interactive surface e.g. Microsoft Surface or any other device capable of allowing players to play a gambling game. Although the system of shows a single end user device it will be evident to a person of skill in the art that the system may support multiple end user devices associated with various players.

The data communication network may be any type of data network or combination of data networks capable of enabling data communications between the third party gaming system the gaming operator systems and the end user device . For example the communications network may be a public switched telephone network PSTN a mobile telephone network a wired data network a wireless data network or any combination thereof.

Reference is now made to which illustrates a block diagram of an exemplary third party gaming system of . The third party gaming system of comprises a data store for storing data used by the gaming system a developer interface for allowing game developers to upload games to the gaming system an operator interface for allowing gaming operators to find and license new gambling games a player interface for allowing a player to browse the gambling games offered by the gaming system a deployment service for deploying games and other updates to the operator systems a game content distribution service for providing game clients to players an internationalization and localization service for providing localized configuration data for the game client a client configuration service for generating operator specific configuration data for the game client and a data bank reader for obtaining transaction data from the operator systems .

The data store is configured to store data used by the gaming system . For example the data store may be configured to store game data operator data and developer data. Game data may include but is not limited to data definitions of games game rules and game configuration. In some cases the game content itself is also stored in the data store. In other cases the game content is stored by the game content distribution service . Operator data refers to any operator specific information and may include but is not limited to gaming operator authentication information gaming operator profiles and gaming operator financial information. Developer data refers to any developer specific information and may include but is not limited to game developer authentication information a game developer profile and game developer financial information.

The data store may also be configured to store player data. For example in some cases the gaming system may be configured to generate and store player accounts. Each player account may include but is not limited to one or more of the players name billing address including country of residence authentication or log in information e.g. username and password for the third party gaming system game preferences i.e. preferred currency language and other personal data. In some cases the player account may also include authentication or log in information for one or more operators.

The data store may also be configured to store environmental configuration data. Environmental configuration data is data describing the structure of a computing environment including but not limited to IP addresses port s operating system and applications including version number used and or installed on each device in the environment.

The data store may be in the form of a single database a plurality of databases or any other suitable form that allows storing and accessing data.

The developer interface is configured to allow game developers to manage their portfolio of games on the gaming system . Specifically the developer interface allows game developers to load new games onto the gaming system . The term game developer is used herein to mean an entity i.e. company or individual that develops gambling games to be licensed to gaming operators.

In some cases the developer interface is configured to allow a game developer to load game content representing a test instance of a new game on the gaming system . The test instance is then submitted for approval. In some cases the approval is divided into two phases technical approval and product approval. The technical approval may be designed to check that the game works this may done for example via user acceptance testing satisfies the third party gaming system s game policies this may be done for example via correctness checks doesn t do anything malicious this may be done for example via security checks and complies with regulations this may be done for example via compliance checks .

The product approval may be designed to ensure that the game satisfies the third party gaming system s game policies from a game perspective is appropriate with the third party gaming system s policies and spirit correctly displays and uses language tokens and has undergone enough content editing and preparation to be send off to the translators.

Once the test instance has been approved the game content is processed to prepare it for production and stored by the game content distribution service . Processing the game content may for example comprise removing unnecessary components optimization e.g. stripping out white space and or obfuscation e.g. obscuring the game content so the code can t be read . For example the game content distribution service may be configured to remove components such an HTML library which were submitted as part of the test instance but are no longer used in a production environment. Once the game content is stored by the game content distribution service it becomes available for licensing by an operator.

If the test instance is not approved the game is rejected. The game developer is notified along with reasons for the rejection. The game developer then has the option of modifying the game to address the reasons for the rejection. Once the game has been modified the game may be resubmitted for approval.

The developer interface may also be configured to allow developers to place restrictions on all or some of their games. For example in some cases the developer interface may be configured to allow game developers to restrict all or some of their games to specific target markets by configuring jurisdictional and or currency restrictions. However it will be evident to a person of skill in the art that the developer interface may allow the developer use other criteria and or attributes to place restrictions on their games. Restrictions placed on all the games of a particular game developer are referred to as global restrictions. Restrictions placed on only a particular game or games will be referred to as local restrictions.

The developer interface may also be configured to allow game developers to manage and access their financial and operational reports request payment manage their accounts and access resource and reference reading materials relevant to the gaming system . Accordingly the developer interface may be in communication with the data store to access and update the game developer data.

In some cases the developer interface may require the game developer to authenticate themselves using for example a username and password before they are granted access to the developer interface . In some cases such as when a game developer is a company there may be more than one user associated with a game developer. In these cases each user may be given their own account which may have different access rights associated therewith. For example some users may have restricted access e.g. they may be able to load game content and access reference material but will be not able access to financial information whereas other users may have full access.

In some cases the developer interface may be in the form of a web portal. In other cases the developer interface may be in the form of a smart phone application e.g. a native Apple iOS application . However it will be evident to a person of skill in the art that the developer interface may take any suitable form.

The operator interface is configured to allow gaming operators to find license and deploy new games. Specifically the operator interface allows gaming operators to access the library of game content stored by the game content distribution service and select gambling games that they wish to offer to their customers. In some cases operators will be able to browse all of the games in the library. In other cases the list of games shown to a particular operator may be filtered based on one or more criteria. For example in some cases the list of games shown to a particular operator may be filtered based on jurisdiction currency and or developer restrictions.

Once a gaming operator has selected a particular game to license they can configure a game instance of the selected game. A game instance links particular game content with a set of operator defined configuration parameters. The configuration parameters are used to specify the specific game archetype and sub archetype which is used to provide the appropriate game logic for the game.

The configuration parameters may also be used to specify the risk profile for that game. For example the configuration parameters may include but are not limited to overall minimums overall maximums position minimums position maximums bet resolution bet increments chip sizes and denomination sizes. In some cases the operator interface may comprise intelligent heuristics to aid the operator in assessing the risk.

The configuration parameters may also be used to restrict access to the game. For example the configuration parameters may include jurisdiction and or currency restrictions.

Each game instance may be assigned a unique ID. The unique ID may be in the form of a UUID Universally Unique Identifiers that follows the canonical representation XXXXXXXX XXXX XXXX XXXX XXXXXXXXXXXX 8 4 4 4 12 form however it will be evident to a person of skill in the art that other suitable forms may also be used for the unique ID.

Once the game instance is created the game instance is deployed to the gaming operators system . The deployment may be managed by one or more deployment services . Deployment services will be described in greater detail below. In some cases the game content itself is not sent to the operator systems thus deployment of a game instance comprises transferring only the game configuration parameters to the appropriate operator system .

In some cases the operator interface may be configured to allow a gaming operator to create multiple instances of a game. For example in some cases the operator interface may allow a gaming operator to create up to three game instances of any particular game. In some cases the limit on the number of instances of a game may be fixed. In other cases the limit on number of instances of a game may be configurable.

The operator interface may also be configured to allow gaming operators to access financial and operational reporting manage their accounts and access resources and technical references relevant to the gaming system . Accordingly the operator interface may be in communication with the data store to access and update the operator data.

In some cases the operator interface may require the gaming operator to authenticate themselves using for example a username and password before they are granted access to the operator interface . In some cases there may be more than one user associated with the operator. In these cases each user may be given their own account which may have different access rights associated therewith. For example some users may have restricted access e.g. they are able to browse and select games but they are not allowed to access the financial information whereas other users may have full access.

In some cases the operator interface may be in the form of a web portal however it will be evident to a person of skill in the art that the operator interface may take any suitable form.

The player interface allows players to browse and select games from the library of gambling games. In some cases the player may only be allowed to browse and select games that have been licensed by at least one operator. In others cases the player may be allowed browse and select any game regardless of whether it has been licensed by an operator.

In other cases the list of games available or shown to a player may be filtered using one or more other criteria in addition to or instead of filtering based on whether the game has been licensed. For example in some cases the player may only be shown games that are available in the player s jurisdiction. In other cases the player may only be shown games provided by a single operator.

Once a player has selected a game the player interface sends a request for the selected game along with player attributes to the game content distribution service . The game content distribution service then sends the player via the end user device a game client comprising the appropriate game content . The game content distribution service will be described in more detail below. Once the player has received the game client the player uses the game client to communicate with the gaming system and the operator system s . If a player selects a game that has not been licensed by an operator or is not available in the player s jurisdiction the player instead of being directed to an operator system may be directed to a production environment not shown in the third party gaming system where the player is only allowed to play the game in a demo mode e.g. they will not be able to play for real money .

In some cases the player interface may require that the player be authenticated before they are granted access to the player interface . In some cases the player interface may be configured to require the player to manually provide authentication information e.g. a username and password to login to the third party gaming system . Accordingly the player interface may be in communication with the data store to access and update the player data e.g. player account .

In other cases the player interface may be configured to receive authentication information from a trusted source. In these cases the third party gaming system player accounts may reference the player ID for the trusted source and it is this ID that is automatically provided to the player interface and used for authentication. For example the player may access the player interface via a third party site such as Facebook Twitter or OpenID. The player would then give permission for their Facebook Twitter or OpenID account information to be provided to the third party gaming system . When a player accesses the player interface via one of these sites their Facebook. Twitter or OpenID information is sent to the player interface for authentication purposes.

In some cases the player interface may be in the form of a web portal however it will be evident to a person of skill in the art that the player interface may take any suitable form.

Each deployment service e.g. deployment service is configured to deploy and update gaming components from a reference source environment to a target destination environment. A deployment service e.g. deployment service can be configured to push new components or updates from the source to the destination or pull new components or updates from the source to the destination. Each deployment service e.g. deployment service typically communicates with another deployment service in the other environment source destination . For example the deployment service in the gaming system typically communicates with one or more deployment services in the operator systems .

The deployment service in the gaming system is responsible for deploying and updating game components from the gaming system to the operator systems . Typically the deployment service deploys and updates game components to a staging environment in the operator systems . The staging environment is typically used for quality assurance and integration testing. Once the new games and or updates pass the quality assurance and integration testing then they are moved or deployed to a production environment. The configuration of an exemplary operator system comprising a staging environment and a production environment will be described in further detail below in reference to .

In some cases when a gaming operator has selected a new game and created a corresponding game instance via the operator interface the operator interface will notify the deployment service of the new game instance. The deployment service will then deploy the new game instance to the appropriate operator system . Deployment of the new game instance typically comprises taking a snapshot of the game data as described above the game data excludes the game content and packaging it as a game component. The game component is then transmitted to a corresponding deployment service in the operator system . When the operator deployment service receives the new component it executes a deployment script to install the new component.

As described above the deployment service may also be used to update components of the operator system . For example the deployment service may be used to update the software running on one or more of the computers in the operator system . Such updates may be triggered by a system administrator via for example the management server or by an operator via for example the operator interface .

The game content distribution service is configured to store the game content and provide the appropriate game client to players upon request.

As described above in reference to the developer interface once game content representing a test instance of a game is uploaded by a developer via the developer interface and it has been approved the game content is loaded onto the game content distribution service .

Once game content has been uploaded to the content distribution service it forms part of a library of game content that can be accessed by an operator via the operator interface to find and license new game content.

As described above in reference to the player interface a player may use an end user device such as end user device to connect to the player interface . Once connected the player can browse the library of gambling games offered by the gaming system . As described above in some cases the player may be allowed to browse all of the gambling games loaded onto the game content distribution service . In other cases the list of games available to the player may be filtered by one or more criteria. For example the player may only be able to browse the games that have been licensed by at least one operator. In another example the player may only be able to browse games that are offered in their jurisdiction or are offered by a particular operator.

If the user wishes to play one of the games in the library they select the desired game and a request for the selected game is sent to the game content distribution service . In some cases the end user device sends the request directly to the game content distribution service . For example in the case of web based gaming the player interface provides the end user device with an HTML link to each game. When the user selects a game the link is activated causing the end user device to send the request to the game content distribution service . In other cases the end user device sends the request to the player interface and the player interface sends the request to the game content distribution service .

Upon receiving the request the game content distribution service retrieves the game content for the selected game and provides it to the end user device as a game client. In some cases the game content distribution service may hold copies of all of the approved game content in internal or associated memory and thus retrieval of the game content comprises accessing the internal or associated memory to locate the appropriate game content. In other cases the game content is maintained in an external data store and thus retrieval of the game content comprises requesting or obtaining the appropriate game content from the external data store.

In some cases the game content distribution service is also configured to provide configuration data to the end user device to be used to configure the game client for a particular player and or operator. The configuration data may include but is not limited to data allowing the game client to connect to the specific operator e.g. a host name or IP address and or port number and localized strings used to present messages to the player The specific configuration data may be based on but is not limited to which operator is hosting the game play the jurisdiction of the player the language of the player and the currency used to play the game. In some cases at least a portion of the configuration data is obtained from an internationalization and localization service . An exemplary internationalization and localization service will be described in more detail below.

The game content distribution service may also be configured to provide game content to gaming operator quality assurance QA engineers. In these cases a QA request may be distinguished from a player request based on a special parameter in the request. For example QA requests may include a Test Key parameter that contains encoded server connection details. For example the Test Key parameter may be in the following format SERVER HOST ADDRESS xxxx SERVER PORT yyyy where xxxx is either a host name or IP address of a game server and yyyy is the port that the game server is listening on. The Test Key may be encrypted using a private key provided to gaming operator for this purpose. In these cases the game content distribution service will have access to the asymmetric public key for decryption purposes. The game content distribution service may select the appropriate public key based on information provided in the request. For example the game content distribution service may select the appropriate key based on the operator identified in the request.

The internationalization and localization i18n service provides localized configuration data to the game content distribution service to allow the game client to be dynamically reconfigured for a specific jurisdiction language and or currency. Specifically the internationalization and localization service stores several string tables for input display and user interface code for each game. For example there may be an English US string table an English UK string table and a French string table.

In some cases when the game content distribution service receives a request for a particular game the game content distribution service sends a request to the internationalization and localization service for the appropriate localized string table. The internationalization and localization service then selects the appropriate localized string table and sends it to the game content distribution service . The internationalization and localization service may select the appropriate localized string based on for example the specific game jurisdiction of the player language of the player currency of the player and or operator.

The client configuration service is configured to generate and provide operator specific configuration data for the game client to the end user device . The operator specific configuration data may include but is not limited to a list of modes of play available for the selected game in a particular jurisdiction a list of operators that provide a particular mode of play in a particular jurisdiction and operator configuration parameters for a particular operator.

For example in some cases once a player has selected a game via the player interface the player interface sends a request to the game content distribution service for the appropriate game client. In addition to generating the game client and providing it to the player the game content distribution service may be configured to query the client configuration service for a list of modes of play available for the player s jurisdiction. The client configuration service then returns the list of modes of play matching the query to the game content distribution service . The game content distribution service then provides this information to the player via the end user device along with the game client.

Once a player has selected a mode of play via the game client the end user device sends a request to the client configuration service for a list of operators that support the selected game and the selected mode of play in the players jurisdiction. Upon receiving the request the client configuration service generates a list of operators that provide the selected mode of play for the selected game in the players jurisdiction. In some cases generating the list of operators comprises querying the data store to determine the supported modes of play for the selected game in the players jurisdiction. Once the list is compiled the client configuration service provides the list to the game client via the end user device .

Once the player has selected an operator the game client via the end user device sends a request to the client configuration service for a request to connect to the selected operator. Upon receiving the request the client configuration service obtains the appropriate operator configuration settings and then provides them to the game client via the end user device . In some cases obtaining the operator configuration settings may comprise querying the data store for the appropriate configuration settings. The operator configuration settings may include an IP address and port number for the operators system which is used by the game client to dynamically reconfigure itself to connect to the operator system to initiate play of the game.

The data bank reader is configured to obtain game transaction logs from the operator systems for financial and analysis purposes. Specifically the data bank reader may periodically communicate with corresponding data bank services in the operator systems to collect gaming transaction logs for transactions that have occurred since a specified period of time. Typically the specified period of time is the time of the last request. In some cases the transaction log request is made via a RESTful API Application Programming Interface over HTTPS Hypertext Transfer Protocol Secure . The received data may be stored in a secure data store such as data store .

The gaming system may also comprise an additional business interface that allows potential developers and operators to obtain information about the gaming system and to register their interest in the gaming system .

The gaming system may also comprise a management system that allows management of the gaming system . Managing the game system may include one or more of the following a managing game developer accounts including approving changing enabling disabling the accounts and setting up and managing the financials b managing gaming operator accounts including approving changing enabling disabling account and setting up and managing financials c generating reports on aspects of the gaming system such as cash flow submission approvals etc. d managing component releases e managing support tickets from game developers and operators and f managing the library of games.

Reference is now made to which illustrates a block diagram of an exemplary operator system of . The exemplary operator system of comprises a staging environment and a production environment . The staging environment is used for testing and quality assurance whereas the production environment is used for hosting live gaming sessions. Generally the gaming system provides all the gaming components to the staging environment and then once all the expected tests are completed within the staging environment the gaming components in the production environment are synchronized with the gaming components in the staging environment .

Although the exemplary operator system of comprises two environments staging and production in other embodiments the operator system may comprise more than two environments. For example in some embodiments the operator system may comprise a testing environment an integration environment a staging environment and a production environment. In these cases the game system provides all the game components to the testing environment and once all the expected tests are completed within the testing environment the integration environment is synchronized with the testing environment. This process will then be repeated until the gaming components are synchronized in the production environment.

Each environment and comprises a deployment service or a game server or a data bank service or an account link service or a publisher service or a game feed service or a data store or an authentication service or and a wallet service or .

Each deployment service and is configured to deploy and synchronize gaming components from a reference source environment to a target destination environment. In particular the deployment service in the staging environment is configured to receive and implement new and updated gaming components from the deployment service in the gaming system . Similarly the deployment service in the production environment is configured to receive and implement new and updated gaming components from the deployment service in the staging environment .

Whereas the deployment service in the gaming system is typically configured to push new and updated gaming components to the operator system the deployment services and in the staging and production environments and are typically configured to pull new and updated game components from the downstream deployment service or .

In some cases a publisher service or may be used to trigger synchronization of gaming components from one environment to the other. In these cases the publisher service or may send a request or command to the corresponding deployment service and to initiate synchronization from its downstream deployment service or . The publisher service and will be described in more detail below.

Each game server and is configured to host gaming sessions from players using an end user device . Since the game server in the staging environment is used for testing and quality assurance the gaming sessions hosted by this game server are typically established by test players.

In some cases each game server or accepts gaming connections from a game client running on an end user device facilitates authentication and if the player is authenticated allows play of the game. The game server or may allow a player to create a new game or continue an existing game.

Once the game server or receives a game request from a game client running on an end user device the game server or obtains authentication information that allows the player to be authenticated with the operator. In some cases the authentication information is manually obtained from the player. For example the player may be presented with an operator login screen where they are asked to manually enter a username and password for the operator.

In other cases the authentication information may be provided transparently to the game server or by a trusted source. In these cases the operator player accounts may reference the player ID for the trusted source and it is this ID that is automatically provided to the game server or and used for authentication. For example the player may access the system via a third party site such as Facebook Twitter or OpenID. The player would then give permission for their Facebook Twitter or OpenID account information to be provided to the operator system . Then when a player accesses the operator system via one of these sites their Facebook Twitter or OpenID information is sent to the player game server or for authentication purposes.

In yet other cases the third party gaming system may be the trusted source. For example the third party gaming system may provide its own player account information to the game server or .

Once the game server or receives the authentication information it provides it to the account link service or . The account link service or transforms the account information into the appropriate format for the operators legacy authentication service or . The authentication is then either accepted or denied by the authentication service or .

If the player is successfully authenticated then the game server or starts a new game session for the player or allows the player to continue with an existing game session. When a new game session is started e.g. a new hand of Blackjack is dealt the game server or checks to see if the player has sufficient funds in their wallet for the bet made. Specifically the game server or communicates with the operators wallet service or via the account link service or . If the player has sufficient funds in their wallet a game round is created and the funds are moved from the players wallet to the game for purposes of funding the wager.

This action and any other actions taken during the course of the game round are recorded against the game round unless they require additional funds. If they require additional funds the game server or checks to see if the player has sufficient funds in their wallet for the additional wager. For example since splitting a Blackjack hand requires a player to wager an additional amount of money in the game before completing the split the game server or checks to see if the player has sufficient funds. If the player has sufficient funds in their wallet then a child game round is created. Therefore a child round represents the introduction of additional wagered funds into the game round. All decisions related to the additional wager will be stored in the game round details of the child game round.

At the end of the game round the game server or resolves the outcome of the game sessions player wins loses or ties awards any appropriate winnings to the players wallet and closes the game round and any child game rounds. Awarding any appropriate winnings to the player typically comprises the game server or sending instructions to the wallet service or via the account link service or .

Each data bank service and is configured to provide transaction data to the data bank reader in the gaming system upon receiving a request from the data bank reader . For example the databank services and may periodically receive requests from the data bank reader for all transactions that have occurred since the last request.

In some cases upon receiving the request from the data bank reader the databank service or queries the data store or for the transactions since the last request. The data store or then provides the relevant data to the data bank service or where it is then forwarded to the data bank reader . In some cases the data bank services and are configured to package the dataset of transactions in a JSON JavaScript Object Notation formatted groups of messages.

In other cases the data bank service or is configured as a queue. The queue holds topic channels which contain all queued events until they are requested. In these cases when the data bank service or receives a request from the data bank reader it collects all of the data in the appropriate queue and provides it to the data bank service or . In these cases the data bank service or may only query the data store or when there is unexpected system failure in order to recover the queue.

Each data bank service or may also be configured to obtain environmental structure data from the computing devices in its environment. Environmental structure data typically describes the configuration of a computing environment and may include but is not limited to which devices are masters which are slaves the IP Address and or ports used by the devices the operating systems and other applications running on each of the devices. In some cases the environmental structure data may be in the form of XML fragments. The received data may then be stored in a secure data store such as data store or .

The publisher service may then use the environmental structure data to assess and highlight differences between the staging and production environments and . In some cases the publisher service may be able to obtain the environmental data for the production environment via the deployment service . However since the publisher cannot communicate directly with the staging environment it may be able to obtain the environmental data for the staging environment via the deployment service in the production environment and the deployment service in the staging environment . For example the publisher service in the production environment may send a request to the deployment service in the production environment who in turns sends a request to the deployment service in the staging environment . The deployment service obtains the requested information and sends it back to the deployment service who returns it to the publisher service .

The account link service or is configured to act as a translator between the game server or and the operators legacy authentication services and and wallet services and . In some cases the account link service or may comprise an integration service for each legacy service e.g. authentication service and wallet service that allows the account link service or to translate authentication and financial transaction requests from the game server and to the appropriate format for the legacy service.

In some cases when the account link service or receives an authentication request from the game server or the account link service or uses the appropriate integration service to translate the request into the appropriate format for the legacy authentication service or and transmits the translated request to the authentication service or . The authentication service or responds with an indication of whether the authentication was successful or not. For example the authentication service or may provide one of the following responses successful authentication failed authentication or timeout error. The account link service or then forwards the response to the game server or for processing.

In some cases when the account link service or receives a financial transaction request from the game server or the account link service or uses the appropriate integration service to translate the request into the appropriate format for the legacy wallet service or and transmits the translated request to the wallet service or . The response returned by the wallet service or will depend on the type of request. For example where the financial transaction request is a request to remove funds from a players wallet e.g. so that the player can make a wager the wallet service or may respond for example with any one of the following responses insufficient funds or funds in the amount X removed successfully where X is the value of the transaction. Where the financial transaction request is a request to add funds to a players wallet e.g. because they have won a game the wallet service or may respond for example with any one of the following responses unable to complete transfer transfer in the amount of X completed successfully where X is the value of the transaction. Once a response is received it is forwarded to the game server or for processing.

The publisher service or is configured to allow the operator to control the operation of the staging and production environments and .

In some cases the publisher service or may be configured to allow the operator to synchronize one or more gaming components of the current environment with the gaming components of another reference environment. Typically only a publisher service or that resides in an environment that has a reference environment can perform synchronization. For example the publisher service in the production environment may be used to synchronize the gaming components in the production environment with the gaming components in the staging environment . However since the staging environment is the entry point and thus has no reference environment the publisher service may not be able to perform synchronization.

The publisher service or may be configured to allow synchronization of one or more of the following gaming components a game auxiliary service and the game server or . The term auxiliary service is used to include any service in an environment or other than the game server or and includes but is not limited to the deployment service or the account link service or the publisher service or and the game feed service or .

In some cases the publisher service or may use the corresponding deployment service and to complete the synchronization. For example when an operator initiates synchronization of one or more gaming components in the production environment with gaming components in the staging environment the publisher service may transmit a synchronization request to the deployment service . Upon receiving the request the deployment service pulls the identified gaming components from the deployment service in the staging environment and installs them in the production environment .

The publisher service or may also be configured to allow the operator to compare the configuration of a game between two environments prior to initiating synchronization. For example the publisher service may be configured to obtain meta data associated with the game s corresponding components in each environment to display configuration changes. The publisher service may obtain the meta data for its own environment the production environment directly from the data store . However since the publisher service cannot directly access the data store in another environment e.g. the staging environment meta data for the reference environment the staging environment may be obtained via the deployment service . For example the publisher service may transmit a request message to the deployment service in the production environment who in turn sends a request to the deployment service in the staging environment . The deployment service in the staging environment obtains the requested information from the data store in the staging environment and provides it to the deployment service who provides it to the publisher service .

The publisher service or may also be configured to allow the operator to enable or disable games in an environment. For example the publisher service or may be configured to communicate with its game server or to enable or disable games.

The publisher service or may also be configured to allow the operator to enable or disable the corresponding game server or or the entire environment or .

In some cases the publisher service or may be configured to require the user be authenticated before giving them the ability to make changes to the staging or production environment or . For example the publisher service or may require the user to provide a username and password.

The game feed service or is configured to generate a list of games that are currently offered in the environment. In some cases the game feed service or may generate the list of games by querying the corresponding game server or for a list of games that are currently installed and active on the game server or . The operator may use the list generated by the game feed service or to provide their customers with an up to date list of games currently provided. In some cases the game feed service or may be implemented as a RESTful read only interface.

The data store or is configured to store data used by the other components of the environment or . For example the data store or may be configured to store game data. Game data may include but is not limited to game rules and game configuration. Game data does not typically include game content which is stored by the game content distribution service in the gaming system .

The data store or may also be configured to store environmental configuration data. As describe above environmental configuration data is data describing the structure of a computing environment including but not limited to IP addresses port s operating system and applications including version number used and or installed on each device in the environment.

The data store or may be in the form of a single database a plurality of databases or any other suitable form that allows storing and accessing data.

Each authentication service or represents the operators legacy authentication system. The authentication service typically has access to player account information which contains authentication information e.g. username and password which is used to authenticate a player. The authentication service in the staging environment is typically a mock authentication service which only has access to test player accounts. Conversely the authentication service in the production environment typically has access to the real player accounts.

Each wallet service or is the operators legacy wallet or financial service which is used to track the amount of funds in the player accounts. The wallet service in the staging environment is typically a mock wallet service which only has access to mock financial data. Conversely the wallet service in the production environment typically has access to and control over live financial data.

Reference is now made to which illustrates a method for providing gambling games to players using the system of . At step the player accesses the gaming system via an end user device . Typically the player accesses the gaming system via a player interface such as player interface . For example where the player interface is a web portal a player may use a web browser e.g. Internet Explorer installed on the end user device to access the player interface .

In some cases the player must be authenticated before they are granted access to the gaming system . For example the player may be asked for a username and password. In other cases the player authentication information may be automatically provided by a trusted third party. In still other cases the system may allow a player or potential player to access the gaming system without being authenticated. Once the user has gained access to the gaming system the method proceeds to step .

At step the gaming system provides the end user device with a list of one or more gambling games offered by a plurality of different gaming operators. The end user device then presents the list of gambling games to the player in a manner that allows the player to select one of the gambling games to play. Once the user has selected one of the gambling games to play the end user device sends a request to the gaming system to play one of the gambling games. Once the request has been sent the method proceeds to step .

At step the gaming system receives the request to play a selected gambling game from the end user device . The request typically comprises but is not limited to information identifying the selected game. Once the request has been received the method proceeds to step .

At step the gaming system uses the data in the request and player attributes if available to generate a game client for the selected game. For example the gaming system may use the data in the request and the player attributes to generate a game client that has been customized or localized for a specific language currency and or jurisdiction.

The player attributes may include but are not limited to one or more of the following jurisdiction language and currency. It will be evident to a person of skill in the art that any other player attributes may be used instead of or in addition to the attributes listed.

In some cases at least a portion of the player attributes are obtained directly from the player. For example when the player first accesses the gaming system the player may be asked to provide certain information such as their jurisdiction currency language etc. In other cases at least a portion of the player attributes may be obtained from another source. For example the players jurisdiction may be automatically determined from the users IP address or via geolocation browser features. In cases where automatic detection is enabled the user may have the option to override the automatic detection to correct an incorrect detection. Alternatively the players jurisdiction may be determined from the players account. For example the players billing address may be used as the default jurisdiction.

In some cases at least some of the player attributes are obtained from both data obtained directly from the player and data obtained from another source. For example the players jurisdiction may be based on a combination of the automatically detected jurisdiction the manually entered jurisdiction and the jurisdiction information in the players profile. A method for reconciling differences between these three modes of jurisdiction detection will be described in reference to .

At step the gaming system uses the data in the request and the player data to generate a list of modes of play that are available to the player for the selected game. The modes of play may include but are not limited to demo play virtual currency play and real money play.

The modes of play available for the selected game may be restricted based on the player attributes. For example the modes of play available may be limited based on the jurisdiction of the player. Specifically all modes of play may not be available in all jurisdictions. For example some jurisdictions may not support real money play and therefore a player in these jurisdictions may be limited to demo play or virtual currency play. Similarly there may be some jurisdictions that do not support real money play or virtual money play therefore a player in these jurisdictions may be limited to demo play. Once the list of modes of play is generated the method proceeds to step .

If there are no modes of play available for the selected game e.g. if the player is not allowed to play this game for some reason e.g. they don t meet the age requirements the gaming system may generate an error message that is provided to the end user device .

At step the gaming system provides the end user device with the game client and the list of one or more modes of play. The game client then presents the list of modes of play in a manner that allows the user to select one of the modes of play. At this point the user may also be given the option of changing or altering their jurisdiction information. Once a user has selected a mode of play the game client via the end user device sends the mode selection to the gaming system and the method proceeds to step .

At step the gaming system receives the mode selection from the game client via the end user device . Once the mode selection is received the method proceeds to step .

At step the gaming system generates a list of one or more operators that offer the selected game and mode of play in the players jurisdiction. The list of operators may be further limited or filtered based on other player or operator attributes. For example the gaming system may be configured to filter or restrict the list of operators to operators that have at least X game s of type Y to operators with a loyalty program to operators with a bonus program to operators that support the players currency to operators that support the players language and to operators that support a certain deposit method or any other suitable criteria. Once the list of operators has been generated the method proceeds to step .

If there are no operators that offer the selected game and mode of play in the player s jurisdiction the gaming system may generate an error message which is provided to the game client via the end user device . The game client then displays the error message to the player. After displaying the message game client may take the player back to the mode of play selection where they may select another mode of play.

At step the gaming system provides the list of one or more operators to the game client via the end user device where the list is presented to the player in a manner that allows the player to select an operator. Once the player has selected an operator the game client via the end user device sends the gaming system data indicating the desired operator. Once the data is sent the system proceeds to step . In some cases this step step and the next step are bypassed and the method proceeds directly from step to step . For example when the list of operators generated in step comprises only one operator the method may directly proceed from step to step .

At step the gaming system receives the data indicating the desired operator. Once the request has been received the method proceeds to step .

At step the gaming system generates operator configuration parameters for the desired operator or only operator . Once the gaming system has generated the operator configuration parameters the method proceeds to step . In some cases the gaming system may also generates or obtain an operator string table that comprises game strings specific to the operator.

At step the gaming system provides the operator configuration parameters and the operator string table if available to the game client via the end user device . Once the game client has received the operator configuration information it dynamically reconfigures itself using the operator configuration parameters and the operator string table to communicate with the operator system to play the game.

In some cases the player may not be given the ability to select the mode of play. For example the gaming system may be configured to automatically select a mode of play in certain cases. For example the gaming system may be configured to automatically select the mode of play if there is only one mode of play available to the user. The gaming system may alternatively be configured to automatically select a mode of play using one or more other criteria. In these cases the gaming system may generate the list of operators providing the selected game prior to providing the game client to the player. The game client and the list of operators may then be provided to the player together.

Reference is now made to which illustrates a method for determining the players jurisdiction when there is conflict between the various methods for determining the players jurisdiction. As described above the players jurisdiction may be obtained using one of the following three methods 1 the jurisdiction may be automatically detected using for example the players IP address or geolocation detection 2 the jurisdiction may be manually entered by the player and 3 the jurisdiction may be automatically retrieved from the players account information e.g. billing address .

It is possible that all three methods will not produce the same jurisdiction. There are thus five possible permutations and which may occur. In the first permutation all of the methods produce the same results. In the second permutation there is a single mismatch with the automatic detection and manual entry matching but the account information does not match. In the third permutation there is a single mismatch with the automatic detection and account information matching but the manual entry does not match. In the fourth permutation there is a single mismatch with the manual entry and account information matching but the automatic detection does not mach. In the fifth and final permutation each method produces a different result.

The gaming system may apply a set of rules based on which permutation occurs. Ultimately this determines what game client including internationalization and localization configuration operator configuration is provided to the player.

Generally if the first permutation occurs the gaming system will use the jurisdiction detected by the three methods.

In some cases if any of second to fifth permutations or occurs the gaming system may be configured to ignore any automatic detections and manual entries and rely solely on the information in the players account e.g. billing address .

In other cases the gaming system may only allow play if the automatic detection matches the player account information e.g. billing address . For example some jurisdictions may require that the automatically detected jurisdiction match the account information e.g. billing address . In these cases only the first and second permutations and would allow play to continue. In all other cases the player would be blocked from playing.

In still other cases if the automatic detection does not match the player account information e.g. billing address the automatically detected jurisdiction will be used. For example some jurisdictions may allow a mismatch between the automatic detection and the account information and may allow tailoring of the game client to support the rules governing play for the jurisdiction that the player is currently in.

It will be apparent to a person of skill in the art that domestic and foreign rules may go both ways. For example an operator may specify that play is only permitted from certain countries. Similarly a country may specify that play in their territory is permitted under certain circumstances regardless of an operators individual policies. The jurisdiction reconciliation rules can be adjusted accordingly to take account of the domestic and foreign rules that apply.

Reference is now made to which shows a message diagram illustrating the technical messages exchanged during steps to of method . At the player interface receives a request from an end user device to play a selected game. At the player interface sends the request which identifies the selected game along with one or more player attributes to the game content distribution service . The player attributes may include but are not limited to one or more of the following the players jurisdiction the players currency and the players language. At the game content distribution service sends a request to the internationalization and localization service for the string table for the specified game for the players language jurisdiction and or currency if this information was provided as part of the request from the player interface . At the internationalization and localization service provides the string table matching the request to the game content distribution service . At the game content distribution service sends a request to the client configuration service for a list of modes of play for the selected game for the players jurisdiction. At the client configuration service provides a list of modes of play for the selected game in the players jurisdiction. At the game content distribution service generates a game client for the game and provides the game client the string table and the list of available modes of play to the end user device . The string table allows the game client to be dynamically configured for the players jurisdiction currency and or language. As described above by only providing the player with the string table required for their jurisdiction currency and or language instead of all the possible string tables the amount of data sent to the end user device can be reduced.

Reference is now made to which shows the technical messages that may be exchanged during steps to of method . At the game client running on the end user device receives a mode of play selection from the player. At the game client via the end user device sends the client configuration service a request for operators supporting the selected game and selected mode of play in the players jurisdiction. In some cases the request may specify other parameters to further limit the list of operators. For example the request may further specify that the list should only include operators offering a rewards program. At the client configuration service sends a query to the data store for operators that offer the selected game and selected mode of play in the players jurisdiction and that also meet any additional requirements specified . At the data store searches its data and generates a list of operators that meet the specified criteria. The data store then provides the list of operators to the client configuration service . The client configuration service then forwards the list of operators to the game client via the end user device . Upon receipt of the operator list the game client presents the list of operators to the player.

Reference is now made to which shows the technical messages that may be exchanged during steps and of method . At the game client running on the end user device receives an operator selection from the player. At the game client via the end user device sends the client configuration service a request for operator configuration parameters for the selected operator. As described above the operator configuration parameters allow the game client to be dynamically configured to communicate with the selected operator. The operator configuration parameters may include but are not limited to the IP address or host name of the operators production game server i.e. game server and the port number. At the client configuration service sends a query to the data store for the operator configuration parameters for the selected operator. At step the data store sends the client configuration service the operator configuration parameters for the selected operators. At the client configuration service sends the operator configuration parameters for the selected operator to the game client via the end user device . At the game client via the end user device sends a request for the operator string table to the internalization and the localization service . At the internalization and localization service returns the requested operator string table. At the game client dynamically reconfigures itself to use the operator configuration data and the operator string table. Once the game client is configured it connects to the operators system to initiate play of the game.

Reference is now made to which illustrates a method for playing a gambling game with a selected operator. At step once the game client has received the operator configuration parameters for the selected operator and reconfigured itself using the operator configuration parameters it connects to the operator system to initiate play of the gambling game. Typically the game client connects to the production game server .

At step upon receiving a connection request from a game client authentication information is obtained from the player. Where the player has an existing account with the operator the player may be asked to provide their authentication information e.g. username and password associated with their account. Where the user has forgotten their username and or password they may request that the username and or password may be recovered. Where the player does not have an existing account with the operator the player may be asked to create a new account. In other cases the authentication information may be automatically provided to the operator system by a trusted source.

At step the operator system determines if the player has been authenticated. In some cases this involves the game server sending the authentication information obtained in step to the account link service who translates the authentication information to an acceptable format for the authentication service . The account link service then sends the formatted authentication information to the authentication service . The authentication service then responds to the account link service with information identifying whether the player is authenticated. The account link service then forwards the information to the game server . If the player has not been authenticated then the method ends at step . Conversely if the player has been authenticated the method then proceeds to step .

At step the operator system obtains player attributes from the players account. In some cases this involves the game server querying the player data in the data store. The player attributes may comprise but are not limited to the players currency the players billing address including country of residence an or the players language. Once the player attributes have been obtained the method proceeds to step .

At step the operator system determines whether the player data is different than the player data used by the gaming system to configure the game client. If the player data is different than the player data then the method proceeds to step . If the player data is the same as the player data then the method proceeds to step .

At step updated game configuration data is obtained for the game client. In some cases the game server may obtain the updated game configuration data from the data store . The game configuration data may comprise but is not limited to a localized string table. Once the updated game configuration data is obtained the method proceeds to step 

At step the updated configuration data is provided to the game client. For example the game server may send the updated game configuration data to the game client via the end use device . Once the game client has been sent the method proceeds to step .

At step the game client dynamically reconfigures itself to use the new configuration data. Once the reconfiguration is complete the method proceeds to step .

Reference is now made to which illustrates various components of an exemplary computing based device which may be implemented as any form of a computing and or electronic device and in which the methods described herein may be implemented.

Computing based device comprises one or more processors which may be microprocessors controllers or any other suitable type of processors for processing computer executable instructions to control the operation of the device to implement the method of or . In some examples for example where a system on a chip architecture is used the processors may include one or more fixed function blocks also referred to as accelerators which implement a part of the method of or in hardware rather than software or firmware . Platform software comprising an operating system or any other suitable platform software may be provided at the computing based device to enable application software to be executed on the device.

The computer executable instructions may be provided using any computer readable media that is accessible by computing based device . Computer readable media may include for example computer storage media such as memory and communications media. Computer storage media such as memory includes volatile and non volatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EPROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other non transmission medium that can be used to store information for access by a computing device. In contrast communication media may embody computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism. As defined herein computer storage media does not include communication media. Although the computer storage media memory is shown within the computing based device it will be appreciated that the storage may be distributed or located remotely and accessed via a network or other communication link e.g. using communication interface .

The computing based device also comprises an input output controller arranged to output display information to a display device which may be separate from or integral to the computing based device . The display information may provide a graphical user interface. The input output controller is also arranged to receive and process input from one or more devices such as a user input device e.g. a mouse or a keyboard . In an embodiment the display device may also act as the user input device if it is a touch sensitive display device. The input output controller may also output data to devices other than the display device e.g. a locally connected printing device not shown in .

The term processor and computer are used herein to refer to any device with processing capability such that it can execute instructions. Those skilled in the art will realize that such processing capabilities are incorporated into many different devices and therefore the term computer includes set top boxes media players digital radios PCs servers mobile telephones personal digital assistants and many other devices.

Those skilled in the art will realize that storage devices utilized to store program instructions can be distributed across a network. For example a remote computer may store an example of the process described as software. A local or terminal computer may access the remote computer and download a part or all of the software to run the program. Alternatively the local computer may download pieces of the software as needed or execute some software instructions at the local terminal and some at the remote computer or computer network . Those skilled in the art will also realize that by utilizing conventional techniques known to those skilled in the art that all or a portion of the software instructions may be carried out by a dedicated circuit such as a DSP programmable logic array or the like.

Any range or device value given herein may be extended or altered without losing the effect sought as will be apparent to the skilled person.

It will be understood that the benefits and advantages described above may relate to one embodiment or may relate to several embodiments. The embodiments are not limited to those that solve any or all of the stated problems or those that have any or all of the stated benefits and advantages.

Any reference to an item refers to one or more of those items. The term comprising is used herein to mean including the method blocks or elements identified but that such blocks or elements do not comprise an exclusive list and a method or apparatus may contain additional blocks or elements.

The steps of the methods described herein may be carried out in any suitable order or simultaneously where appropriate. Additionally individual blocks may be deleted from any of the methods without departing from the spirit and scope of the subject matter described herein. Aspects of any of the examples described above may be combined with aspects of any of the other examples described to form further examples without losing the effect sought. Where elements of the figures are shown connected by arrows it will be appreciated that these arrows show just one example flow of communications including data and control messages between elements. The flow between elements may be in either direction or in both directions.

It will be understood that the above description of a preferred embodiment is given by way of example only and that various modifications may be made by those skilled in the art. Although various embodiments have been described above with a certain degree of particularity or with reference to one or more individual embodiments those skilled in the art could make numerous alterations to the disclosed embodiments without departing from the spirit or scope of this invention.

