---

title: Document template licensing
abstract: Methods and systems for licensing a document template are provided herein. The method includes obtaining, within a computing device, a license for a document template from a marketplace service. The method also includes downloading the document template to the computing device. The method includes providing a functional experience of a document derived from the document template to a licensed user. The method further includes sharing a license-restricted document with an unlicensed user in response to an input from the licensed user, wherein the license-restricted document provides a reduced-functionality experience of the document derived from the document template to the unlicensed user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08725650&OS=08725650&RS=08725650
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08725650
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120126
---
Companies that distribute documents have limited opportunities to protect the content that they are selling from being reused by unlicensed users. As used herein the term documents may refer to files that include content surrounded by metadata. The challenge that these companies face is that they rarely sell the final form of a document. Instead these companies typically sell document templates. These document templates e.g. templates for legal documents presentations or brochures among others enable the users who buy them to achieve a higher quality of document. However these document templates are typically further customized by the end user. Thus because the user is allowed to edit the document the user can also use features such as for example copy and paste features to reuse components of the document template in other documents.

For certain types of documents that are used in a business context e.g. business plans or project reports licensing enforcement is a challenge. This challenge results from the fact that there is a strong expectation that peers or customers of the purchaser should be allowed to edit the document as well. Thus the electronic document should be flexible enough to be edited by multiple people while still preventing mass unlicensed reuse of the original document template.

Companies who sell document templates typically use legal restrictions to enforce licensing. The document template once sold is electronically unrestricted but the user often signs a license agreement stating that they will not share the document template with others.

In addition some companies use digital rights management DRM to encrypt documents containing the document templates and to force the user to sign in before they can edit or possibly even view the documents. This solution is particularly cumbersome since the DRM technology may be time consuming and costly. Moreover if the document is to be shared with other users beyond the purchaser there may be a burdensome sign up step for each new user who desires access. Furthermore the application which renders this document may have to employ some kind of screen capture blocking software to ensure that imagery which the provider would wish to protect from unlicensed usage was not simply screen grabbed.

The following presents a simplified summary of the innovation in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects described herein. This summary is not an extensive overview of the claimed subject matter. It is intended to neither identify key nor critical elements of the claimed subject matter nor delineate the scope of the subject innovation. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts of the claimed subject matter in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

An embodiment provides a method for licensing a document template. The method includes obtaining within a computing device a license for a document template from a marketplace service. The method also includes downloading the document template to the computing device. The method includes providing a functional experience of a document derived from the document template to a licensed user. The method further includes sharing a license restricted document with an unlicensed user in response to an input from the licensed user wherein the license restricted document provides a reduced functionality experience of the document derived from the document template to the unlicensed user.

Another embodiment provides a system for licensing a document template. The system includes a computing device configured to obtain an entitlement for a document template in response to an input from a licensed user. The computing device is also configured to provide a rich experience of a document derived from the document template to the licensed user wherein the rich experience includes a quality and a functionality of the document that are in accordance with the entitlement. The computing device is further configured to enable the licensed user to share a reduced functionality experience of the document derived from the document template with an unauthorized user wherein sharing the reduced functionality experience of the document includes sharing a license restricted document.

Another embodiment provides one or more non transitory computer readable storage media for storing computer readable instructions. The computer readable instructions provide a document template licensing system when executed by one or more processing devices. The computer readable instructions include code configured to acquire a document template in response to an input by a user and determine if the user has an entitlement for the document template. The computer readable instructions also include code configured to provide the user with access to a functional experience of a document derived from the document template in accordance with conditions of the entitlement in response to determining that the user has the entitlement for the document template. Further the computer readable instructions include code configured to provide the user with access to a restricted experience of the document derived from the document template in response to determining that the user does not have the entitlement for the document template.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form these concepts are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

The same numbers are used throughout the disclosure and figures to reference like components and features. Numbers in the series refer to features originally found in numbers in the series refer to features originally found in numbers in the series refer to features originally found in and so on.

Embodiments disclosed herein set forth a method and system for licensing document templates as well as enforcing the licenses for the document templates. As used herein the term document template refers to a style guide for a document. For instance a word processing document template can include but is not limited to including formatting styles boilerplate text headers footers macros dictionaries toolbars or auto text entries among others. Such document templates may be used for facilitating the creation of documents such as but not limited to word processing documents spreadsheet documents presentation documents drawings documents and collaboration documents. In addition the document templates may have one or more web based software application extensions embedded within or attached thereto.

According to embodiments disclosed herein web based software application extensions may be referred to as web add ins. A web add in provides a region containing a web page within an application. The web add in provides new and interactive content types and functionalities. Like web pages web add ins can be built using standard web technologies such as but not limited to hypertext markup language HTML JavaScript representational state transfer REST . In contrast to existing extensibility technologies like add ins and visual basic for applications VBA web add ins enable a single codebase to run on multiple environments including rich client applications mobile phone applications tablet applications and applications configured to run on various personal computer PC operating systems such as MICROSOFT WINDOWS available from Microsoft Corporation of Redmond Wash. Web add ins can be acquired by end users from a virtual marketplace service or from collaboration platform websites such as websites developed using MICROSOFT SHAREPOINT available from Microsoft Corporation of Redmond Wash. in the form of stand alone extensions or subcomponents of document template solutions or applications.

Web add ins can be configured to do or provide anything a web page or web service can do or provide. For instance web add ins can provide an interactive user interface UI custom logic through dynamic HTML DHTML or JavaScript leverage JavaScript frameworks like JQuery or connect to REST web services via HTTP AJAX. Web add ins can also host controls provided in ADOBE FLASH available from Adobe Systems of San Jose Calif. MICROSOFT SILVERLIGHT available from Microsoft Corporation of Redmond Wash. or other application frameworks for developing rich web based applications and content. In addition to providing the functionality of a web page within a document web add ins can interact with a hosting application through a JavaScript library that provides application programming interfaces APIs for reading and writing to documents as well as handling key application and user events like selection change.

In some embodiments a web add in has a reference to and a description of a web server that is capable of providing a web page or web service. The reference to and description of the web server is referred to herein as a web add in manifest or simply a manifest. The web page or web service can be connected to a document or an application through a web add in.

A virtual marketplace service is provided that facilitates users to browse search and choose from available manifests. The marketplace service may also enable users to browse search for and choose from available document templates which may include any number of web add ins. In some embodiments a user may search for a specific document template and then determine desired web add in manifests to be used in conjunction with the document template. In other embodiments a user may search for a particular web add in manifest and in the process may locate a document template that contains the web add in in the desired form.

One or more web servers are also provided for powering web add ins that are located within or bound to document templates. In some embodiments the web servers are hosts to download files such as HTML or JavaScript files. In some embodiments the web servers provide a set of web services that connect to a rich back end that includes server side logic.

For ease of illustration and description a web add in is used herein at times to collectively refer to a manifest and the ability for a web server to provide one or more of the following 1 one or more HTML files 2 one or more JavaScript files and 3 one or more web services to access server side functionality and content that add value to a document or application.

In some embodiments users that own document templates including web add ins or have trial access to such document templates can use the document templates to create documents or can insert the web add ins into documents. In some embodiments any user can utilize a document template but may only be provided with a restricted or reduced functionality experience of the document template. For example the user may be forced to view some form of advertising within a document derived from the document template may be able to insert watermarked images only within the document or may be able to invoke functionality to perform calculations on limited data sets within the document. Trials in this instance could be used to provide a time limited free way to access the full functionality of the document derived from the document template. Further in some embodiments certain document templates are offered free of charge. In any case the users can then distribute the document templates containing the web add ins or documents derived from such document templates to other users who may or may not be licensed if applicable to use the document templates. The document templates or documents derived from the document templates may be distributed in any way that files are distributed. When a user receives a document template containing a web add in the user can obtain trial rights to the document template or purchase the document template without having to visit a marketplace service. Once a user has purchased an entitlement or license for a document template the document template as well as the web add ins within the document template may become fully functional or may function to the extent that is guaranteed by the particular license.

As a preliminary matter some of the figures describe concepts in the context of one or more structural components variously referred to as functionality modules features elements etc. The various components shown in the figures can be implemented in any manner for example by software hardware e.g. discrete logic components etc. firmware and so on or any combination of these implementations. In one embodiment the various components may reflect the use of corresponding components in an actual implementation. In other embodiments any single component illustrated in the figures may be implemented by a number of actual components. The depiction of any two or more separate components in the figures may reflect different functions performed by a single actual component. provides details regarding one system that may be used to implement the functions shown in the figures.

Other figures describe the concepts in flowchart form. In this form certain operations are described as constituting distinct blocks performed in a certain order. Such implementations are exemplary and non limiting. Certain blocks described herein can be grouped together and performed in a single operation certain blocks can be broken apart into plural component blocks and certain blocks can be performed in an order that differs from that which is illustrated herein including a parallel manner of performing the blocks. The blocks shown in the flowcharts can be implemented by software hardware firmware manual processing and the like or any combination of these implementations. As used herein hardware may include computer systems discrete logic components such as application specific integrated circuits ASICs and the like as well as any combinations thereof.

As to terminology the phrase configured to encompasses any way that any kind of functionality can be constructed to perform an identified operation. The functionality can be configured to perform an operation using for instance software hardware firmware and the like or any combinations thereof.

The term logic encompasses any functionality for performing a task. For instance each operation illustrated in the flowcharts corresponds to logic for performing that operation. An operation can be performed using for instance software hardware firmware etc. or any combinations thereof.

As utilized herein terms component system client and the like are intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware software e.g. in execution and or firmware or a combination thereof. For example a component can be a process running on a processor an object an executable a program a function a library a subroutine and or a computer or a combination of software and hardware.

By way of illustration both an application running on a server and the server can be a component. One or more components can reside within a process and a component can be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers. The term processor is generally understood to refer to a hardware component such as a processing unit of a computer system.

Furthermore the claimed subject matter may be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement the disclosed subject matter. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any non transitory computer readable device or media.

Non transitory computer readable storage media can include but are not limited to magnetic storage devices e.g. hard disk floppy disk and magnetic strips among others optical disks e.g. compact disk CD and digital versatile disk DVD among others smart cards and flash memory devices e.g. card stick and key drive among others . In contrast computer readable media generally i.e. not necessarily storage media may additionally include communication media such as transmission media for wireless signals and the like.

The user device A A is configured to communicate with a marketplace service server to obtain document templates for one or more applications that execute on the user device A A as will be described in greater detail herein. The user device A A is also configured to distribute one or more document templates to one or more other user devices which in the illustrated embodiment include a user device B B and a user device N N. The user device A A may additionally or alternatively obtain web add ins for one or more applications from the user device B B or the user device N N. The user device B B and the user device N N may be personal computers PCs desktop workstations laptop computers tablet computers notebook computers personal digital assistants PDAs electronic book readers game consoles set top boxes consumer electronics devices server computers or any other type of computing devices configured to perform the various operations described herein.

The user device A A is configured to execute an operating system and one or more application programs such as in the illustrated embodiment a marketplace application a web browser application a document template development application a distribution application a document template modifying application and one or more other applications not shown . In various embodiments the document template modifying application may be configured to incorporate document templates including web add ins into documents. In some embodiments two or more of the above applications and are combined in a single application program. In some embodiments the document template modifying application includes one or more features provided by the marketplace application the web browser application the document template development application or the distribution application . The operating system is a computer program for controlling the operation of the user device A A. The application programs are executable programs configured to execute on top of the operating system to provide various functionalities described herein.

Although the applications and are illustrated as being hosted on the user device A A one or more of these applications may be implemented as one or more websites or one or more web pages within one or more websites that are operating on the World Wide Web the Web . In some embodiments one or more of these applications is implemented on the marketplace service server or one or more other servers which are accessible by the user device A A via the web browser application . Moreover although the user device A A is illustrated as including the applications and in some implementations the user device A A includes one or more of these applications but not all of these applications as in the illustrated embodiment. Accordingly the illustrated embodiment should not be interpreted as being limited to a device that necessarily includes all of the illustrated applications and .

The marketplace application is an application program through which a user can access a virtual marketplace service to obtain marketplace content such as applications and document templates including web add ins which are hosted by the marketplace service server . The marketplace application in some embodiments is a marketplace client application installed on the user device A A that provides a graphical user interface GUI through which a user can browse marketplace content search for marketplace content download marketplace content manage marketplace content create and manage user accounts read reviews on marketplace content and otherwise interact with the marketplace service server . Although the marketplace application is illustrated as residing on the user device A A with the applications and it should be understood that in some implementations the user device A A includes only the marketplace application or the marketplace application and one or more of the applications and but not all of these applications.

The web browser application is an application program through which a user can access information resources on the web via the network . In some embodiments the web browser application allows a user to access a marketplace website hosted by or for the marketplace service server . The marketplace website may provide a web based GUI through which a user can browse marketplace content search for marketplace content download marketplace content manage marketplace content create and manage user accounts read reviews on marketplace content and otherwise interact with the marketplace service server . Although the web browser application is illustrated as residing on the user device A A with the applications and it should be understood that in some implementations the user device A A includes only the web browser application or the web browser application and one or more of the applications and but not all of these applications.

The document template development application is an application program through which a user can develop document templates. In some embodiments the document template development application is or includes a development environment in which document templates can be built using web technologies such as but not limited to HTML JavaScript and REST. In some embodiments the document template development application includes a functionality to facilitate submitting document templates to the marketplace service server for inclusion in a virtual marketplace service provided by the marketplace service server . In other embodiments the marketplace application provides this functionality. Although the document template development application is illustrated as residing on the user device A A with the applications and it should be understood that in some implementations the user device A A includes only the document template development application or the document template development application and one or more of the applications and but not all of these applications.

The distribution application is an application program through which a user can distribute document templates containing web add ins as well as documents containing such document templates to the user device B B the user device N N or other users devices not shown . In some embodiments the distribution application is an email application such as MICROSOFT OUTLOOK available from Microsoft Corporation of Redmond Wash. through which a user can create an email attach a document containing a document template to the email and send the email to one or more email addresses that are associated with one or more users. In some embodiments the distribution application is a file sharing application through which a user can share a document template or a document containing a document template. It is contemplated that the file sharing application may or may not require a password or other authentication credentials to download the document template or the document containing the document template. In some embodiments the distribution application is a media application. In some embodiments the distribution application is included in another application and is provided at least in part for distributing the document template within the other application which may or may not be configured to utilize the document template. In some embodiments the distribution application is a web application accessible through the web browser application . Although the distribution application is illustrated as residing on the user device A A with the applications and it should be understood that in some implementations the user device A A includes only the distribution application or the distribution application and one or more of the applications and but not all of these applications.

The document template modifying application is an application program that is configured to facilitate the incorporation of one or more document templates as well as any associated web add ins into a document. In some embodiments the document template modifying application is an application such as but not limited to a word processing application spreadsheet application presentation application drawing application photography application design application video game application music application video application or a collaboration application. In some embodiments the document template modifying application is MICROSOFT WORD available from Microsoft Corporation of Redmond Wash. MICROSOFT EXCEL available from Microsoft Corporation of Redmond Wash. MICROSOFT POWERPOINT available from Microsoft Corporation of Redmond Wash. MICROSOFT VISIO available from Microsoft Corporation of Redmond Wash. or MICROSOFT SHAREPOINT available from Microsoft Corporation of Redmond Wash. among others. Alternatively the document template modifying application may be any other application that supports document templates as well as any associated web add ins. Although the document template modifying application is illustrated as residing on the user device A A with the applications and it should be understood that in some implementations the user device A A includes only the document template modifying application or the document template modifying application and one or more of the applications and but not all of these applications. Further in some embodiments the web browser application facilitates access to web applications configured to provide the same or similar functionality as described above for the document template modifying application .

The user device A A is illustrated as being in communication with a document data store a document template data store a web add in data store and an entitlement data store . The document data store the document template data store the web add in data store and the entitlement data store or any combinations thereof may be stored in a memory not shown of the user device A A or may be accessible from an external source that may be local or remote to the user device A A. In some embodiments two or more of the data stores and are combined.

The document data store is configured to store documents such as but not limited to word processing documents spreadsheet documents presentation documents drawings documents collaboration documents or other documents created by or for the document template modifying application . The documents stored in the document data store may include one or more documents derived from document templates. Further such document templates may have one or more web add ins embedded within or attached thereto. The documents stored in the document data store may be opened by the document template modifying application . The documents stored in the data store may include new or blank documents documents created on the user device A A documents downloaded to the user device A A from a website an email attachment a file sharing application another computer or device such as the marketplace service server the user device B B or the user device N N or documents transferred to the user device A A from an external memory device such as a flash memory drive CD DVD or other physical media.

The document template data store is configured to store document templates for facilitating the creation of documents such as but not limited to word processing documents spreadsheet documents presentation documents drawings documents and collaboration documents. The document templates stored in the document template data store may have one or more web add ins embedded within or attached thereto. In addition documents derived from document templates such as the document templates stored within the document template data store may be stored within the document data store . Further the user may choose which document templates to store within the document template data store as well as which documents to store within the document data store .

In various embodiments the document templates stored in the document template data store may be opened by the document template modifying application . The licensing state of the document template may determine the quality functionality and accuracy of the document template that is opened within the document template modifying application . The document templates stored in the document template data store may include new or blank document templates document templates created on the user device A A document templates downloaded to the user device A A from a website an email attachment a file sharing application or another computer or device such as the web marketplace service server the user device B B or the user device N N or document templates transferred to the user device A A from an external memory device such as a flash memory drive CD DVD or other physical media.

In various embodiments the document template modifying application allows for varying levels of modification of a particular document template or document derived from a document template. The level of modification which is provided by the document template modifying application is determined by the licensing state of the document template. For example the document template modifying application may allow the user to add delete or change content within a document template. However the quality functionality and accuracy with which the document template may be viewed or printed may vary according to the particular license obtained by the user.

In various embodiments the web add in data store is a marketplace web add in manifest store. In addition in some embodiments the web add in data store is configured to locally store web add in manifests for web add ins distributed throughout the marketplace service server . The web add in manifests each include a reference to and a description of one or more web servers such as one or more web servers hosted by or for the marketplace service server . The web add in manifests stored in the web add in data store may include manifests created on the user device A A manifests downloaded to the user device A A from a website an email attachment a document a file sharing application or another computer or device such as the marketplace service server the user device B B or the user device N N or manifests transferred to the user device A A from an external memory device such as a flash memory drive CD DVD or other physical media. In various embodiments any number of the web add in manifests stored within the web add in data store may be associated with web add ins that are bound to any number of the document templates stored within the document template data store .

The entitlement data store is configured to store entitlements for web add ins and document templates such as the document templates stored in the document template data store . Entitlements may include free entitlements trial entitlements and paid entitlements. Free entitlements may be configured to provide full or reduced functionality. Trial entitlements allow a user to access a document template with one or more restriction for using the document template. These restrictions include but are not limited to time restrictions use restrictions functionality restrictions or any combinations thereof. In some embodiments the user is provided an option to purchase the document template after expiration of the trial entitlement. Paid entitlements may include multiple tiers such as basic and premium. A premium paid entitlement may provide additional functionality above and beyond the functionality provided with a basic paid entitlement. Paid entitlements may be subscription based. Moreover entitlements may be configured to auto renew.

Time restrictions can be used to restrict the amount of time a document template can be used before a trial entitlement expires. In some embodiments a time restriction is cumulative such that time using the document template is added until a time limit is reached at which point the trial entitlement may expire. In some embodiments a time restriction is reset after the time limit is reached. In these embodiments any changes to the document template or to a document to which the document template is being applied may be reset or may be saved if the user purchases the web add in. In some embodiments a time restriction is combined with a functionality restriction or a use restriction.

Use restrictions can be used to restrict the number of times a document template can be used before a trial entitlement expires. Use restrictions can be used to restrict usage of a document template to a certain number of users. For instance a trial entitlement for a document template may be acquired for a group of users but a use restriction can limit the maximum number of users to say three users at a given. In some embodiments each use has a time limit or other time restriction associated therewith. In some embodiments a use restriction is combined with a time restriction or a functionality restriction.

Functionality restrictions can be used to restrict the functionality of a document template. For instance a functionality restriction may restrict the functionality of a document template to being viewable and printable but not editable. Other functionality restrictions are contemplated. In some embodiments a functionality restriction is combined with a time restriction or a use restriction.

In various embodiments if an entitlement is obtained for a particular web add in associated document templates are provided for free. In other embodiments if an entitlement is obtained for a particular document template web add ins which are bound to or contained within the document template are provided for free. Further in other embodiments entitlements for document templates and web add ins are sold separately. For example in some embodiments an entitlement for a document template may be used to determine whether a user is authorized to download the document template from the marketplace service. However once the document template has been downloaded entitlements for particular web add ins that are contained within or bound to the document template are used to determine a quality and level of functionality of the document template or a document derived from the document template within various applications.

In some embodiments a user is provided a coupon code voucher or some other mechanism by which the user can choose one or more free document templates from the virtual marketplace. The user may acquire such mechanism by purchasing a document template modifying application such as the document template modifying application by using a trial version of the document template modifying application or by way of a promotion.

The marketplace service server is configured to execute a server operating system and one or more application programs such as in the illustrated embodiment a marketplace server application web add in service applications a transaction management application an entitlement management application and one or more other applications not shown . The server operating system is a computer program for controlling the operation of the marketplace service server . The application programs are executable programs configured to execute on top of the server operating system to provide various functionalities described herein.

Although the applications and are illustrated as being hosted on the marketplace service server in some implementations these applications each reside on different servers not shown or are distributed over a plurality of servers. In some implementations some other combination of the applications and reside on the marketplace service server as well one or more different servers not shown . Accordingly the illustrated embodiment should not be interpreted as being limited to a server that necessarily includes all of the illustrated applications and .

The marketplace server application is a server application program configured to provide infrastructure for a virtual marketplaces service through which document templates as well as any corresponding web add ins can be downloaded and purchased. The marketplace server application in some embodiments provides account creation and management tools to facilitate the creation and management of user and developer accounts. The marketplace server application in some embodiments is configured to communicate with a user account data store for storing user accounts and associated user information such as usernames passwords or other authentication credentials e.g. names email addresses mailing addresses telephone numbers user preferences payment account information favorites and the like. The marketplace server application is also configured to communicate with a developer account data store for storing developer accounts and associated developer information which may include information similar to the user information described above and may additionally or alternatively include developer specific information such as active document templates deployed on the marketplace pending document templates income deposit account information and the like. Although the marketplace server application is illustrated as residing on the marketplace service server with the applications and it should be understood that in some implementations the marketplace service server includes only the marketplace server application or the marketplace server application and one or more of the applications and but not all of these applications.

The marketplace server application may facilitate at least in part a document template approval process through which a document template developer can submit a document template for inclusion in the virtual marketplace service and receive an indication of whether or not the document template is accepted. The marketplace server application in some embodiments facilitates the submission of document template descriptions preview images or videos and updates as well as the management of document templates. Further the marketplace server application may facilitate the aforementioned functionalities for documents derived from such document templates wherein the documents may contain web add ins which are contained within or bound to the document templates from which the documents were derived. In some embodiments some or all of the aforementioned functionality is included in a separate marketplace developer portal application not shown which may operate on the marketplace service server as well as one or more other servers also not shown .

In some embodiments the marketplace server application is a server application program that is configured to deliver web site content associated with a virtual marketplace service to the user device A A. In particular the marketplace server application may host a web site or a portion thereof may receive requests for web pages of the web site from the user device A A and may deliver the web pages to the user device A A in response thereto. In some embodiments the marketplace server application provides a web based version of the marketplace application so that the marketplace is accessible from any computer or device that has an Internet connection instead of the marketplace application having to be installed thereon.

The web add in service applications are configured to enable features of one or more document templates including one or more web add ins. In some embodiments this may be provided by one or more of the following 1 one or more HTML files 2 one or more JavaScript files and 3 one or more web services to access server side functionality and content that add value to a document or application. Although the web add in service applications are illustrated as residing on the marketplace service server with the applications and it should be understood that in some implementations the marketplace service server includes only the web add in service applications or the web add in service applications and one or more of the applications and but not all of these applications.

The transaction application is a server application program that is configured to manage transactions between the marketplace service server and other devices such as the user device A A. In some embodiments the transaction application is configured to process payments for marketplace content issue refunds where appropriate or provide pay outs to developers for income earned through the sale of the developers applications or document templates in the virtual marketplace service. In some embodiments the transaction application is configured to accept a proprietary currency that is useable within the virtual marketplace service and may or may not be useable elsewhere. In some embodiments the transaction application communicates with one or more credit card company computers bank computers or other financial institutions to process payments and perform other operations described above. Although the transaction application is illustrated as residing on the marketplace service server with the applications and it should be understood that in some implementations the marketplace service server includes only the transaction application or the transaction application and one or more of the applications and but not all of these applications.

The entitlement management application is a server application program that is configured to manage entitlements for users of the virtual marketplace service. In the illustrated embodiment the marketplace service server is configured to receive entitlement requests from the user device A A the user device B B and the user device N N and to provide entitlement responses in response thereto. In particular upon receipt of an entitlement request the entitlement management application can update an entitlement record for a user associated with the entitlement request to indicate the entitlement associated with the user for a particular document template. The entitlement management application in some embodiments handles restrictions and instructs the user device A A or other device to which an entitlement has been sent to prompt a user to purchase an entitlement upon expiration of a trial entitlement. The entitlement management application is also configured to perform other entitlement management operations described herein such as the revocation of expired entitlements or entitlements for which refunds have been requested. Although the entitlement management application is illustrated as residing on the marketplace service server with the applications and it should be understood that in some implementations the marketplace service server includes only the entitlement management application or the entitlement management application and one or more of the applications and but not all of these applications.

The marketplace service server is illustrated as being in communication with the user account data store the developer account data store an entitlement data store and a document template data store . The user account data store the developer account data store the entitlement data store and the document template data store may be stored in a memory not shown of the marketplace service server or may be accessible from an external source that may be local or remote to the marketplace service server . In some embodiments two or more of the data stores and are combined.

The entitlement data store is configured to store entitlements for document templates and web add ins such as the document templates stored in the document template data store . Entitlements may include free entitlements trial entitlements and paid entitlements. Free entitlements may be configured to provide full or reduced functionality. Trial entitlements allow a user to access a document template with one or more restrictions for using the document template or web add ins within the document template. These restrictions include but are not limited to time restrictions use restrictions functionality restrictions or any combinations thereof as discussed above. In some embodiments the user is provided an option to purchase the document template after expiration of the trial entitlement. Paid entitlements may include multiple tiers such as basic and premium. A premium paid entitlement may provide additional functionality above and beyond the functionality provided with a basic paid entitlement. In some embodiments the entitlement data store is configured to store entitlement terms.

The document template data store is configured to store document templates including document templates bound to web add ins. In some embodiments the document templates stored in the document template data store may include document templates created on the user device A A and uploaded to the marketplace service server for inclusion in the virtual marketplace service document templates uploaded from other sources such as a developer document templates downloaded from a website an email attachment a document a file sharing application or another computer or device or document templates transferred to the marketplace service server from an external memory device such as a flash memory drive CD DVD or other physical media. In various embodiments the document template data store may also store documents derived from document templates.

Although the marketplace server application the web add in service applications the transaction management application and the entitlement management application are illustrated as operating on the marketplace service server it is contemplated that these applications separately or together in some combination may operate on one or more other server computers not shown . In some embodiments two or more of the marketplace server application the web add in service applications the transaction management application and the entitlement management application are combined.

In the illustrated embodiment the user device A A is configured to download a document template from the marketplace service server and distribute the document template to the user device B B and the user device N N. In some embodiments each user device is configured to generate and send an entitlement request A to the marketplace service server and to receive an entitlement response B from the marketplace service server in response thereto. Further in various embodiments disclosed herein the system described below with respect to is used to authenticate entitlements for the document template.

It should be understood that some implementations of the operating environment include multiple networks multiple marketplace service servers multiple document data stores multiple document template data stores multiple web add in data stores multiple entitlement data stores multiple user account data stores multiple developer account data stores multiple entitlement data stores or multiple the document template data stores or any combinations thereof. It should also be understood that multiple operating systems multiple marketplace applications multiple web browser applications multiple document template development applications multiple distribution applications or multiple document template modifying applications or any combinations thereof may be used by the user device A A or one or more other user devices such as the user device B B the user device N N or other devices not shown . It should also be understood that multiple server operating systems multiple marketplace server applications multiple transaction applications or multiple entitlement management applications or any combinations thereof may be used by the marketplace service server or one or more other server computers not shown . Thus the illustrated embodiments should be understood as being illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way unless otherwise noted.

The third party service may be configured to directly control access to services offered by web add ins in a particular document template. In various embodiments the third party service may be a service provided using for example HTPP protocol FTP protocol or HTTPS protocol or may be a service provided using a custom non HTTP protocol such as a direct DCE RPC call.

The number of servers is not limited to those shown in this example. In a cloud computing arrangement 10s 100s or even 1000s of servers may be used. Further the servers and may be virtual i.e. servers implemented by software emulation. The servers and may include web servers cloud servers and other computing architectures that provide content to other servers or computing devices such as for example a purchaser device and a user device . In some embodiments the purchaser device may be the user device A A while the user device may be the user device B B or the user device N N among others. In some embodiments the servers and within the marketplace service may function as a server for storefront services and a server for licensing services respectively. Moreover in embodiments disclosed herein the term purchaser device may be used to denote any type of computing device operated by a particular purchaser wherein the purchaser may be an administrator for a particular document template license. Additionally the term user device may be used to denote any type of computing device operated by a particular user wherein the user may be a licensed user or an unlicensed user.

The marketplace service the client platform and the third party service may be coupled to each other through a network not shown wherein the network may include any type of network or combination of networks that provide access to the servers and . In some embodiments for example the network may be a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a wireless wide area network WWAN the Internet or any combinations thereof. In addition the marketplace service the client platform and the third party service or any combinations thereof may be colocated and physically coupled to each other.

The third party service may provide services to the document template modifying application running on the user device . In various embodiments the application code may run on top of the client platform and may call the third party service . Alternatively the application code may run on top of the document template modifying application on the client platform without leveraging the third party service at all. In both instances the third party service or the client platform or both may call the licensing service. Further in some embodiments the application may run on a separate device to the client platform such as a personal computer or a mobile device. In some embodiments the application may run on the purchaser device or the user device among others. For example the application may be any of the applications or being run on the user device A A. Additionally the application may communicate with the client platform as well as the third party service through specific services including both HTPP and non HTTP protocols.

The client platform may be hosted on a server such as the server or the same capabilities may be hosted on software running on the purchaser device or the user device . In various embodiments the purchaser may log in to the client platform by entering a username and password to authenticate against the client platform authentication service . The purchaser may then view a variety of document templates. The purchaser device may locate a desired document template through the storefront as indicated by an arrow . Once the purchaser has located the document template the purchaser may interact with the storefront in the browser of the purchaser device to begin the transaction. The purchaser device may then navigate from the storefront to the marketplace authentication service within the marketplace service as indicated by the arrow . At this point information is passed to the marketplace service about the document template the purchaser wishes to purchase such as an application ID the desired license e.g. full premium or trial and the client platform s identity such as a deployment identifier or ID and its location such as a Uniform Resource Identifier or URI for the location of the client platform which may be referred to as a callback URI . In one embodiment this information is passed as parameters in the URI from the storefront to the marketplace service . The purchaser may then be prompted to sign in to the marketplace service via the marketplace authentication service . In one embodiment the marketplace authentication service may use a different form of authentication than is used by the client platform authentication service . Moreover in various embodiments any of a number of authentication techniques may be used to authenticate the user such as for example Windows NT authentication developed by Microsoft Corporation Windows Live ID Web Authentication developed by Microsoft Corporation Kerberos Authentication or Form Based Authentication. Additionally in an embodiment the marketplace authentication service may operate within the server .

After log in the purchaser device may buy a paid license for the desired document template within an entitlement processing center as indicated by an arrow or may request a free trial license for the desired document template. If the license is a paid license it may have an associated level of entitlement such as a premium paid license or a basic paid license among others. In addition paid licenses and trial licenses may each have a specific expiration date. Moreover some free licenses may not have an expiration date but rather may allow a user unlimited access to specific services. After the entitlement has been processed by the entitlement processing center information relating to the purchase including information about the license for the document template and information about the purchaser of the license may be sent to the entitlement data store as indicated by an arrow . In some embodiments the information about the purchaser of the license may include for example the purchaser s marketplace identity and an identifier for the client platform such as a deployment identifier.

For instances in which the client platform is hosted on software running on the purchaser device or the user device the entitlement for the document template may be purchased by the purchaser directly through the marketplace service after the purchaser has logged in to the marketplace service . In such instances the user must sign in to an application on the user device such as document template modifying application using the marketplace authentication. Then the storage of the entitlement retrieval of the token and the renewal of the entitlement may be performed on the purchaser device or the user device rather than on a centralized server.

In addition for instances in which the client platform is hosted within a server after the payment for the license has been processed or the free trial license has been granted a token for the license may be sent back to the purchaser device through the storefront within the client platform as indicated by the arrow . In embodiments the token may be referred to as an entitlement token. The marketplace service may store the entitlement token in the entitlement data store or in a cloud based store called an entitlement store not shown or both. The token may include a key ID that may be used to create a digital digest. The token may also include information relating to the date of the purchaser s last log in to the marketplace service and an expiration date for the token such as for example thirty days after the token is issued. In some embodiments the digest that is created using the key ID may be a hash based message authentication code HMAC digest. In some embodiments the token may also contain encrypted information that can be decrypted by a particular service such as the third party service or a separate key provided to the developer of the token.

After the token has been generated within the marketplace service the purchaser device may be redirected to the storefront within the client platform by a callback URI having the embedded token. The callback URI may be passed to the client platform from a document template download repository service within the marketplace service . In some embodiments the token may be embedded within the URI. Once the purchaser s browser receives the token as well as a product code for the application the token and the product code may be read from the URI by the storefront and then persisted locally in the entitlement data store . Further in embodiments in which the client platform is hosted on software running on the purchaser device or the user device the token and the product code may be stored within the entitlement data store located on the purchaser device or the user device .

The purchaser device may be allowed to assign a purchased number of seats for the license to users wherein each license may have a different number of purchased seats. The purchaser device may assign a seat to the user device as well as to a number of additional user devices through the seat assignment user interface UI within the client platform as indicated by the arrow . The seat assignments or seat mapping may then be stored within the entitlement data store . Further in some embodiments the seats may be assigned based on the hardware signatures of particular user devices. Moreover in some embodiments a device other than the purchaser device may be used to assign the seats to the users.

In embodiments in which the client platform is hosted within a server the entitlement data store may include information relating to the purchaser who is operating the purchaser device wherein the purchaser may be designated as the administrator of the license. In an embodiment all of the assigned user devices within the client platform including the user device and the purchaser device may be authenticated using the same entitlement token. Moreover once a particular user device has been authenticated using the entitlement token validation may be performed to verify that the user that is signed in matches the user ID of the entitled user.

Further in some embodiments if the client platform is hosted within a server the user device may install and attempt to access the particular document template through a document template center which is running within the client platform . In other embodiments if the client platform is hosted on software running on the purchaser device or the user device the user may attempt to access the particular document template through the document template center which is running within the purchaser the user device or a browser. In various embodiments the document template center may be the place where the underlying code for the specific document template runs inside the client platform . In addition the user device may also attempt to access the document template directly through the third party service as indicated by an arrow . In some embodiments the user device may attempt to access the document template by entering a specific deployment ID relating to a specific entitlement token. At runtime the document template may call a token retrieval application programming interface API within the client platform . The token retrieval API may retrieve the entitlement token for the license for the particular document template that the user device is attempting to access. The token retrieval API may then pass the entitlement token to the third party service that powers the document template. Specifically the entitlement token may be passed to a licensing enforcing center within the third party service as indicated by the arrow .

The licensing enforcing center within the third party service may pass the received entitlement token to a token checker or license verification center within the marketplace service as indicated by the arrow . In some embodiments the token checker may be stored within the server . The token checker may verify the integrity of the entitlement token by checking the information relating to the token that is stored within the entitlement data store as indicated by the arrow . For example the token checker may check the integrity of the token using the HMAC digest. The token checker may check the expiry date of the entitlement token and the expiry date of the license and may audit the token in order to detect the fraudulent replaying of the same token. The token checker may also verify that the license is still valid. Furthermore in some embodiments the client platform itself may directly verify the validity of the entitlement token via the token checker .

Once the token checker has decided whether the entitlement token is valid or invalid the token checker may send a message of valid or invalid back to the licensing enforcing center within the third party service as indicated by the arrow . The third party service may then decide how to allow the user device to access the document template based on the received message. The decision of the third party service may be sent back to the document template center as indicated by the arrow . If the third party service decides that the entitlement token is invalid the user device interfacing with the document template center may receive an error message indicating that access to the document template has been denied or alternatively the document template may be allowed to run in a reduced functionality mode e.g. in a read only mode. Otherwise if the third party service decides that the entitlement token is valid the user device may be allowed to access the resources of the document template which may be powered by the third party service via a document template service . The document template service may be used to provide particular experience levels for document templates or documents derived from document templates to users depending on the conditions of particular entitlements. For example the document template service may provide unlicensed users with a document template containing watermarked images or low quality video.

In addition the document template service may provide specific levels of functionality for document templates depending on the conditions of particular entitlements. For example in some embodiments the entitlement token may specify what the user is allowed to see on their screen. Thus the document template service may adjust the viewing information that is provided to the user device accordingly. In other embodiments if the user is a licensed user the user may see low quality watermarked imagery within a document created from a document template on the screen of the user device . However the printing of the imagery within the document created from the document template may be in high resolution. Further in some embodiments the data in a document created from a document template may be static for unlicensed user while it may be updated for licensed users. Therefore the document template service may adjust the functionality and quality of each document template according to the specific conditions provided by each entitlement.

In some embodiments a licensing renewal center within the marketplace service may periodically communicate with a renewal job center within the client platform as indicated by the arrow . The licensing renewal center may be stored within the server . If the token checker determines that a particular license has expired the license may be renewed within the licensing renewal center . In some embodiments the token checker may verify that a user s subscription is still valid before renewing the particular license. Moreover the token checker may determine that a license is desired for any reason such as for example to include richer entitlement information or more secure encryption features. Thus the license may be renewed within the licensing renewal center at any time. Once a license has been renewed the information relating to the new license including a new entitlement token may be sent to the renewal job center . However if an expired license is not renewed the token checker may inform the third party service that the entitlement token for the license is invalid.

The document template modifying application may be included within a computing device such as the user device A A user device B B or user device N N described with respect to . In addition the user interface may be displayed to the user via a display device that resides within the computing device or that is communicably coupled to the computing device via a display interface.

The user interface may include a ribbon interface . The ribbon interface is a user interface including a set of toolbars that are placed on tabs in a tab bar . In the illustrated embodiment the tab bar of the ribbon interface includes tabs for FILE HOME INSERT TAB 4 and TAB 5. Also in the illustrated embodiment the INSERT TAB has been selected and various toolbars associated with various contents available for insertion are shown in a ribbon interface body . The illustrated toolbars in the ribbon interface body each include a representative icon for the type of feature provided by the toolbar.

The user interface may include a presentation canvas upon which a user can insert content for creating a presentation such as a MICROSOFT POWERPOINT presentation. The illustrated user interface also includes a document selection option the selection of which triggers a document drop down menu to be displayed in the user interface as discussed further with respect to .

In various embodiments once the document template has been selected a template details interface is displayed in the user interface . The illustrated template details interface includes a template name field a template source field a download size field a rating field a download option button and a cancel option button . The template details interface may also display a preview window in which a preview of a functional or rich experience of the document template is displayed. The preview window may also display a message indicating that the functional experience of the document template is only available to licensed users as shown in .

In various embodiments if the user of the computing device is an unlicensed user a license restricted document may be displayed to the user. Such a license restricted document may include a reduced functionality experience of the document template . In addition the quality of the document template may also be reduced. In some embodiments the user interface displays a message to the user within a message window . The message may notify the user of the limited capabilities of the license restricted document . For example the message within the message window may notify the user that a chart included in the document template is editable only by licensed users as shown in . In addition the message window may include a try button and a buy button . The try button and the buy button within the message window may be equivalent to the try button and the buy button within the ribbon interface body and may be displayed in the message window for the convenience of the user.

In various embodiments the user may purchase the document template by selecting one of the buy buttons or and upon prompting entering credit card information or other purchasing information. Once the user has purchased the document template the functional version of the document template may be initiated within the document template modifying application and the user may be provided with an editable experience of the chart as well as any additional functionalities provided by the document template . In some embodiments the particular license that is purchased by the user dictates the level of functionality and the quality of the document template . For example the user may purchase a standard license that provides access to a partially functional experience of the document template or the user may purchaser a premium license that provides access to a fully functional experience of the document template .

Further in some embodiments the user may request a trial version of the document template by selecting one of the try buttons and . The user may then receive a trial license for the document template and may be provided with the editable experience or at least partially editable experience of the chart . In some embodiments the trial license may provide the user with access to a partially functional or possibly even a fully functional experience of the document template for a limited amount of time or a limited number of uses.

The method begins at block with the obtainment of a license or entitlement for a document template. In various embodiments the license is obtained from a marketplace service via a network. In some embodiments the license is obtained from a third party service that may or may not be in communication with the marketplace service. Further in some embodiments the license for the document template includes one or more licenses for the web add ins that are bound to the document template.

In various embodiments the license may be obtained using the system for document template licensing authentication described with respect to . For example a request for the license for the document template may be sent from the computing device to the marketplace service in response to an input by a purchaser. A token may then be accepted from the marketplace service at the computing device via a client platform. The client platform may be configured to allow the purchaser to assign a seat to one or more users. According to this embodiment the purchaser and the one or more users that were assigned seats are considered licensed users. Further in some embodiments a free trial license for the document template may be obtained by the purchaser or any of the one or more users.

Further in various embodiments the license for the document template may be obtained directly from the marketplace service. In such cases a request for the license for the document template may be sent from the computing device to the marketplace service in response to an input by the user. The request may include for example marketplace log in information of the user and payment information such as the user s credit card information. The license for the document template may then be directly downloaded from the marketplace service to the computing device as discussed further with respect to block .

At block the document template may be downloaded to the computing device. For example the document template may be downloaded from the marketplace service or from any of a number of third party services. Moreover in some embodiments the document template may already be located on the computing device and thus may not be downloaded at block . Additionally any web add ins that are not contained within the document template but have manifests that are referenced by the document template may be downloaded to the computing device if they have not already been downloaded.

At block a functional experience of a document derived from the document template may be provided to the licensed user. This may be accomplished by loading a document that includes or is derived from the document template within a target application on the computing device. In addition each of the web add ins within the document template may be activated by for example passing the web add ins the relevant entitlement tokens. The functional experience of the document derived from the document template may provide a level of functionality that is in accordance with the conditions set forth in the license that was obtained by the licensed user. Thus the functional experience of the document derived from the document template may be a fully functional experience of the document or a partially functional experience of the document depending on the specific license. In addition the quality of the document derived from the document template may be adjusted according to the conditions set forth in the license.

At block a license restricted document may be shared with an unlicensed or unauthorized user. The license restricted document may provide a reduced functionality experience of the document derived from the document template to the unlicensed user. The license restricted document may be shared with the unlicensed user thereby providing them with reduced functionality access to the document. For example the license restricted document may include content with watermarks sample content content that has not been updated or low quality content or any combinations thereof. The license restricted document may also be a static mode of the document derived from the document template or a reduced functionality mode of the document derived from the document template. Further the reduced functionality licensing of the document template may force use restrictions time restrictions or functionality restrictions or any combinations thereof.

In various embodiments when a document derived from a document template containing web add ins is saved the document file itself contains the lowest fidelity version of the content or resources. However the web add ins that are bound to or located within the document template retain the high fidelity resources online This allows such high fidelity resources to be provided to licensed users in accordance with particular licenses for the document templates and or web add ins.

In various embodiments sharing the license restricted document with the unlicensed user includes sending via a network the document to a second computing device being used by the unlicensed user. The unlicensed user may then be allowed to use the license restricted document for a limited amount of time or for a limited number of uses. For example the license restricted document may be provided to the unlicensed user for a configurable level of time or to a configurable quality of service

Further in some embodiments sharing the license restricted document with the unlicensed user includes providing the unlicensed user with a document containing fresh data but preventing automatic updating of the fresh data within the document. In addition the unauthorized user may be provided with a document including customizations made to web add in bound portions of the document but may be prevented from making any additional customizations to the web add in bound portions of the document. The unlicensed user may also be provided with a document including watermarked images. The unauthorized user may be allowed to add comments into the document rearrange a layout of the document or enter text into the document. Further in some embodiments the unlicensed user is provided with options to buy the document template to obtain a paid license or try the document template using a trial license. Then depending on the type of license obtained by the unlicensed user a quality and functionality of the document derived from the document template may be adjusted.

At block it may be determined whether the user has an entitlement for the document template. The entitlement for the document template may also include one or more entitlements for the specific web add ins that are contained within the document template. In some embodiments such a determination may be made using the system for document template licensing authentication described with respect to . For example once the token is accepted from the marketplace service at the computing device the client platform may send the token to a third party service when the user attempts to access the document template. The marketplace service may accept the token from the third party service verify the validity of the token and send a message verifying the validity of the token to the third party service. If the validity of the token is verified the user may be provided with entitlement to services or higher fidelity resources for the document template such as the functional experience of the document template discussed below with respect to block . If the validity of the token is denied the user may be restricted to an experience with the document template including limited levels of service as discussed below with respect to block .

At block the user may be provided with access to a functional or rich experience of the document derived from the document template. According to this embodiment the user may be referred to as a licensed user. The experience may provide a level of functionality and a level of quality that are in accordance with the conditions set forth in the license that was obtained by the licensed user as discussed above with respect to . In addition the licensed user may be allowed to share a license restricted document with unlicensed users.

At block the user may be provided with a restricted experience of the document derived from the document template. According to this embodiment the user may be referred to as an unlicensed user. In some embodiments this may be accomplished through an input by a licensed user which may cause the license restricted document to be sent to the unlicensed user via email for example. Further in some embodiments the unlicensed user may also be prompted to purchase the entitlement for the document template or for the web add ins present in a document that was once derived from the document template.

Further it is to be noted that the document templates utilized according to the embodiments disclosed herein may be created by template providers in deliberately different ways depending on the desired application. For example if the value of a document template is in the freshness of the data a textual chunk of the document template may be programmatically bound i.e. connected to a web add in. In this case a reference to a web add in located within the marketplace service is inserted into the document template and the metadata within that reference connects the data to the web add in. For example if a cell in a spreadsheet is used to provide the dollar to euro exchange rate then the template provider may provide a reference to a currency exchange conversion web add in located within the marketplace service and may tie the value of the cell to the web add in. Therefore in the case of an unlicensed user the cell may have a snapshot value of the dollar to euro exchange rate that has not been updated.

In addition if the value of a document template is in the easy insertion of a customized feed of data the content may be programmatically bound i.e. connected to a web add in. In this case a reference to a web add in within the marketplace service is inserted into the document template and the metadata within that reference connects the data to the web add in. For example rather than include a static list of tasks in a spreadsheet a specific column could include a sample list of tasks. The column could be connected to a personalized task list web add in and the value of the column could be tied to the web add in. Additional metadata can be provided and saved as metadata within the document template to customize the list. In some embodiments this might allow for the retrieval of a personalized task list associated with a certain user or it could enable the retrieval of a particular premium list. However in the case of an unlicensed user the column may contain an example value of the task list not the customized task list.

Further if the value of a document is in the quality of the imagery video or sound of the document template the DOCX document may not include the original media file e.g. the JPG file but instead may include a reference to a web add in with particular dimensions. In this case a reference to a web add in within the marketplace service is inserted into the document template and metadata is injected that determines which piece of media should be rendered. For example rather than including a high quality image of an animal the template may include a reference to the web add in a piece of metadata that the web add in used as input and metadata describing the visual presentation of the web add in s output. In addition in the case of an unlicensed user the document template when saved may contain a less valuable copy of the same animal image. For example the image may be watermarked or have low resolution. It is to be understood that similar techniques can be applied to video or sound media among others.

In various embodiments the document template utilized according to embodiments disclosed herein is a graphical document template. For example the document template may include web add in connected images containing a rich set of text fonts font effects colors imagery and smart art among others. In this case when a licensed user opens the document template the web add in transforms this image into an editable document fragment. This document fragment supports pasting but blocks copying. In addition this fragment may or may not contain further web add ins within it. When the user is done editing the document fragment the document fragment is assigned a unique identifier and is saved online in a database. Further upon saving the file itself the application also transforms this document fragment back into a new image containing a high resolution image of the document fragment. This allows template providers to create valuable graphical sections within document templates while allowing only licensed users to be able to fully edit those sections. Recipients of such document templates who have not paid i.e. unlicensed users may still be allowed to add comments print or make edits outside of these sections and the licensed user may be able to edit the sections at any time.

In some embodiments the user device A A the user device B the user device N and the marketplace service server are configured in accordance with the computer architecture . As such software components of the user device A A and the marketplace service server are shown together within the computer architecture for ease of illustration. It should be understood however that these software components may be and are likely to be implemented in separate computers such as in a client server configuration or as standalone software components executing on one or both of the user device A A and the marketplace service server . The user device B and the user device N may also include similar software components. It also should be understood that although the data stores and described above with reference to are not illustrated one or more of the data stores and may also be included in the computer architecture or the computer architecture may be in communication with one or more of the data stores and .

The computer architecture may include a central processing unit CPU a system memory including a random access memory RAM and a read only memory ROM and a system bus that couples the memory to the CPU . A basic input output system containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within the computer architecture such as during startup is stored in the ROM . The computer architecture further includes a mass storage device for storing the operating system and the server operating system and one or more application programs including but not limited to the marketplace application the web browser application the document template development application the distribution application the document template modifying application the marketplace server application the web add in service applications the transaction application and the entitlement management application .

The mass storage device is connected to the CPU through a mass storage controller not shown connected to the bus . The mass storage device and its associated computer readable media provide non volatile storage for the computer architecture . Although the description of computer readable media contained herein refers to a mass storage device such as a hard disk or CD ROM drive it should be appreciated by those skilled in the art that computer readable media can be any available computer storage media or communication media that can be accessed by the computer architecture .

Communication media includes computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics changed or set in a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media includes wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media. Combinations of the any of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

By way of example and not limitation computer storage media may include volatile and non volatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. For example computer media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EPROM EEPROM flash memory or other solid state memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD HD DVD BLU RAY or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the computer architecture .

According to various embodiments the computer architecture may operate in a networked environment using logical connections to remote computers through the network or another network not shown . The computer architecture may connect to the network through a network interface unit connected to the bus . It should be appreciated that the network interface unit also may be utilized to connect to other types of networks and remote computer systems. The computer architecture also may include an input output controller for receiving and processing input from a number of other devices including a keyboard mouse or electronic stylus not shown . Similarly the input output controller may provide output to a display screen a printer or other type of output device not shown .

It should be appreciated that the software components described herein may when loaded into the CPU and executed transform the CPU and the overall computer architecture from a general purpose computing system into a special purpose computing system customized to facilitate the functionality presented herein. The CPU may be constructed from any number of transistors or other discrete circuit elements which may individually or collectively assume any number of states. More specifically the CPU may operate as a finite state machine in response to executable instructions contained within the software modules disclosed herein. These computer executable instructions may transform the CPU by specifying how the CPU transitions between states thereby transforming the transistors or other discrete hardware elements constituting the CPU .

Further it should be appreciated that many types of physical transformations take place in the computer architecture in order to store and execute the software components presented herein. It also should be appreciated that the computer architecture may include other types of computing devices including hand held computers embedded computer systems personal digital assistants and other types of computing devices known to those skilled in the art. It is also contemplated that the computer architecture may not include all of the components shown in may include other components that are not explicitly shown in or may utilize an architecture completely different than that shown in .

The various software components discussed herein may be stored on the tangible non transitory computer readable medium as indicated in . For example a document template licensing module may be configured to enable a user to purchase or otherwise obtain a license for a particular document template. In various embodiments the license may be acquired according to the document template licensing authentication procedure discussed with respect to . Further a document template license enforcement module may be configured to determine whether a user is a licensed or an unlicensed user of the document template and to adjust the quality and functionality of the document template or a document derived from the document template accordingly.

It is to be noted that the block diagram of is not intended to indicate that the tangible non transitory computer readable medium always includes both of the software components and . In addition the tangible non transitory computer readable medium may include additional software components not shown in .

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

