---

title: Substituted quinazolines as serine/threonine kinase inhibitors
abstract: 

url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09187462&OS=09187462&RS=09187462
owner: Genentech, Inc.
number: 09187462
owner_city: South San Francisco
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120803
---
This is a national stage application under 35 U.S.C. 371 of PCT US2012 049551 filed on Aug. 3 2012 which claims priority to U.S. provisional application No. 61 515 165 filed on Aug. 4 2011. The entire content of the foregoing are herby incorporated herein by reference.

This application claims the benefit of priority to U.S. Ser. No. 61 515 165 filed Aug. 4 2011 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The present invention relates to compounds which inhibit serine threonine kinases and which are useful for treating hyperproliferative and neoplastic diseases by inhibiting signal transduction pathways which commonly are overactive or overexpressed in cancerous tissue. The present compounds are selective inhibitors of ERK extracellular signal regulated kinase . The present invention further relates to methods for treating cancer or hyperproliferative diseases with compounds within the scope of the present invention.

The processes involved in tumor growth progression and metastasis are mediated by signaling pathways that are activated in cancer cells. The ERK pathway plays a central role in regulating mammalian cell growth by relaying extracellular signals from ligand bound cell surface receptor tyrosine kinase RTK s such as ErbB family PDGF FGF and VEGF receptor tyrosine kinase. Activation of an RTK induces a cascade of phosphorylation events that begins with activation of Ras. Activation of Ras leads to the recruitment and activation of Raf a serine threonine kinase. Activated Raf then phosphorylates and activates MEK1 2 which then phosphorylates and activates ERK1 2. When activated ERK1 2 phosphorylates several downstream targets involved in a multitude of cellular events including cytoskeletal changes and transcriptional activation. The ERK MAPK pathway is one of the most important for cell proliferation and it is believed that the ERK MAPK pathway is frequently activated in many tumors. Ras genes which are upstream of ERK1 2 are mutated in several cancers including colorectal melanoma breast and pancreatic tumors. The high Ras activity is accompanied by elevated ERK activity in many human tumors. In addition mutations of BRAF a serine threonine kinase of the Raf family are associated with increased kinase activity. Mutations in BRAF have been identified in melanomas 60 thyroid cancers greater than 40 and colorectal cancers. These observations indicate that the ERK1 2 signaling pathway is an attractive pathway for anticancer therapies in a broad spectrum of human tumors. M. Holum and J. Pouyssegur 2003 5 219 .

The ERK pathway has also been cited as a promising therapeutic target for the treatment of pain and inflammation Ma Weiya and Remi Quirion. The ERK MAPK pathway as a target for the treatment of neuropathic pain. 9 4 2005 pp. 699 713 and Sommer Claudia and Frank Birklein. Resolvins and inflammatory pain. 1000 3 19 2011 .

Therefore small molecular inhibitors of ERK activity i.e. ERK1 and or ERK2 activity would be useful for treating a broad spectrum of cancers such as for example melanoma pancreatic cancer thyroid cancer colorectal cancer lung cancer breast cancer and ovarian cancer. Such a contribution is provided by this invention.

There is a continuing need for new and novel therapeutic agents which can be used for cancer and hyperproliferative conditions. The Raf MEK ERK pathway is an important signaling pathway which is frequently overexpressed and or overactive in many cancerous tissues. Design and development of new pharmaceutical compounds is essential. In one aspect of the present invention there is provided a compound according to formula I wherein 

In another aspect of the present invention there is provided a compound according to formula I wherein Ris heterocyclyl or heteroaryl optionally substituted with one to three substituents independently selected from the group consisting of Calkyl Chydroxyalkyl halogen hydroxyl and oxo Ar is phenyl optionally substituted by 1 to 5 groups independently selected from Calkyl Chaloalkyl Calkoxy Ccycloalkyl halogen Chaloalkoxy Calkylthio Cacylamino cyano and nitro Ris selected from the group consisting of a Calkyl b Chaloalkyl c heterocyclyl or heterocyclyl Calkyl wherein said heterocycle or heterocyclyl Calkyl is selected from the group consisting of tetrahydropyranyl tetrahydrofuranyl oxetanyl piperidinyl N Calkyl piperidinyl and N Calkyl 2 oxo pyrrolidinyl and wherein said heterocycle or heterocyclyl Calkyl is optionally substituted by 1 to 3 groups independently selected from Calkyl Chaloalkyl Cacyloxy Calkyl halogen hydroxyl phenyl Chydroxyalkyl and oxo d Ccycloalkyl or Ccycloalkyl Calkyl wherein said cycloalkyl or Ccycloalkyl Calkyl are optionally substituted by hydroxyl or halo and e Cheteroalkyl Ris hydrogen or halogen and stereoisomers tautomers or pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof.

The present invention also relates to a method for treating a hyperproliferative disorder by administering a therapeutically effective quantity of a compound according to formula I to a patient in need thereof. The compound can be administered alone or co administered with at least one other anti hyperproliferative or chemotherapeutic compound.

The present invention also relates to a method for inhibiting ERK protein kinase activity in a cell comprising treating a cell with a compound according to formula I in an amount effective to attenuate or eliminate ERK kinase activity.

The present invention also relates to a pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound according to formula I and at least one pharmaceutically acceptable carrier diluent or excipient.

The phrase a or an entity as used herein refers to one or more of that entity for example a compound refers to one or more compounds or at least one compound. As such the terms a or an one or more and at least one can be used interchangeably herein.

The phrase as defined above and as defined herein above refers to the broadest definition for each group as provided in the Summary of the Invention or the broadest claim. In all other embodiments provided below substituents which can be present in each embodiment and which are not explicitly defined retain the broadest definition provided in the Summary of the Invention.

As used in this specification whether in a transitional phrase or in the body of the claim the terms comprise s and comprising are to be interpreted as having an open ended meaning. That is the terms are to be interpreted synonymously with the phrases having at least or including at least . When used in the context of a process the term comprising means that the process includes at least the recited steps but may include additional steps. When used in the context of a compound or composition the term comprising means that the compound or composition includes at least the recited features or components but may also include additional features or components.

The term independently is used herein to indicate that a variable is applied in any one instance without regard to the presence or absence of a variable having that same or a different definition within the same compound. Thus in a compound in which R appears twice and is defined as independently carbon or nitrogen both R s can be carbon both R s can be nitrogen or one R can be carbon and the other nitrogen.

When any variable e.g. R R Ar Xor Het occurs more than one time in any moiety or formula depicting and describing compounds employed or claimed in the present invention its definition on each occurrence is independent of its definition at every other occurrence. Also combinations of substituents and or variables are permissible only if such compounds result in stable compounds.

The symbols at the end of a bond or drawn through a bond each refer to the point of attachment of a functional group or other chemical moiety to the rest of the molecule of which it is a part. Thus for example 

A bond drawn into ring system as opposed to connected at a distinct vertex indicates that the bond may be attached to any of the suitable ring atoms.

The term optional or optionally as used herein means that a subsequently described event or circumstance may but need not occur and that the description includes instances where the event or circumstance occurs and instances in which it does not. For example optionally substituted means that the optionally substituted moiety may incorporate a hydrogen or a substituent.

The term about is used herein to mean approximately in the region of roughly or around. When the term about is used in conjunction with a numerical range it modifies that range by extending the boundaries above and below the numerical values set forth. In general the term about is used herein to modify a numerical value above and below the stated value by a variance of 20 .

As used herein the recitation of a numerical range for a variable is intended to convey that the invention may be practiced with the variable equal to any of the values within that range. Thus for a variable which is inherently discrete the variable can be equal to any integer value of the numerical range including the end points of the range. Similarly for a variable which is inherently continuous the variable can be equal to any real value of the numerical range including the end points of the range. As an example a variable which is described as having values between 0 and 2 can be 0 1 or 2 for variables which are inherently discrete and can be 0.0 0.1 0.01 0.001 or any other real value for variables which are inherently continuous.

Compounds of formula I exhibit tautomerism. Tautomeric compounds can exist as two or more interconvertable species. Prototropic tautomers result from the migration of a covalently bonded hydrogen atom between two atoms. Tautomers generally exist in equilibrium and attempts to isolate an individual tautomers usually produce a mixture whose chemical and physical properties are consistent with a mixture of compounds. The position of the equilibrium is dependent on chemical features within the molecule. For example in many aliphatic aldehydes and ketones such as acetaldehyde the keto form predominates while in phenols the enol form predominates. Common prototropic tautomers include keto enol C O CH C OH CH amide imidic acid C O NH C OH N and amidine C NR NH C NHR N tautomers. The latter two are particularly common in heteroaryl and heterocyclic rings and the present invention encompasses all tautomeric forms of the compounds.

It will be appreciated by the skilled artisan that some of the compounds of formula I may contain one or more chiral centers and therefore exist in two or more stereoisomeric forms. The racemates of these isomers the individual isomers and mixtures enriched in one enantiomer as well as diastereomers when there are two chiral centers and mixtures partially enriched with specific diastereomers are within the scope of the present invention. The present invention includes all the individual stereoisomers e.g. enantiomers racemic mixtures or partially resolved mixtures of the compounds of formula I and where appropriate the individual tautomeric forms thereof.

The compounds of formula I may contain a basic center and suitable acid addition salts are formed from acids which form non toxic salts. Examples of salts of inorganic acids include the hydrochloride hydrobromide hydroiodide chloride bromide iodide sulfate bisulfate nitrate phosphate and hydrogen phosphate. Examples of salts of organic acids include acetate fumarate pamoate aspartate besylate carbonate bicarbonate camsylate D and L lactate D and L tartrate esylate mesylate malonate orotate gluceptate methylsulfate stearate glucuronate 2 napsylate tosylate hibenzate nicotinate isethionate malate maleate citrate gluconate succinate saccharate benzoate esylate and pamoate salts. For a review on suitable salts see Berge et al . 1977 66 1 19 and G. S. Paulekuhn et al. . 2007 50 6665.

Technical and scientific terms used herein have the meaning commonly understood by one of skill in the art to which the present invention pertains unless otherwise defined. Reference is made herein to various methodologies and materials known to those of skill in the art. A standard reference work setting forth the general principles of pharmacology include Goodman and Gilman s 10th Ed. McGraw Hill Companies Inc. New York 2001 . The starting materials and reagents used in preparing these compounds generally are either available from commercial suppliers such as Aldrich Chemical Co. or are prepared by methods known to those skilled in the art following procedures set forth in references. Materials reagents and the like to which reference are made in the following description and examples are obtainable from commercial sources unless otherwise noted. General synthetic procedures have been described in treatises such as Wiley Sons New York Volumes 1 21 R. C. LaRock 2nd edition Wiley VCH New York 1999 B. Trost and I. Fleming Eds. vol. 1 9 Pergamon Oxford 1991 A. R. Katritzky and C. W. Rees Eds Pergamon Oxford 1984 vol. 1 9 A. R. Katritzky and C. W. Rees Eds Pergamon Oxford 1996 vol. 1 11 and Wiley Sons New York 1991 Volumes 1 40 and will be familiar to those skilled in the art.

The definitions described herein may be appended to form chemically relevant combinations such as heteroalkylaryl haloalkylheteroaryl arylalkylheterocyclyl alkylcarbonyl alkoxyalkyl and the like. When the term alkyl is used as a suffix following another term as in phenylalkyl or hydroxyalkyl this is intended to refer to an alkyl group as defined above being substituted with at least one substituent selected from the other specifically named group. Thus for example phenylalkyl refers to an alkyl group having at least one phenyl substituent and thus includes benzyl and phenylethyl. An alkylaminoalkyl is an alkyl group having at least one alkylamino substituent. Hydroxyalkyl includes 2 hydroxyethyl 2 hydroxypropyl 1 hydroxymethyl 2 methylpropyl 2 hydroxybutyl 2 3 dihydroxybutyl 2 hydroxymethyl 3 hydroxypropyl and so forth. Accordingly as used herein the term hydroxyalkyl is used to define a subset of heteroalkyl groups defined below. The term ar alkyl refers to either an unsubstituted alkyl or an aralkyl group. The term hetero aryl or het aryl refers to a moiety that is either an aryl or a heteroaryl group.

The term alkyl as used herein alone or in combination with other groups denotes an unbranched or branched chain saturated monovalent hydrocarbon residue containing 1 to 10 carbon atoms. The term lower alkyl denotes a straight or branched chain hydrocarbon residue containing 1 to 6 carbon atoms. Calkyl as used herein refers to an alkyl composed of 1 to 6 carbons. Examples of alkyl groups include but are not limited to methyl ethyl propyl i propyl n butyl i butyl t butyl neopentyl hexyl and octyl.

The term haloalkyl as used herein denotes an unbranched or branched chain alkyl group as defined above wherein 1 2 3 or more hydrogen atoms are substituted by a halogen. Examples are 1 fluoromethyl 1 chloromethyl 1 bromomethyl 1 iodomethyl difluoromethyl trifluoromethyl trichloromethyl 1 fluoroethyl 1 chloroethyl 2 fluoroethyl 2 chloroethyl 2 bromoethyl 2 2 dichloroethyl 3 bromopropyl or 2 2 2 trifluoroethyl.

The term Cfluoroalkyl as used herein denotes an unbranched or branched chain alkyl group as defined above wherein 1 2 3 or more hydrogen atoms are substituted by a fluorine.

The term haloalkoxy as used herein refers to a group OR wherein R is haloalkyl as defined herein. The term haloalkylthio as used herein refers to a group SR wherein R is haloalkyl as defined herein.

The term alkoxycarbonyl as used herein denotes a group of formula C O OR wherein R is alkyl as defined herein.

The term Cacyloxy Calkyl as used herein denotes a group of formula CH OC O CH H. The term Cacyloxy as used herein denotes the radical OC O R wherein the radical contains 1 to 4 carbon atoms and Cis formyl.

The term heterocyclyl or heterocycle as used herein denotes a monovalent saturated cyclic radical consisting of one or more rings preferably one to two rings of three to eight atoms per ring incorporating one or more ring heteroatoms chosen from N O or S O with the remaining ring atoms being carbon. The heterocyclyl moiety can optionally be independently substituted with one or more preferably one or two substituents selected from hydroxy oxo cyano lower alkyl lower alkoxy lower haloalkoxy Calkylthio halo Chaloalkyl Chydroxyalkyl nitro Calkoxycarbonyl Cacyloxy Calkyl Cacyl amino Calkylamino Calkylsulfonyl arylsulfonyl Calkylaminosulfonyl arylaminosulfonyl Calkylsulfonylamido arylsulfonylamido Calkylaminocarbonyl arylaminocarbonyl Calkylcarbonylamino or arylcarbonylamino unless otherwise indicated. Examples of heterocyclic radicals include but are not limited to azetidinyl pyrrolidinyl hexahydroazepinyl oxetanyl tetrahydrofuranyl tetrahydrothiophenyl oxazolidinyl thiazolidinyl isoxazolidinyl morpholinyl piperazinyl piperidinyl tetrahydropyranyl thiomorpholinyl quinuclidinyl and imidazolinyl unless specifically limited. Heterocycles include a 3 to 7 membered ring containing 1 to 3 heteroatoms selected from N O or S.

The term heteroaryl or heteroaromatic as used herein means a monocyclic or bicyclic radical of 5 to 12 ring atoms having at least one aromatic ring containing five to eight atoms per ring incorporating one or more N O or S heteroatoms the remaining ring atoms being carbon with the understanding that the attachment point of the heteroaryl radical will be on an aromatic ring. As well known to those skilled in the art heteroaryl rings have less aromatic character than their all carbon counter parts. Thus for the purposes of the invention a heteroaryl group need only have some degree of aromatic character. Examples of heteroaryl moieties include monocyclic aromatic heterocycles having 5 to 6 ring atoms and 1 to 4 heteroatoms selected from N O or S include unless specifically limited pyridinyl pyrimidinyl pyrazinyl pyrrolyl pyrazolyl imidazolyl oxazolyl isoxazolyl thiazolyl isothiazolyl tetrazole triazolinyl thiadiazolyl and oxadiaxolinyl which can optionally be substituted with one or more preferably one or two substituents selected from hydroxy cyano Calkyl aryl Caralkyl Calkoxy thio lower haloalkoxy Calkylthio halo Chaloalkyl Calkylsulfinyl Calkylsulfonyl halogen amino Calkylamino Cdialkylamino amino Calkyl Calkylaminoalkyl Cdialkylamino Calkyl nitro Calkoxycarbonyl Cacyloxy Calkyl carbamoyl Calkylcarbamoyl Cdialkylcarbamoyl arylcarbamoyl Calkylcarbonylamino and arylcarbonylamino. Examples of bicyclic moieties include but are not limited to quinolinyl isoquinolinyl benzofuryl benzothiophenyl benzoxazole benzisoxazole benzothiazole and benzisothiazole. Bicyclic moieties can be optionally substituted on either ring.

The terms hydroxyalkyl and alkoxyalkyl as used herein denotes alkyl radical as herein defined wherein one to three hydrogen atoms on different carbon atoms is are replaced by hydroxyl or alkoxy groups respectively. A Calkoxy Calkyl moiety refers to a Calkyl substituent in which 1 to 3 hydrogen atoms are replaced by a Calkoxy and the point of attachment of the alkoxy is the oxygen atom.

The term alkylthio or alkylsulfanyl means an S alkyl group wherein alkyl is as herein defined such as methylthio ethylthio n propylthio i propylthio n butylthio hexylthio including their isomers. Lower alkylthio as used herein denotes an alkylthio group with a lower alkyl group as previously defined. Calkylthio as used herein refers to an S alkyl wherein alkyl is C. Arylthio means an S aryl group wherein aryl is as defined herein. Phenylthio is an arylthio moiety wherein aryl is phenyl.

The term cycloalkyl as used herein denotes a saturated carbocyclic ring containing 3 to 8 carbon atoms i.e. cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclopentyl cyclohexyl cycloheptyl or cyclooctyl. Ccycloalkyl as used herein refers to a cycloalkyl composed of 3 to 7 carbons in the carbocyclic ring.

The term acylamino as used herein denotes a group of formula NHC O R wherein R is hydrogen or lower alkyl as defined herein. Cacylamino refers to an acylamino group wherein the C O R moiety contains 1 to 6 carbon atoms. The Cacyl or alkanoyl group is a formyl group wherein R H and a Cacyl group refers to hexanoyl when the alkyl chain is unbranched.

The term heteroalkyl as used herein means an alkyl radical as defined herein wherein one or two hydrogen atoms have been replaced with a substituent independently selected from the group consisting of ORand NRR with the understanding that the point of attachment of the heteroalkyl radical is through a carbon atom. Ris hydrogen or alkyl and Rand Rare independently of each other hydrogen acyl alkyl or Rand Rtogether with the nitrogen to which they are attached form a cyclic amine. Hydroxyalkyl alkoxyalkyl aminoalkyl alkylaminoalkyl and dialkylaminoalkyl moieties are subgenera encompassed by the term heteroalkyl . Representative examples include but are not limited to 2 hydroxyethyl 3 hydroxypropyl 2 hydroxy 1 hydroxymethylethyl 2 3 dihydroxypropyl 1 hydroxymethylethyl 3 hydroxybutyl 2 3 dihydroxybutyl 2 hydroxy 1 methylpropyl 2 aminoethyl 3 methylaminopropyl and the like.

The term oxo as used herein refers to O i.e. a doubly bonded oxygen affording a carbonyl group when attached to a carbon atom wherein it is further understood that this is equivalent to two hydroxyl groups attached to the same carbon are equivalent.

The terms treat and treatment refer to therapeutic treatment wherein the object is to slow down lessen an undesired physiological change or disorder such as the spread of cancer. For purposes of this invention beneficial or desired clinical results include but are not limited to alleviation of symptoms limiting the extent of disease stabilized i.e. not worsening state of disease delay or slowing of disease progression amelioration or palliation of the disease state and remission whether partial or total whether detectable or undetectable. Treatment can also mean prolonging survival as compared to expected survival if not receiving treatment.

The phrase therapeutically effective amount means an amount of a compound of the present invention that i treats the particular disease condition or disorder ii attenuates ameliorates or eliminates one or more symptoms of the particular disease condition or disorder or iii prevents or delays the onset of one or more symptoms of the particular disease condition or disorder described herein. In the case of cancer the therapeutically effective amount of the drug may reduce the number of cancer cells reduce the tumor size inhibit i.e. slow to some extent and preferably stop cancer cell infiltration into peripheral organs inhibit i.e. slow to some extent and preferably stop tumor metastasis inhibit to some extent tumor growth and or relieve to some extent one or more of the symptoms associated with the cancer. To the extent the drug may prevent growth and or kill existing cancer cells it may be cytostatic and or cytotoxic. For cancer therapy efficacy can be measured for example by assessing the time to disease progression TTP and or determining the response rate RR .

The terms cancer and cancerous refer to or describe the physiological condition in mammals that is typically characterized by unregulated cell growth. A tumor comprises one or more cancerous cells. Examples of cancer include but are not limited to carcinoma lymphoma blastoma sarcoma and leukemia or lymphoid malignancies. More particular examples of such cancers include squamous cell cancer e.g. epithelial squamous cell cancer lung cancer including small cell lung cancer non small cell lung cancer NSCLC adenocarcinoma of the lung and squamous carcinoma of the lung cancer of the peritoneum hepatocellular cancer gastric or stomach cancer including gastrointestinal cancer pancreatic cancer glioblastoma cervical cancer ovarian cancer liver cancer bladder cancer hepatoma breast cancer colon cancer rectal cancer colorectal cancer endometrial or uterine carcinoma salivary gland carcinoma kidney or renal cancer prostate cancer vulval cancer thyroid cancer hepatic carcinoma anal carcinoma penile carcinoma as well as head and neck cancer.

A chemotherapeutic agent is a chemical compound useful in the treatment of cancer. Examples of chemotherapeutic agents include erlotinib TARCEVA Genentech OSI Pharm. bortezomib VELCADE Millennium Pharm. fulvestrant FASLODEX AstraZeneca sunitib SUTENT Pfizer Sugen letrozole FEMARA Novartis imatinib mesylate GLEEVEC Novartis finasunate VATALANIB Novartis oxaliplatin ELOXATIN Sanofi 5 FU 5 fluorouracil leucovorin Rapamycin Sirolimus RAPAMUNE Wyeth Lapatinib TYKERB GSK572016 Glaxo Smith Kline Lonafamib SCH 66336 sorafenib NEXAVAR Bayer Labs gefitinib IRESSA AstraZeneca AG1478 alkylating agents such as thiotepa and CYTOXAN cyclosphosphamide alkyl sulfonates such as busulfan improsulfan and piposulfan aziridines such as benzodopa carboquone meturedopa and uredopa ethylenimines and methylamelamines including altretamine triethylenemelamine triethylenephosphoramide triethylenethiophosphoramide and trimethylomelamine acetogenins especially bullatacin and bullatacinone a camptothecin including the synthetic analog topotecan bryostatin callystatin CC 1065 including its adozelesin carzelesin and bizelesin synthetic analogs cryptophycins particularly cryptophycin 1 and cryptophycin 8 dolastatin duocarmycin including the synthetic analogs KW 2189 and CB1 TM1 eleutherobin pancratistatin a sarcodictyin spongistatin nitrogen mustards such as chlorambucil chlomaphazine chlorophosphamide estramustine ifosfamide mechlorethamine mechlorethamine oxide hydrochloride melphalan novembichin phenesterine prednimustine trofosfamide uracil mustard nitrosoureas such as carmustine chlorozotocin fotemustine lomustine nimustine and ranimnustine antibiotics such as the enediyne antibiotics e.g. calicheamicin especially calicheamicin 1I and calicheamicin 1I . 1994 33 183 186 dynemicin including dynemicin A bisphosphonates such as clodronate an esperamicin as well as neocarzinostatin chromophore and related chromoprotein enediyne antibiotic chromophores aclacinomysins actinomycin authramycin azaserine bleomycins cactinomycin carabicin caminomycin carzinophilin chromomycinis dactinomycin daunorubicin detorubicin 6 diazo 5 oxo L norleucine ADRIAMYCIN doxorubicin morpholino doxorubicin cyanomorpholino doxorubicin 2 pyrrolino doxorubicin and deoxydoxorubicin epirubicin esorubicin idarubicin marcellomycin mitomycins such as mitomycin C mycophenolic acid nogalamycin olivomycins peplomycin porfiromycin puromycin quelamycin rodorubicin streptonigrin streptozocin tubercidin ubenimex zinostatin zorubicin anti metabolites such as methotrexate and 5 fluorouracil 5 FU folic acid analogs such as denopterin methotrexate pteropterin trimetrexate purine analogs such as fludarabine 6 mercaptopurine thiamiprine thioguanine pyrimidine analogs such as ancitabine azacitidine 6 azauridine carmofur cytarabine dideoxyuridine doxifluridine enocitabine floxuridine androgens such as calusterone dromostanolone propionate epitiostanol mepitiostane testolactone anti adrenals such as aminoglutethimide mitotane trilostane folic acid replenisher such as frolinic acid aceglatone aldophosphamide glycoside aminolevulinic acid eniluracil amsacrine bestrabucil bisantrene edatraxate defofamine demecolcine diaziquone elfomithine elliptinium acetate an epothilone etoglucid gallium nitrate hydroxyurea lentinan lonidainine maytansinoids such as maytansine and ansamitocins mitoguazone mitoxantrone mopidamnol nitraerine pentostatin phenamet pirarubicin losoxantrone podophyllinic acid 2 ethylhydrazide procarbazine PSK polysaccharide complex JHS Natural Products Eugene Oreg. razoxane rhizoxin sizofuran spirogermanium tenuazonic acid triaziquone 2 2 2 trichlorotriethylamine trichothecenes especially T 2 toxin verracurin A roridin A and anguidine urethan vindesine dacarbazine mannomustine mitobronitol mitolactol pipobroman gacytosine arabinoside Ara C cyclophosphamide thiotepa taxoids e.g. TAXOL paclitaxel Bristol Myers Squibb Oncology Princeton N.J. ABRAXANE Cremophor free albumin engineered nanoparticle formulations of paclitaxel American Pharmaceutical Partners Schaumberg Ill. and TAXOTERE docetaxel doxetaxel Sanofi Aventis chloranmbucil GEMZAR gemcitabine 6 thioguanine mercaptopurine methotrexate platinum analogs such as cisplatin and carboplatin vinblastine etoposide VP 16 ifosfamide mitoxantrone vincristine NAVELBINE vinorelbine novantrone teniposide edatrexate daunomycin aminopterin capecitabine XELODA ibandronate CPT 11 topoisomerase inhibitor RFS 2000 difluoromethylornithine DMFO retinoids such as retinoic acid and pharmaceutically acceptable salts acids and derivatives of any of the above.

Also included in the definition of chemotherapeutic agent are i anti hormonal agents that act to regulate or inhibit hormone action on tumors such as anti estrogens and selective estrogen receptor modulators SERMs including for example tamoxifen including NOLVADEX tamoxifen citrate raloxifene droloxifene 4 hydroxytamoxifen trioxifene keoxifene LY117018 onapristone and FARESTON toremifine citrate ii aromatase inhibitors that inhibit the enzyme aromatase which regulates estrogen production in the adrenal glands such as for example 4 5 imidazoles aminoglutethimide MEGASE megestrol acetate AROMASIN exemestane Pfizer formestanie fadrozole RIVISOR vorozole FEMARA letrozole Novartis and ARIMIDEX anastrozole AstraZeneca iii anti androgens such as flutamide nilutamide bicalutamide leuprolide and goserelin as well as troxacitabine a 1 3 dioxolane nucleoside cytosine analog iv protein kinase inhibitors v lipid kinase inhibitors vi antisense oligonucleotides particularly those which inhibit expression of genes in signaling pathways implicated in aberrant cell proliferation such as for example PKC alpha Raf and H Ras vii ribozymes such as VEGF expression inhibitors e.g. ANGIOZYME and HER2 expression inhibitors viii vaccines such as gene therapy vaccines for example ALLOVECTIN LEUVECTIN and VAXID PROLEUKIN rIL 2 a topoisomerase 1 inhibitor such as LURTOTECAN ABARELIX rmRH ix anti angiogenic agents such as bevacizumab AVASTIN Genentech and x pharmaceutically acceptable salts acids and derivatives of any of the above.

In one embodiment there is provided a compound according to formula I wherein R R Rand Ar are as described herein above.

In another embodiment there is provided a compound according to formula I wherein Ris optionally substituted pyrazolyl triazolyl oxadiazolyl oxazolyl imidazolinyl or isoxazolyl.

In another embodiment there is provided a compound according to formula I wherein Ris optionally substituted pyrazolyl triazolyl oxadiazolyl oxazolyl or isoxazolyl.

In another embodiment there is provided a compound according to formula I wherein Ris triazolyl. In another embodiment there is provided a compound according to formula I wherein Ris optionally substituted triazolyl.

In another embodiment there is provided a compound according to formula I wherein Ris optionally substituted imidazolinyl. In another embodiment there is provided a compound according to formula I wherein Ris optionally substituted oxazolinyl.

In another embodiment there is provided a compound according to formula I wherein Ris optionally substituted isoxazolinyl.

In another embodiment there is provided a compound according to formula I wherein Ris 2 alkyl 2H 1 2 3 triazol 4 yl. In another embodiment there is provided a compound according to formula I wherein Ris 2 Calkyl 2H 1 2 3 triazol 4 yl. In yet another embodiment there is provided a compound according to formula I wherein Ris 2 methyl 2H 1 2 3 triazol 4 yl.

In another embodiment there is provided a compound according to formula I wherein Ris optionally substituted pyrazolyl. In another embodiment there is provided a compound according to formula I wherein Ris substituted pyrazolyl. In another embodiment there is provided a compound according to formula I wherein Ris optionally substituted 1H pyrazol 3 yl or 1H pyrazol 4 yl. In another embodiment there is provided a compound according to formula I wherein Ris 1 alkyl 1H pyrazol 3 yl or 1 alkyl 1H pyrazol 4 yl. In another embodiment there is provided a compound according to formula I wherein Ris 1 Calkyl 1H pyrazol 3 yl 1 Calkyl 1H pyrazol 4 yl or 1 Chydroxyalkyl 1H pyrazol 4 yl. In another embodiment there is provided a compound according to formula I wherein Ris 1 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 yl 1 methyl 1H pyrazol 4 yl or 1 2 hydroxyethyl 1H pyrazol 4 yl.

In another embodiment Ris heterocyclyl or heteroaryl wherein the heterocyclyl and heteroaryl are optionally substituted with one to three substituents independently selected from Calkyl Chydroxyalkyl halogen hydroxyl and oxo. In another embodiment Ris heterocyclyl or heteroaryl wherein the heterocyclyl and heteroaryl are optionally substituted with Calkyl Chydroxyalkyl or halogen.

In certain embodiments Ris heterocyclyl wherein the heterocyclyl is optionally substituted with one to three substituents independently selected from Calkyl Chydroxyalkyl halogen hydroxyl and oxo and wherein the heterocyclyl is a 3 to 7 membered ring containing 1 to 3 heteroatoms selected from N O and S. In certain embodiments Ris heterocyclyl wherein the heterocyclyl is optionally substituted with Calkyl or halogen and wherein the heterocyclyl is a 3 to 7 membered ring containing 1 to 3 heteroatoms selected from N O and S. In certain embodiments Ris pyrrolidinyl wherein the pyrrolidinyl is optionally substituted with one to three substituents independently selected from Calkyl Chydroxyalkyl halogen hydroxyl and oxo. In certain embodiments Ris pyrrolidinyl wherein the pyrrolidinyl is optionally substituted with Calkyl or halogen. In certain embodiments Ris pyrrolidin 2 yl pyrrolidin 3 yl 3 fluoro pyrrolidin 3 yl 1 methyl pyrrolidin 2 yl 4 fluoro pyrrolidin 2 yl or 5 methyl pyrrolidin 2 yl.

In certain embodiments Ris heteroaryl wherein the heteroaryl is optionally substituted with one to three substituents independently selected from Calkyl Chydroxyalkyl halogen hydroxyl and oxo and wherein the heteroaryl is a 5 to 6 membered ring containing 1 to 4 heteroatoms selected from N O and S. In certain embodiments Ris heteroaryl wherein the heteroaryl is optionally substituted with Calkyl or Chydroxyalkyl and wherein the heteroaryl is a 5 to 6 membered ring containing 1 to 4 heteroatoms selected from N O and S. In certain embodiments Ris heteroaryl wherein the heteroaryl is optionally substituted with one to three substituents independently selected from the group consisting of Calkyl Chydroxyalkyl halogen hydroxyl and oxo and wherein the heteroaryl is selected from pyrazolyl oxadiazolyl triazolyl oxazolyl imidazolinyl and isoxazolyl. In certain embodiments Ris heteroaryl wherein the heteroaryl is optionally substituted with one to three substituents independently selected from Calkyl Chydroxyalkyl halogen hydroxyl and oxo and wherein the heteroaryl is selected from pyrazolyl oxadiazolyl and triazolyl. In certain embodiments Ris heteroaryl wherein the heteroaryl is optionally substituted with Calkyl or Chydroxyalkyl and wherein the heteroaryl is selected from pyrazolyl oxadiazolyl and triazolyl. In certain embodiments Ris 1 methyl 1H pyrazol 4 yl 1 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 yl 1 ethyl 1H pyrazol 3 yl 1 2 4 oxadiazol 5 yl 2 methyl 2H 1 2 3 triazol 4 yl or 1 2 hydroxyethyl 1H pyrazol 4 yl.

In certain embodiments Ris selected from the group consisting of 1 methyl 1H pyrazol 4 yl 1 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 yl 1 ethyl 1H pyrazol 3 yl 1 2 4 oxadiazol 5 yl 2 methyl 2H 1 2 3 triazol 4 yl 1 2 hydroxyethyl 1H pyrazol 4 yl pyrrolidin 2 yl pyrrolidin 3 yl 3 fluoro pyrrolidin 3 yl 1 methyl pyrrolidin 2 yl 4 fluoro pyrrolidin 2 yl and 5 methyl pyrrolidin 2 yl.

In another embodiment there is provided a compound according to formula I wherein Ris an optionally substituted pyrazolyl triazolyl oxadiazolyl oxazolyl or isoxazolyl moiety and Ris selected from the group consisting of a tetrahydropyranyl b tetrahydrofuranyl c oxetanyl wherein said tetrahydropyranyl tetrahydrofuranyl and oxetanyl are optionally substituted with one to three groups independently selected from Calkyl Chaloalkyl Chydroxyalkyl Cacyloxy Calkyl or halogen d 2 hydroxy 1 methyl ethan 1 yl e 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 methyl ethan 1 yl f 1 1 cyclopropyl ethan 1 yl g 2 methoxyethyl h 3 fluoropropyl i cyclopropylmethyl j oxetanylmethyl k 4 hydroxycyclohexyl and l pyrazolyl wherein said pyrazolyl moiety is optionally substituted with one to three groups independently selected from Calkyl Chaloalkyl and halogen. In another embodiment there is provided a compound according to formula I wherein Ris an optionally substituted pyrazolyl triazolyl or oxadiazolyl moiety and Ris selected from the group concicting of a tetrahydropyranyl b tetrahydrofuranyl c oxetanyl wherein said tetrahydropyranyl tetrahydrofuranyl and oxetanyl are optionally substituted with one to three groups independently selected from Calkyl Chaloalkyl Chydroxyalkyl Cacyloxy Calkyl or halogen d 2 hydroxy 1 methyl ethan 1 yl e 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 methyl ethan 1 yl f 1 cyclopropyl ethan 1 yl g 2 methoxyethyl h 3 fluoropropyl i cyclopropylmethyl j oxetanylmethyl k 4 hydroxycyclohexyl and l pyrazolyl wherein said pyrazolyl moiety is optionally substituted with one to three groups independently selected from Calkyl Chaloalkyl and halogen. In yet another embodiment of the present invention there is provided a compound according to formula I wherein Ris an optionally substituted pyrazolyl triazolyl or oxadiazolyl moiety and Ris tetrahydropyranyl or tetrahydrofuranyl optionally substituted with Chydroxyalkyl or halogen. In yet another embodiment of the present invention there is provided a compound according to formula I wherein Ris an optionally substituted pyrazolyl triazolyl or oxadiazolyl moiety and Ris tetrahydropyranyl or tetrahydrofuranyl. In yet another embodiment of the present invention there is provided a compound according to formula I wherein Ris an optionally substituted pyrazolyl triazolyl or oxadiazolyl moiety and Ris tetrahydropyranyl or tetrahydrofuranyl substituted by one or two fluorine atoms. In yet another embodiment of the present invention there is provided a compound according to formula I wherein Ris an optionally substituted pyrazolyl triazolyl or oxadiazolyl moiety and Ris tetrahydropyranyl or tetrahydrofuranyl substituted by hydroxymethyl.

In another embodiment there is provided a compound according to formula I wherein Ris an optionally substituted pyrazolyl triazolyl oxadiazolyl oxazolyl or isoxazolyl moiety and Ris selected from a tetrahydropyranyl b tetrahydrofuranyl c oxetanyl wherein said tetrahydropyranyl tetrahydrofuranyl and oxetanyl are optionally substituted with one to three groups independently selected from Calkyl Chaloalkyl Chydroxyalkyl Cacyloxy Calkyl and halogen d 2 hydroxy 1 methyl ethan 1 yl e 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 methyl ethan 1 yl f 1 cyclopropyl ethan 1 yl g 2 methoxyethyl h 3 fluoropropyl i cyclopropylmethyl j oxetanylmethyl and k 4 hydroxycyclohexyl. In another embodiment there is provided a compound according to formula I wherein Ris an optionally substituted pyrazolyl triazolyl or oxadiazolyl moiety and Ris selected from a tetrahydropyranyl b tetrahydrofuranyl c oxetanyl wherein said tetrahydropyranyl tetrahydrofuranyl and oxetanyl are optionally substituted with one to three groups independently selected from Calkyl Chaloalkyl Chydroxyalkyl Cacyloxy Calkyl and halogen d 2 hydroxy 1 methyl ethan 1 yl e 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 methyl ethan 1 yl f 1 cyclopropyl ethan 1 yl g 2 methoxyethyl h 3 fluoropropyl i cyclopropylmethyl j oxetanylmethyl and k 4 hydroxycyclohexyl.

In yet another embodiment of the present invention there is provided a compound according to formula I wherein Ris an optionally substituted pyrazolyl triazolyl or oxadiazolyl moiety and Ris pyrazolyl wherein said pyrazolyl moiety is optionally substituted with one to three groups independently selected from the group consisting of Calkyl Chaloalkyl and halogen. In yet another embodiment of the present invention there is provided a compound according to formula I wherein Ris an optionally substituted pyrazolyl triazolyl or oxadiazolyl moiety and Ris pyrazolyl substituted with one to three Calkyl groups. In another embodiment there is provided a compound according to formula I wherein Ris an optionally substituted pyrazolyl triazolyl or oxadiazolyl moiety and Ris 2 methylpyrazol 3 yl 2 5 dimethylpyrazol 3 yl or 1 3 dimethylpyrazol 4 yl.

In another embodiment there is provided a compound according to formula I wherein Ris an optionally substituted pyrazolyl triazolyl oxadiazolyl oxazolyl or isoxazolyl moiety and Ris tetrahydropyran 4 yl or 3 fluoro tetrahydropyran 4 yl. In another embodiment there is provided a compound according to formula I wherein Ris an optionally substituted pyrazolyl triazolyl or oxadiazolyl moiety and Ris tetrahydropyran 4 yl or 3 fluoro tetrahydropyran 4 yl.

In another embodiment there is provided a compound according to formula I wherein Ris an optionally substituted pyrazolyl triazolyl oxadiazolyl oxazolyl or isoxazolyl moiety and Ris 2 hydroxymethyl tetrahydropyran 4 yl. In another embodiment there is provided a compound according to formula I wherein Ris an optionally substituted pyrazolyl triazolyl or oxadiazolyl moiety and Ris 2 hydroxymethyl tetrahydropyran 4 yl.

In another embodiment there is provided a compound according to formula I wherein Ris an optionally substituted triazolyl moiety and Ris selected from a tetrahydropyranyl b tetrahydrofuranyl c oxetanyl wherein said tetrahydropyranyl tetrahydrofuranyl and oxetanyl are optionally substituted with one to three groups independently selected from the group consisting of Calkyl Chaloalkyl Chydroxyalkyl Cacyloxy Calkyl and halogen d 2 hydroxy 1 methyl ethan 1 yl e 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 methyl ethan 1 yl f 1 cyclopropyl ethan 1 yl g 2 methoxyethyl h 3 fluoropropyl i cyclopropylmethyl j oxetanylmethyl k 4 hydroxycyclohexyl and l pyrazolyl wherein said pyrazolyl moiety is optionally substituted with one to three groups independently selected from the group consisting of Calkyl Chaloalkyl and halogen. In yet another embodiment of the present invention there is provided a compound according to formula I wherein Ris an optionally substituted triazolyl moiety and Ris tetrahydropyranyl or tetrahydrofuranyl optionally substituted with Chydroxyalkyl or halogen. In yet another embodiment of the present invention there is provided a compound according to formula I wherein Ris an optionally substituted triazolyl moiety and Ris tetrahydropyranyl or tetrahydrofuranyl. In yet another embodiment of the present invention there is provided a compound according to formula I wherein Ris an optionally substituted triazolyl moiety and Ris tetrahydropyranyl or tetrahydrofuranyl substituted by one or two fluorine atoms. In another embodiment there is provided a compound according to formula I wherein Ris an optionally substituted triazolyl moiety and Ris tetrahydropyran 4 yl or 3 fluoro tetrahydropyran 4 yl. In yet another embodiment of the present invention there is provided a compound according to formula I wherein Ris an optionally substituted triazolyl moiety and Ris tetrahydropyranyl or tetrahydrofuranyl substituted by hydroxymethyl.

In another embodiment there is provided a compound according to formula I wherein Ris an optionally substituted triazolyl moiety and Ris selected from a tetrahydropyranyl b tetrahydrofuranyl c oxetanyl wherein said tetrahydropyranyl tetrahydrofuranyl and oxetanyl are optionally substituted with one to three groups independently selected from Calkyl Chaloalkyl Chydroxyalkyl Cacyloxy Calkyl and halogen d 2 hydroxy 1 methyl ethan 1 yl e 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 methyl ethan 1 yl f 1 cyclopropyl ethan 1 yl g 2 methoxyethyl h 3 fluoropropyl i cyclopropylmethyl j oxetanylmethyl and k 4 hydroxycyclohexyl.

In another embodiment there is provided a compound according to formula I wherein Ris an optionally substituted triazolyl moiety and Ris 2 hydroxymethyl tetrahydropyran 4 yl.

In another embodiment there is provided a compound according to formula I wherein Ris an optionally substituted triazolyl moiety and Ris pyrazolyl optionally substituted with one to three Calkyl groups. In another embodiment there is provided a compound according to formula I wherein Ris an optionally substituted triazolyl moiety and Ris 2 methylpyrazol 3 yl 2 5 dimethylpyrazol 3 yl or 1 3 dimethylpyrazol 4 yl.

In another embodiment there is provided a compound according to formula I wherein Ris an optionally substituted oxadiazolyl moiety and Ris selected from a tetrahydropyranyl b tetrahydrofuranyl c oxetanyl wherein said tetrahydropyranyl tetrahydrofuranyl and oxetanyl are optionally substituted with one to three groups independently selected from the group consisting of Calkyl Chaloalkyl Chydroxyalkyl Cacyloxy Calkyl and halogen d 2 hydroxy 1 methyl ethan 1 yl e 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 methyl ethan 1 yl f 1 cyclopropyl ethan 1 yl g 2 methoxyethyl h 3 fluoropropyl i cyclopropylmethyl j oxetanylmethyl k 4 hydroxycyclohexyl and l pyrazolyl wherein said pyrazolyl moiety is optionally substituted with one to three groups independently selected from Calkyl Chaloalkyl and halogen. In another embodiment there is provided a compound according to formula I wherein Ris an optionally substituted oxadiazolyl moiety and Ris selected from the group consisting of a tetrahydropyranyl b tetrahydrofuranyl c oxetanyl wherein said tetrahydropyranyl tetrahydrofuranyl and oxetanyl are optionally substituted with one to three groups independently selected from Calkyl Chaloalkyl Chydroxyalkyl Cacyloxy Calkyl and halogen d 2 hydroxy 1 methyl ethan 1 yl e 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 methyl ethan 1 yl f 1 cyclopropyl ethan 1 yl g 2 methoxyethyl h 3 fluoropropyl i cyclopropylmethyl j oxetanylmethyl and k 4 hydroxycyclohexyl. In yet another embodiment of the present invention there is provided a compound according to formula I wherein Ris an optionally substituted oxadiazolyl moiety and Ris tetrahydropyranyl or tetrahydrofuranyl. In yet another embodiment of the present invention there is provided a compound according to formula I wherein Ris an optionally substituted oxadiazolyl moiety and Ris tetrahydropyranyl or tetrahydrofuranyl optionally substituted with Chydroxyalkyl or halogen. In yet another embodiment of the present invention there is provided a compound according to formula I wherein Ris an optionally substituted oxadiazolyl moiety and Ris tetrahydropyranyl or tetrahydrofuranyl substituted by one or two fluorine atoms. In another embodiment there is provided a compound according to formula I wherein Ris an optionally substituted oxadiazolyl moiety and Ris tetrahydropyran 4 yl or 3 fluoro tetrahydropyran 4 yl. In yet another embodiment of the present invention there is provided a compound according to formula I wherein Ris an optionally substituted oxadiazolyl moiety and Ris tetrahydropyranyl or tetrahydrofuranyl substituted by hydroxymethyl. In another embodiment there is provided a compound according to formula I wherein Ris an optionally substituted oxadiazolyl moiety and Ris 2 hydroxymethyl tetrahydropyran 4 yl.

In another embodiment there is provided a compound according to formula I wherein Ris an optionally substituted oxadiazolyl moiety and Ris selected from a tetrahydropyranyl b tetrahydrofuranyl c oxetanyl wherein said tetrahydropyranyl tetrahydrofuranyl and oxetanyl are optionally substituted with one to three groups independently selected from Calkyl Chaloalkyl Chydroxyalkyl Cacyloxy Calkyl and halogen d 2 hydroxy 1 methyl ethan 1 yl e 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 methyl ethan 1 yl f 1 cyclopropyl ethan 1 yl g 2 methoxyethyl h 3 fluoropropyl i cyclopropylmethyl j oxetanylmethyl and k 4 hydroxycyclohexyl.

In another embodiment there is provided a compound according to formula I wherein Ris an optionally substituted oxadiazolyl moiety and Ris pyrazolyl wherein said pyrazolyl moiety is optionally independently substituted with one to three Calkyl groups. In another embodiment there is provided a compound according to formula I wherein Ris an optionally substituted oxadiazolyl moiety and Ris 2 methylpyrazol 3 yl 2 5 dimethylpyrazol 3 yl or 1 3 dimethylpyrazol 4 yl.

In another embodiment there is provided a compound according to formula I wherein Ris an optionally substituted pyrazolyl moiety and Ris selected from the group consisting of a tetrahydropyranyl b tetrahydrofuranyl c oxetanyl wherein said tetrahydropyranyl tetrahydrofuranyl and oxetanyl are optionally substituted with one to three groups independently selected from Calkyl Chaloalkyl Chydroxyalkyl Cacyloxy Calkyl and halogen d 2 hydroxy 1 methyl ethan 1 yl e 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 methyl ethan 1 yl f 1 cyclopropyl ethan 1 yl g 2 methoxyethyl h 3 fluoropropyl i cyclopropylmethyl j oxetanylmethyl k 4 hydroxycyclohexyl and l pyrazolyl wherein said pyrazolyl moiety is optionally substituted with one to three groups independently selected from Calkyl Chaloalkyl and halogen. In another embodiment there is provided a compound according to formula I wherein Ris a 1 alkyl 1H pyrazol 3 yl or 1 alkyl 1H pyrazol 4 yl moiety and Ris selected from the group consisting of a tetrahydropyranyl b tetrahydrofuranyl c oxetanyl wherein said tetrahydropyranyl tetrahydrofuranyl and oxetanyl are optionally substituted with one to three groups independently selected from Calkyl Chaloalkyl Chydroxyalkyl Cacyloxy Calkyl and halogen d 2 hydroxy 1 methyl ethan 1 yl e 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 methyl ethan 1 yl f 1 cyclopropyl ethan 1 yl g 2 methoxyethyl h 3 fluoropropyl i cyclopropylmethyl j oxetanylmethyl k 4 hydroxycyclohexyl and l pyrazolyl wherein said pyrazolyl moiety is optionally substituted with one to three groups independently selected from Calkyl Chaloalkyl and halogen. In yet another embodiment of the present invention there is provided a compound according to formula I wherein Ris a 1 alkyl 1H pyrazol 3 yl 1 alkyl 1H pyrazol 4 yl or 1 hydroxyalkyl 1H pyrazol 4 yl moiety and Ris tetrahydropyranyl or tetrahydrofuranyl. In yet another embodiment of the present invention there is provided a compound according to formula I wherein Ris a 1 alkyl 1H pyrazol 3 yl 1 alkyl 1H pyrazol 4 yl or 1 hydroxyalkyl 1H pyrazol 4 yl moiety and Ris tetrahydropyranyl or tetrahydrofuranyl optionally substituted with Chydroxyalkyl or halogen. In yet another embodiment of the present invention there is provided a compound according to formula I wherein Ris a 1 alkyl 1H pyrazol 3 yl 1 alkyl 1H pyrazol 4 yl or 1 hydroxyalkyl 1H pyrazol 4 yl moiety and Ris tetrahydropyranyl or tetrahydrofuranyl substituted by one or two fluorine atoms. In yet another embodiment of the present invention there is provided a compound according to formula I wherein Ris a 1 alkyl 1H pyrazol 3 yl 1 alkyl 1H pyrazol 4 yl or 1 hydroxyalkyl 1H pyrazol 4 yl moiety and Ris tetrahydropyranyl or tetrahydrofuranyl substituted by hydroxymethyl.

In another embodiment there is provided a compound according to formula I wherein Ris an optionally substituted pyrazolyl moiety and Ris selected from a tetrahydropyranyl b tetrahydrofuranyl c oxetanyl wherein said tetrahydropyranyl tetrahydrofuranyl and oxetanyl are optionally substituted with one to three groups independently selected from Calkyl Chaloalkyl Chydroxyalkyl Cacyloxy Calkyl and halogen d 2 hydroxy 1 methyl ethan 1 yl e 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 methyl ethan 1 yl f 1 cyclopropyl ethan 1 yl g 2 methoxyethyl h 3 fluoropropyl i cyclopropylmethyl j oxetanylmethyl and k 4 hydroxycyclohexyl. In another embodiment there is provided a compound according to formula I wherein Ris a 1 alkyl 1H pyrazol 3 yl or 1 alkyl 1H pyrazol 4 yl moiety and Ris selected from a tetrahydropyranyl b tetrahydrofuranyl c oxetanyl wherein said tetrahydropyranyl tetrahydrofuranyl and oxetanyl are optionally substituted with one to three groups independently selected from Calkyl Chaloalkyl Chydroxyalkyl Cacyloxy Calkyl and halogen d 2 hydroxy 1 methyl ethan 1 yl e 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 methyl ethan 1 yl f 1 cyclopropyl ethan 1 yl g 2 methoxyethyl h 3 fluoropropyl i cyclopropylmethyl j oxetanylmethyl and k 4 hydroxycyclohexyl.

In another embodiment there is provided a compound according to formula I wherein Ris an optionally substituted pyrazolyl moiety and Ris pyrazolyl optionally substituted with one to three Calkyl groups. In another embodiment there is provided a compound according to formula I wherein Ris an optionally substituted pyrazolyl moiety and Ris 2 methylpyrazol 3 yl 2 5 dimethylpyrazol 3 yl or 1 3 dimethylpyrazol 4 yl.

In yet another embodiment of the present invention there is provided a compound according to formula I wherein Ris an 1 alkyl 1H pyrazol 3 yl 1 alkyl 1H pyrazol 4 yl or 1 hydroxyalkyl 1H pyrazol 4 yl moiety and Ris tetrahydropyran 4 yl or 3 fluoro tetrahydropyranyl.

In yet another embodiment of the present invention there is provided a compound according to formula I wherein Ris an 1 alkyl 1H pyrazol 3 yl 1 alkyl 1H pyrazol 4 yl or 1 hydroxyalkyl 1H pyrazol 4 yl moiety and Ris 2 hydroxymethyl tetrahydropyran 4 yl.

In another embodiment there is provided a compound according to formula I wherein Ris an 1 alkyl 1H pyrazol 3 yl 1 alkyl 1H pyrazol 4 yl or 1 hydroxyalkyl 1H pyrazol 4 yl moiety and Ris pyrazolyl substituted with one to three Calkyl groups. In another embodiment there is provided a compound according to formula I wherein Ris an 1 alkyl 1H pyrazol 3 yl 1 alkyl 1H pyrazol 4 yl or 1 hydroxyalkyl 1H pyrazol 4 yl moiety and Ris 2 methylpyrazol 3 yl 2 5 dimethylpyrazol 3 yl or 1 3 dimethylpyrazol 4 yl.

In another embodiment there is provided a compound according to formula I wherein Ris a 1 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 yl or 1 methyl 1H pyrazol 4 yl moiety and Ris selected from the group consisting of a tetrahydropyranyl b tetrahydrofuranyl c oxetanyl wherein said tetrahydropyranyl tetrahydrofuranyl and oxetanyl are optionally substituted with one to three groups independently selected from Calkyl Chaloalkyl Chydroxyalkyl Cacyloxy Calkyl and halogen d 2 hydroxy 1 methyl ethan 1 yl e 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 methyl ethan 1 yl f 1 cyclopropyl ethan 1 yl g 2 methoxyethyl h 3 fluoropropyl i cyclopropylmethyl j oxetanylmethyl k 4 hydroxycyclohexyl and l pyrazolyl wherein said pyrazolyl moiety is optionally substituted with one to three groups independently selected from Calkyl Chaloalkyl and halogen. In yet another embodiment of the present invention there is provided a compound according to formula I wherein Ris a 1 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 yl or 1 methyl 1H pyrazol 4 yl moiety and Ris tetrahydropyranyl or tetrahydrofuranyl. In yet another embodiment of the present invention there is provided a compound according to formula I wherein Ris a 1 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 yl or 1 methyl 1H pyrazol 4 yl moiety and Ris tetrahydropyranyl or tetrahydrofuranyl optionally substituted with Chydroxyalkyl or halogen. In yet another embodiment of the present invention there is provided a compound according to formula I wherein Ris a 1 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 yl or 1 methyl 1H pyrazol 4 yl moiety and Ris tetrahydropyranyl or tetrahydrofuranyl substituted by one or two fluorine atoms. In yet another embodiment of the present invention there is provided a compound according to formula I wherein Ris a 1 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 yl or 1 methyl 1H pyrazol 4 yl moiety and Ris tetrahydropyran 4 yl or 3 fluorotetrahydropyran 4 yl. In yet another embodiment of the present invention there is provided a compound according to formula I wherein Ris a 1 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 yl or 1 methyl 1H pyrazol 4 yl moiety and Ris tetrahydropyranyl or tetrahydrofuranyl substituted by hydroxymethyl. In yet another embodiment of the present invention there is provided a compound according to formula I wherein Ris a 1 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 yl or 1 methyl 1H pyrazol 4 yl moiety and Ris 2 hydroxymethyl tetrahydropyran 4 yl.

In another embodiment there is provided a compound according to formula I wherein Ris a 1 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 yl or 1 methyl 1H pyrazol 4 yl moiety and Ris selected from a tetrahydropyranyl b tetrahydrofuranyl c oxetanyl wherein said tetrahydropyranyl tetrahydrofuranyl and oxetanyl are optionally substituted with one to three groups independently selected from Calkyl Chaloalkyl Chydroxyalkyl Cacyloxy Calkyl and halogen d 2 hydroxy 1 methyl ethan 1 yl e 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 methyl ethan 1 yl f 1 cyclopropyl ethan 1 yl g 2 methoxyethyl h 3 fluoropropyl i cyclopropylmethyl j oxetanylmethyl and k 4 hydroxycyclohexyl.

In another embodiment there is provided a compound according to formula I wherein Ris a 1 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 yl or 1 methyl 1H pyrazol 4 yl moiety and Ris 2 methylpyrazol 3 yl 2 5 dimethylpyrazol 3 yl or 1 3 dimethylpyrazol 4 yl.

In another embodiment there is provided a compound according to formula I wherein Ris an optionally substituted pyrazolyl moiety and Ris tetrahydropyran 4 yl 3 fluoro tetrahydropyran 4 yl or 2 hydroxymethyl tetrahydropyran 4 yl. In another embodiment there is provided a compound according to formula I wherein Ris a 1 alkyl 1H pyrazol 3 yl 1 alkyl 1H pyrazol 4 yl or 1 hydroxyalkyl 1H pyrazol 4 yl moiety and Ris tetrahydropyran 4 yl 3 fluoro tetrahydropyran 4 yl or 2 hydroxymethyl tetrahydropyran 4 yl. In another embodiment there is provided a compound according to formula I wherein Ris a 1 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 yl 1 methyl 1H pyrazol 4 yl or 1 2 hydroxyethyl 1H pyrazol 4 yl moiety and Ris tetrahydropyran 4 yl 3 fluoro tetrahydropyran 4 yl or 2 hydroxymethyl tetrahydropyran 4 yl.

In another embodiment there is provided a compound according to formula I wherein R is an pyrazolyl moiety optionally substituted with one to three groups independently selected from the group consisting of Calkyl and halogen and Ris pyrazolyl substituted with one to three Calkyl groups. In another embodiment there is provided a compound according to formula I wherein Ris a 1 alkyl 1H pyrazol 3 yl 1 alkyl 1H pyrazol 4 yl or 1 hydroxyalkyl 1H pyrazol 4 yl moiety and Ris pyrazolyl substituted with one to three Calkyl groups. In another embodiment there is provided a compound according to formula I wherein Ris a 1 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 yl 1 methyl 1H pyrazol 4 yl or 1 2 hydroxyethyl 1H pyrazol 4 yl moiety and Ris 2 methylpyrazol 3 yl 2 5 dimethylpyrazol 3 yl or 1 3 dimethylpyrazol 4 yl.

In another embodiment there is provided a compound according to formula I wherein Ris an optionally substituted pyrrolidinyl piperdinyl or morpholinyl. In another embodiment there is provided a compound according to formula I wherein Ris an optionally substituted pyrrolidinyl. In another embodiment there is provided a compound according to formula I wherein Ris 1 methyl pyrrolidin 2 yl or 1 methyl pyrrolindin 3 yl. In another embodiment there is provided a compound according to formula I wherein Ris pyrrolidin 2 yl or pyrrolindin 3 yl.

In another embodiment there is provided a compound according to formula I wherein Ris an optionally substituted pyrrolidinyl and Ris selected from the group consisting of a tetrahydropyranyl b tetrahydrofuranyl c oxetanyl wherein said tetrahydropyranyl tetrahydrofuranyl and oxetanyl are optionally substituted with one to three groups independently selected from Calkyl Chaloalkyl Cacyloxy Calkyl Chydroxyalkyl and halogen d 2 hydroxy 1 methyl ethan 1 yl e 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 methyl ethan 1 yl f 1 cyclopropyl ethan 1 yl g 2 methoxyethyl h 3 fluoropropyl i cyclopropylmethyl j oxetanylmethyl k 4 hydroxycyclohexyl and l pyrazolyl wherein said pyrazolyl moiety is optionally substituted with one to three groups independently selected from Calkyl Chaloalkyl and halogen. In yet another embodiment of the present invention there is provided a compound according to formula I wherein Ris an optionally substituted pyrrolidinyl and Ris tetrahydropyran 4 yl or tetrahydrofuran 3 yl. In yet another embodiment of the present invention there is provided a compound according to formula I wherein Ris an optionally substituted pyrrolidinyl and Ris 3 fluoro tetrahydropyran 4 yl. In yet another embodiment of the present invention there is provided a compound according to formula I wherein Ris an optionally substituted pyrrolidinyl and Ris 2 hydroxymethyl tetrahydropyran 4 yl. In yet another embodiment of the present invention there is provided a compound according to formula I wherein Ris an optionally substituted pyrrolidinyl and Ris 2 methylpyrazol 3 yl 2 5 dimethylpyrazol 3 yl or 1 3 dimethylpyrazol 4 yl.

In another embodiment there is provided a compound according to formula I wherein Ris an optionally substituted pyrrolidinyl and Ris selected from a tetrahydropyranyl b tetrahydrofuranyl c oxetanyl wherein said tetrahydropyranyl tetrahydrofuranyl and oxetanyl are optionally substituted with one to three groups independently selected from Calkyl Chaloalkyl Cacyloxy Calkyl Chydroxyalkyl and halogen d 2 hydroxy 1 methyl ethan 1 yl e 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 methyl ethan 1 yl f 1 cyclopropyl ethan 1 yl g 2 methoxyethyl h 3 fluoropropyl i cyclopropylmethyl j oxetanylmethyl and k 4 hydroxycyclohexyl.

In another embodiment there is provided a compound according to formula I wherein Ris pyrrolidin 2 yl or pyrrolidin 3 yl and Ris selected from the group consisting of a tetrahydropyranyl b tetrahydrofuranyl c oxetanyl wherein said tetrahydropyranyl tetrahydrofuranyl and oxetanyl are optionally substituted with one to three groups independently selected from Calkyl Chaloalkyl Chydroxyalkyl Cacyloxy Calkyl and halogen d 2 hydroxy 1 methyl ethan 1 yl e 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 methyl ethan 1 yl f 1 cyclopropyl ethan 1 yl g 2 methoxyethyl h 3 fluoropropyl i cyclopropylmethyl j oxetanylmethyl k 4 hydroxycyclohexyl and l pyrazolyl wherein said pyrazolyl moiety is optionally substituted with one to three groups independently selected from Calkyl Chaloalkyl and halogen.

In another embodiment there is provided a compound according to formula I wherein Ris pyrrolidin 2 yl or pyrrolidin 3 yl and Ris selected from a tetrahydropyranyl b tetrahydrofuranyl c oxetanyl wherein said tetrahydropyranyl tetrahydrofuranyl and oxetanyl are optionally substituted with one to three groups independently selected from Calkyl Chaloalkyl Chydroxyalkyl Cacyloxy Calkyl and halogen d 2 hydroxy 1 methyl ethan 1 yl e 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 methyl ethan 1 yl f 1 cyclopropyl ethan 1 yl g 2 methoxyethyl h 3 fluoropropyl i cyclopropylmethyl j oxetanylmethyl and k 4 hydroxycyclohexyl.

In another embodiment there is provided a compound according to formula I wherein Ris 1 alkyl pyrrolidin 2 yl or 1 alkyl pyrrolidin 3 yl and Ris selected from the group consisting of a tetrahydropyranyl b tetrahydrofuranyl c oxetanyl wherein said tetrahydropyranyl tetrahydrofuranyl and oxetanyl are optionally substituted with one to three groups independently selected from Calkyl Chaloalkyl Cacyloxy Calkyl Chydroxyalkyl and halogen d 2 hydroxy 1 methyl ethan 1 yl e 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 methyl ethan 1 yl f 1 cyclopropyl ethan 1 yl g 2 methoxyethyl h 3 fluoropropyl i cyclopropylmethyl j oxetanylmethyl k 4 hydroxycyclohexyl and l pyrazolyl wherein said pyrazolyl moiety is optionally substituted with one to three groups independently selected from Calkyl Chaloalkyl and halogen.

In another embodiment there is provided a compound according to formula I wherein Ris 1 alkyl pyrrolidin 2 yl or 1 alkyl pyrrolidin 3 yl and Ris selected from a tetrahydropyranyl b tetrahydrofuranyl c oxetanyl wherein said tetrahydropyranyl tetrahydrofuranyl and oxetanyl are optionally substituted with one to three groups independently selected from Calkyl Chaloalkyl Cacyloxy Calkyl Chydroxyalkyl and halogen d 2 hydroxy 1 methyl ethan 1 yl e 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 methyl ethan 1 yl f 1 cyclopropyl ethan 1 yl g 2 methoxyethyl h 3 fluoropropyl i cyclopropylmethyl j oxetanylmethyl and k 4 hydroxycyclohexyl.

In another embodiment there is provided a compound according to formula I wherein Ris 1 methyl pyrrolidin 2 yl or 1 methyl pyrrolidin 3 yl and Ris selected from the group consisting of a tetrahydropyranyl b tetrahydrofuranyl c oxetanyl wherein said tetrahydropyranyl tetrahydrofuranyl and oxetanyl are optionally substituted with one to three groups independently selected from Calkyl Chaloalkyl Cacyloxy Calkyl Chydroxyalkyl and halogen d 2 hydroxy 1 methyl ethan 1 yl e 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 methyl ethan 1 yl f 1 cyclopropyl ethan 1 yl g 2 methoxyethyl h 3 fluoropropyl i cyclopropylmethyl j oxetanylmethyl k 4 hydroxycyclohexyl and l pyrazolyl wherein said pyrazolyl moiety is optionally substituted with one to three groups independently selected from Calkyl Chaloalkyl and halogen.

In another embodiment there is provided a compound according to formula I wherein Ris 1 methyl pyrrolidin 2 yl or 1 methyl pyrrolidin 3 yl and Ris selected from a tetrahydropyranyl b tetrahydrofuranyl c oxetanyl wherein said tetrahydropyranyl tetrahydrofuranyl and oxetanyl are optionally substituted with one to three groups independently selected from Calkyl Chaloalkyl Cacyloxy Calkyl Chydroxyalkyl and halogen d 2 hydroxy 1 methyl ethan 1 yl e 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 methyl ethan 1 yl f 1 cyclopropyl ethan 1 yl g 2 methoxyethyl h 3 fluoropropyl i cyclopropylmethyl j oxetanylmethyl and k 4 hydroxycyclohexyl.

In another embodiment there is provided a compound according to formula I wherein Ris an optionally substituted pyrrolidinyl and Ris tetrahydropyran 4 yl 3 fluoro tetrahydropyran 4 yl or 2 hydroxymethyl tetrahydropyran 4 yl.

In another embodiment there is provided a compound according to formula I wherein Ris pyrrolidin 2 yl or pyrrolidin 3 yl and Ris tetrahydropyran 4 yl 3 fluoro tetrahydropyran 4 yl or 2 hydroxymethyl tetrahydropyran 4 yl. In another embodiment there is provided a compound according to formula I wherein Ris pyrrolidin 2 yl or pyrrolidin 3 yl and Ris pyrazolyl wherein said pyrazolyl moiety is optionally substituted with one to three groups independently selected from the group consisting of Calkyl Chaloalkyl and halogen.

In certain embodiments Ar is phenyl optionally substituted by 1 to 5 groups independently selected from Calkyl Chaloalkyl Calkoxy Ccycloalkyl halogen Chaloalkoxy Calkylthio Cacylamino cyano and nitro. In certain embodiments Ar is phenyl optionally substituted by 1 or 2 groups independently selected from Calkyl Chaloalkyl Calkoxy Ccycloalkyl halogen Chaloalkoxy Calkylthio Cacylamino cyano and nitro. In certain embodiments Ar is phenyl substituted by 1 or 2 groups independently selected from Calkyl Chaloalkyl Calkoxy Ccycloalkyl halogen Chaloalkoxy Calkylthio Cacylamino cyano and nitro. In certain embodiments Ar is phenyl optionally substituted by 1 or 2 groups independently selected from Chaloalkyl Calkoxy halogen Chaloalkoxy and cyano. In certain embodiments Ar is phenyl substituted by 1 or 2 groups independently selected from Chaloalkyl Calkoxy halogen Chaloalkoxy and cyano. In certain embodiments Ar is 4 chloro 3 fluorophenyl 3 chloro 4 fluorophenyl 3 fluoro 4 trifluoromethylphenyl 3 fluoro 4 methoxyphenyl 4 difluoromethoxyphenyl 3 chloro 4 methoxyphenyl 4 cyano 3 fluorophenyl 3 chloro 4 cyanophenyl 3 cyano 4 methoxyphenyl or 3 fluorophenyl.

In certain embodiments Ar is pyridinyl optionally substituted by 1 to 5 groups independently selected from Calkyl Chaloalkyl Calkoxy Ccycloalkyl halogen Chaloalkoxy Calkylthio Cacylamino cyano and nitro. In certain embodiments Ar is pyridinyl optionally substituted by one to three groups independently selected from Calkyl and Calkoxy 

In certain embodiments Ris selected from the group consisting of a tetrahydropyranyl b tetrahydrofuranyl c oxetanyl wherein said tetrahydropyranyl tetrahydrofuranyl and oxetanyl are optionally substituted with one to three groups independently selected from Calkyl Chaloalkyl Cacyloxy Calkyl Chydroxyalkyl and halogen d 2 hydroxy 1 methyl ethan 1 yl e 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 methyl ethan 1 yl f 1 cyclopropyl ethan 1 yl g 2 methoxyethyl h 3 fluoropropyl i cyclopropylmethyl j oxetanylmethyl k 4 hydroxycyclohexyl and l pyrazolyl wherein said pyrazolyl moiety is optionally substituted with one to three groups independently selected from Calkyl Chaloalkyl and halogen. In certain embodiments Ris selected from the group consisting of a Calkyl b Chaloalkyl c heterocyclyl or heterocyclyl Calkyl wherein said heterocycle or heterocyclyl Calkyl is selected from the group consisting of tetrahydropyranyl tetrahydrofuranyl oxetanyl piperidinyl N Calkyl piperidinyl and N Calkyl 2 oxo pyrrolidinyl and wherein said heterocycle or heterocyclyl Calkyl is optionally substituted by 1 to 3 groups independently selected from Calkyl Chaloalkyl Cacyloxy Calkyl halogen hydroxyl phenyl Chydroxyalkyl and oxo d Ccycloalkyl or Ccycloalkyl Calkyl wherein said cycloalkyl is optionally substituted by hydroxyl or halo and e Cheteroalkyl. In certain embodiments Ris selected from the group consisting of a Calkyl b Chaloalkyl c heterocyclyl or heterocyclyl Calkyl wherein said heterocycle or heterocyclyl Calkyl is selected from the group consisting of tetrahydropyranyl tetrahydrofuranyl oxetanyl piperidinyl N Calkyl piperidinyl and N Calkyl 2 oxo pyrrolidinyl and wherein said heterocycle or heterocyclyl Calkyl is optionally substituted by 1 to 3 groups independently selected from Calkyl Cacyloxy Calkyl halogen and Chydroxyalkyl d Ccycloalkyl or Ccycloalkyl Calkyl wherein said cycloalkyl is optionally substituted by hydroxyl or halo and e Cheteroalkyl. In certain embodiments Ris selected from the group consisting of a Calkyl b Chaloalkyl c heterocyclyl or heterocyclyl Calkyl wherein said heterocycle or heterocyclyl Calkyl is selected from the group consisting of tetrahydropyranyl tetrahydrofuranyl oxetanyl piperidinyl N Calkyl piperidinyl and N Calkyl 2 oxo pyrrolidinyl and wherein said heterocycle is optionally substituted by 1 to 3 groups independently selected from the group consisting of Calkyl halogen Chydroxyalkyl and Cacyloxy Calkyl d Ccycloalkyl or Ccycloalkyl Calkyl wherein said cycloalkyl is optionally substituted by hydroxyl and e Cheteroalkyl. In certain embodiments Ris selected from the group consisting of a Calkyl b Chaloalkyl c heterocyclyl or heterocyclyl Calkyl wherein said heterocycle or heterocyclyl Calkyl is selected from the group consisting of tetrahydropyranyl tetrahydrofuranyl and oxetanyl and wherein said heterocycle is optionally substituted by Calkyl halogen Chydroxyalkyl or Cacyloxy Calkyl d Ccycloalkyl or Ccycloalkyl Calkyl wherein said cycloalkyl is optionally substituted by hydroxyl and e Cheteroalkyl. In certain embodiments Ris 1 hydroxypropan 2 yl isopropyl 1 cyclopropylethyl cyclopropylmethyl 4 hydroxycyclohexyl 1 1 1 trifluoropropan 2 yl 3 fluoropropyl tetrahydropyran 4 yl 3 fluorotetrahydropyran 4 yl 2 hydroxymethyl tetrahydropyran 4 yl 4 tetrahydro 2H pyran 2 yl methyl acetate tetrahydrofuran 3 yl 3 methyloxetan 3 yl oxetany 3 ylmethyl or 2 methoxyethyl. In certain embodiments Ris 1 hydroxypropan 2 yl isopropyl 1 cyclopropylethyl cyclopropylmethyl 4 hydroxycyclohexyl 1 1 1 trifluoropropan 2 yl or 3 fluoropropyl. In certain embodiments Ris tetrahydropyran 4 yl 3 fluorotetrahydropyran 4 yl 2 hydroxymethyl tetrahydropyran 4 yl 4 tetrahydro 2H pyran 2 yl methyl acetate tetrahydrofuran 3 yl 3 methyloxetan 3 yl or oxetany 3 ylmethyl. In certain embodiments Ris tetrahydropyran 4 yl 3 fluorotetrahydropyran 4 yl 2 hydroxymethyl tetrahydropyran 4 yl 4 tetrahydro 2H pyran 2 yl methyl acetate tetrahydrofuran 3 yl or 3 methyloxetan 3 yl. In certain embodiments Ris 2 methoxyethyl. In certain embodiments Ris pyrazolyl wherein said pyrazolyl moiety is optionally substituted with one to three groups independently selected from the group consisting of Calkyl Chaloalkyl and halogen. In certain embodiments Ris pyrazolyl wherein said pyrazolyl moiety is optionally independently substituted with one to three Calkyl groups. In certain embodiments Ris 2 methylpyrazol 3 yl 2 5 dimethylpyrazol 3 yl or 1 3 dimethylpyrazol 4 yl.

In certain embodiments Ris hydrogen or halogen. In certain embodiments Ris hydrogen or F. In certain embodiments Ris hydrogen. In certain embodiments Ris halogen. In certain embodiments Ris F.

In certain embodiments Ris 3 7 membered heterocyclyl or 5 6 membered heteroaryl wherein the heterocyclyl and heteroaryl are optionally substituted with Calkyl Chydroxyalkyl or halogen Ar is phenyl or pyridinyl optionally substituted by 1 or 2 groups independently selected from Chaloalkyl Calkoxy halogen Chaloalkoxy and cyano Ris selected from the group consisting of a Calkyl b Chaloalkyl c heterocyclyl or heterocyclyl Calkyl wherein said heterocycle or heterocyclyl Calkyl is selected from the group consisting of tetrahydropyranyl tetrahydrofuranyl oxetanyl piperidinyl N Calkyl piperidinyl and N Calkyl 2 oxo pyrrolidinyl and wherein said heterocycle or heterocyclyl Calkyl is optionally substituted by 1 to 3 groups independently selected from Calkyl Cacyloxy Calkyl halogen and Chydroxyalkyl d Ccycloalkyl or Ccycloalkyl Calkyl wherein said cycloalkyl is optionally substituted by hydroxyl and e Cheteroalkyl and Ris hydrogen or F. In certain embodiments Ris 3 7 membered heterocyclyl or 5 6 membered heteroaryl wherein the heterocyclyl and heteroaryl are optionally substituted with Calkyl Chydroxyalkyl or halogen Ar is phenyl optionally substituted by 1 or 2 groups independently selected from the group consisting of Chaloalkyl Calkoxy halogen Chaloalkoxy and cyano Ris selected from the group consisting of a Calkyl b Chaloalkyl c heterocyclyl or heterocyclyl Calkyl wherein said heterocycle or heterocyclyl Calkyl is selected from the group consisting of tetrahydropyranyl tetrahydrofuranyl oxetanyl piperidinyl N Calkyl piperidinyl and N Calkyl 2 oxo pyrrolidinyl and wherein said heterocycle or heterocyclyl Calkyl is optionally substituted by 1 to 3 groups independently selected from Calkyl Cacyloxy Calkyl halogen and Chydroxyalkyl d Ccycloalkyl or Ccycloalkyl Calkyl wherein said cycloalkyl is optionally substituted by hydroxyl and e Cheteroalkyl and Ris hydrogen or F. In certain embodiments Ris 3 7 membered heterocyclyl or 5 6 membered heteroaryl wherein the heterocyclyl and heteroaryl are optionally substituted with Calkyl Chydroxyalkyl or halogen Ar is phenyl optionally substituted by 1 or 2 groups independently selected from Chaloalkyl Calkoxy halogen Chaloalkoxy and cyano Ris selected from the group consisting of a Calkyl b Chaloalkyl c heterocyclyl or heterocyclyl Calkyl wherein said heterocycle or heterocyclyl Calkyl is selected from the group consisting of tetrahydropyranyl tetrahydrofuranyl and oxetanyl and wherein said heterocycle is optionally substituted by Calkyl Cacyloxy Calkyl halogen or Chydroxyalkyl d Ccycloalkyl or Ccycloalkyl Calkyl wherein said cycloalkyl is optionally substituted by hydroxyl and e Cheteroalkyl and Ris hydrogen or F. In certain embodiments Ris 3 7 membered heterocyclyl or 5 6 membered heteroaryl wherein the heterocyclyl and heteroaryl are optionally substituted with Calkyl Chydroxyalkyl or halogen Ar is phenyl substituted by 1 or 2 groups independently selected from Chaloalkyl Calkoxy halogen Chaloalkoxy and cyano Ris selected from the group consisting of a Calkyl b Chaloalkyl c tetrahydropyranyl tetrahydrofuranyl or oxetanyl optionally substituted with halogen or Chydroxyalkyl d Ccycloalkyl or Ccycloalkyl Calkyl wherein said cycloalkyl is optionally substituted by hydroxyl and f Chydroxyalkyl and Ris hydrogen or F In certain embodiments Ris 3 7 membered heterocyclyl or 5 6 membered heteroaryl wherein the heterocyclyl and heteroaryl are optionally substituted with Calkyl Chydroxyalkyl or halogen Ar is phenyl substituted by 1 or 2 groups independently selected from Chaloalkyl Calkoxy halogen Chaloalkoxy and cyano Ris pyrazolyl wherein said pyrazolyl moiety is optionally substituted with one to three groups independently selected the group consisting of rom Calkyl Chaloalkyl and halogen. In certain embodiments Ris 2 methylpyrazol 3 yl 2 5 dimethylpyrazol 3 yl or 1 3 dimethylpyrazol 4 yl and Ris hydrogen or F.

In certain embodiments Ris 3 7 membered heterocyclyl or 5 6 membered heteroaryl wherein the heterocyclyl and heteroaryl are optionally substituted with Calkyl Chydroxyalkyl or halogen Ar is phenyl optionally substituted by 1 or 2 groups independently selected from Chaloalkyl Calkoxy halogen Chaloalkoxy and cyano Ris selected from the group consisting of a Calkyl b Chaloalkyl c heterocyclyl or heterocyclyl Calkyl wherein said heterocycle or heterocyclyl Calkyl is selected from the group consisting of tetrahydropyranyl tetrahydrofuranyl oxetanyl piperidinyl N Calkyl piperidinyl and N Calkyl 2 oxo pyrrolidinyl and wherein said heterocycle or heterocyclyl Calkyl is optionally substituted by 1 to 3 groups independently selected from Calkyl Cacyloxy Calkyl halogen and Chydroxyalkyl d Ccycloalkyl or Ccycloalkyl Calkyl wherein said cycloalkyl is optionally substituted by hydroxyl and e Cheteroalkyl and Ris hydrogen or F. In certain embodiments Ris 3 7 membered heterocyclyl or 5 6 membered heteroaryl wherein the heterocyclyl and heteroaryl are optionally substituted with Calkyl Chydroxyalkyl or halogen Ar is phenyl optionally substituted by 1 or 2 groups independently selected from Chaloalkyl Calkoxy halogen Chaloalkoxy and cyano Ris selected from the group consisting of a Calkyl b Chaloalkyl c heterocyclyl or heterocyclyl Calkyl wherein said heterocycle or heterocyclyl Calkyl is selected from the group consisting of tetrahydropyranyl tetrahydrofuranyl and oxetanyl and wherein said heterocycle is optionally substituted by Calkyl Cacyloxy Calkyl halogen or Chydroxyalkyl d Ccycloalkyl or Ccycloalkyl Calkyl wherein said cycloalkyl is optionally substituted by hydroxyl and e Cheteroalkyl and Ris hydrogen or F. In certain embodiments Ris 3 7 membered heterocyclyl or 5 6 membered heteroaryl wherein the heterocyclyl and heteroaryl are optionally substituted with Calkyl Chydroxyalkyl or halogen Ar is phenyl substituted by 1 or 2 groups independently selected from Chaloalkyl Calkoxy halogen Chaloalkoxy and cyano Ris selected from the group consisting of a Calkyl b Chaloalkyl c tetrahydropyranyl tetrahydrofuranyl or oxetanyl optionally substituted with halogen or Chydroxyalkyl d Ccycloalkyl or Ccycloalkyl Calkyl wherein said cycloalkyl is optionally substituted by hydroxyl and f Chydroxyalkyl and Ris hydrogen or F.

In certain embodiments Ris 3 7 membered heterocyclyl optionally substituted with Calkyl or halogen or heteroaryl optionally substituted with Calkyl or Chydroxyalkyl Ar is phenyl optionally substituted by 1 or 2 groups independently selected from the group consisting of Chaloalkyl Calkoxy halogen Chaloalkoxy and cyano Ris selected from the group consisting of a Calkyl b Chaloalkyl c heterocyclyl or heterocyclyl Calkyl wherein said heterocycle or heterocyclyl Calkyl is selected from the group consisting of tetrahydropyranyl tetrahydrofuranyl and oxetanyl and wherein said heterocycle is optionally substituted by 1 to 3 groups independently selected from Calkyl Cacyloxy Calkyl halogen and Chydroxyalkyl d Ccycloalkyl or Ccycloalkyl Calkyl wherein said cycloalkyl is optionally substituted by hydroxyl e Cheteroalkyl and Ris hydrogen or F. In certain embodiments Ris 3 7 membered heterocyclyl optionally substituted with Calkyl or halogen or heteroaryl optionally substituted with Calkyl or Chydroxyalkyl Ar is phenyl substituted by 1 or 2 groups independently selected from Chaloalkyl Calkoxy halogen Chaloalkoxy and cyano Ris selected from the group consisting of a Calkyl b Chaloalkyl c tetrahydropyranyl tetrahydrofuranyl or oxetanyl optionally substituted with Calkyl Cacyloxy Calkyl halogen or Chydroxyalkyl d Ccycloalkyl or Ccycloalkyl Calkyl wherein said cycloalkyl is optionally substituted by hydroxyl and e Cheteroalkyl and Ris hydrogen or F.

In certain embodiments Ris 5 6 membered heteroaryl optionally substituted with Calkyl Chydroxyalkyl or halogen Ar is phenyl optionally substituted by 1 or 2 groups independently selected from Chaloalkyl Calkoxy halogen Chaloalkoxy and cyano Ris selected from the group consisting of a Calkyl b Chaloalkyl c heterocyclyl or heterocyclyl Calkyl wherein said heterocycle or heterocyclyl Calkyl is selected from the group consisting of tetrahydropyranyl tetrahydrofuranyl oxetanyl piperidinyl N Calkyl piperidinyl and N Calkyl 2 oxo pyrrolidinyl and wherein said heterocycle or heterocyclyl Calkyl is optionally substituted by 1 to 3 groups independently selected from Calkyl Cacyloxy Calkyl halogen and Chydroxyalkyl d Ccycloalkyl or Ccycloalkyl Calkyl wherein said cycloalkyl is optionally substituted by hydroxyl and e Cheteroalkyl and Ris hydrogen or F. In certain embodiments Ris 5 6 membered heteroaryl optionally substituted with Calkyl Chydroxyalkyl or halogen Ar is phenyl substituted by 1 or 2 groups independently selected from Chaloalkyl Calkoxy halogen Chaloalkoxy and cyano Ris selected from the group consisting of a Calkyl b Chaloalkyl c tetrahydropyranyl tetrahydrofuranyl or oxetanyl optionally substituted with halogen or Chydroxyalkyl d Ccycloalkyl or Ccycloalkyl Calkyl wherein said cycloalkyl is optionally substituted by hydroxyl and e Cheteroalkyl and Ris hydrogen or F. In certain embodiments Ris 5 6 membered heteroaryl optionally substituted with Calkyl Chydroxyalkyl or halogen Ar is phenyl substituted by 1 or 2 groups independently selected from Chaloalkyl Calkoxy halogen Chaloalkoxy and cyano Ris pyrazolyl wherein said pyrazolyl moiety is optionally substituted with one to three groups independently selected from the group consisting of Calkyl Chaloalkyl and halogen. In certain embodiments Ris 5 6 membered heteroaryl optionally substituted with Calkyl Chydroxyalkyl or halogen Ar is phenyl substituted by 1 or 2 groups independently selected from Chaloalkyl Calkoxy halogen Chaloalkoxy and cyano Ris 2 methylpyrazol 3 yl 2 5 dimethylpyrazol 3 yl or 1 3 dimethylpyrazol 4 yl and Ris hydrogen or F.

In certain embodiment Ris pyrazolyl optionally independently substituted with one to three groups selected from Calkyl Chydroxyalkyl and halogen Ar is phenyl substituted by 1 or 2 groups independently selected from Chaloalkyl Calkoxy halogen Chaloalkoxy and cyano Ris pyrazolyl wherein said pyrazolyl moiety is optionally substituted with one to three groups independently selected from Calkyl Chaloalkyl and halogen. In a subembodiment Ris pyrazolyl that is optionally substituted with one to three Calkyl groups. In another subembodiment Ris 2 methylpyrazol 3 yl 2 5 dimethylpyrazol 3 yl or 1 3 dimethylpyrazol 4 yl and Ris hydrogen or F.

In another embodiment there is provided a compound according to formula I which compound is selected from the group consisting of compounds I 1 to I 70 in TABLE I and compounds II 1 to II 54 in TABLE II or a stereoisomer tautomer or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof. In another embodiment there is provided a compound according to formula I which compound is selected from the group consisting of compounds I 1 to I 70 in TABLE I or a stereoisomer tautomer or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof. In another embodiment there is provided a compound according to formula I which compound is selected from the group consisting of compounds II 1 to II 54 in TABLE II or a stereoisomer tautomer or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.

In another embodiment there is provided a compound according to formula I or a stereoisomer tautomer or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof which compound is selected from the group consisting of 

In another embodiment there is provided a method of inhibiting ERK protein kinase activity in a cell comprising treating the cell with a compound according to formula I.

In another embodiment of the present invention there is provided a method of inhibiting ERK protein kinase activity in a patient in need thereof comprising the step of administering to said patient a compound according to formula I.

In another embodiment there is provided a method of treating or ameliorating the severity of a hyperproliferative disorder in a patient in need thereof comprising administering to said patient a compound according to formula I.

In another embodiment there is provided a method of treating or ameliorating the severity of a hyperproliferative disorder in a patient in need thereof wherein said hyperproliferative disorder is selected from the group consisting of adenoma bladder cancer brain cancer breast cancer colon cancer epidermal carcinoma follicular carcinoma cancer of the genitourinary tract glioblastoma Hodgkin s disease head and neck cancers hepatoma keratoacanthoma kidney cancer large cell carcinoma leukemias lung adenocarcinoma lung cancer lymphoid disorders melanoma and non melanoma skin cancer myelodysplastic syndrome neuroblastoma non Hodgkins lymphoma ovarian cancer papillary carcinoma pancreatic cancer prostate cancer rectal cancer sarcoma small cell carcinoma testicular cancer tetracarcinomas thyroid cancer and undifferentiated carcinoma comprising administering to said patient a compound according to formula I.

In another embodiment there is provided a method of treating or ameliorating the severity of a hyperproliferative disorder in a patient in need thereof comprising co administering to said patient a compound according to formula I with at least one other chemotherapeutic agent used to treat or ameliorate a hyperproliferative disorder.

In another embodiment there is provided a use of a compound of formula I in the manufacture of a medicament for the treatment of a hyperproliferative disease.

In another embodiment there is provided a compound of formula I for the treatment of a hyperproliferative disease.

In another embodiment there is provided a composition containing a compound according to formula I with at least one carrier diluent or excipient.

In another embodiment of the present invention there is provided a compound of formula I for use as a medicament. In another embodiment of the present invention there is provided a compound selected from TABLE 1 for use as a medicament.

In another embodiment of the present invention there is provided the use of a compound of formula I for the manufacture of a medicament. In another embodiment of the present invention there is provided the use of a compound selected from TABLE 1 for the manufacture of a medicament.

In another embodiment of the present invention there is provided a compound of formula I for use in therapy.

In another embodiment of the present invention there is provided a compound of formula I for use in the treatment of a hyperproliferative disease.

In another embodiment of the present invention there is provided a pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound of formula I for use in the treatment of a hyperproliferative disease.

Commonly used abbreviations include acetyl Ac aqueous aq. atmospheres Atm 2 2 bis diphenylphosphino 1 1 binaphthyl BINAP tert butoxycarbonyl Boc di tert butyl pyrocarbonate or boc anhydride BOCO benzyl Bn butyl Bu Chemical Abstracts Registration Number CASRN benzyloxycarbonyl CBZ or Z carbonyl diimidazole CDI days d 1 5 diazabicyclo 4.3.0 non 5 ene DBN 1 8 diazabicyclo 5.4.0 undec 7 ene DBU N N dicyclohexylcarbodiimide DCC 1 2 dichloroethane DCE dichloromethane DCM diethyl azodicarboxylate DEAD di iso propylazodicarboxylate DIAD di iso butylaluminumhydride DIBAL or DIBAL H di iso propylethylamine DIPEA diphenylphosphoryl azide DPPA N N dimethyl acetamide DMA 4 N N dimethylaminopyridine DMAP N N dimethylformamide DMF dimethyl sulfoxide DMSO 1 3 dimethylaminopropyl 3 ethylcarbodiimide hydrochloride EDCI ethyl Et ethyl acetate EtOAc ethanol EtOH 2 ethoxy 2H quinoline 1 carboxylic acid ethyl ester EEDQ diethyl ether EtO O 7 azabenzotriazole 1 yl N hours h N N N tetramethyluronium hexafluorophosphate acetic acid HATU acetic acid HOAc 1 hydroxy 7 aza benzotriazole HOAt 1 N hydroxybenzotriazole HOBt high pressure liquid chromatography HPLC iso propanol IPA lithium diisopropylamide LDA methanol MeOH melting point mp MeSO mesyl or Ms methyl Me acetonitrile MeCN m chloroperbenzoic acid MCPBA minutes min mass spectrum ms methyl tert butyl ether MTBE N methylmorpholine NMM N methylpyrrolidone NMP phenyl Ph propyl Pr iso propyl i Pr pounds per square inch psi pyridine pyr room temperature rt or RT saturated satd. tert butyldimethylsilyl or t BuMeSi TBDMS tetrabutyl ammonium fluoride TBAF triethylamine TEA or EtN triflate or CFSO Tf trifluoroacetic acid TFA O benzotriazol 1 yl N N N N tetramethyluronium tetrafluoroborate TBTU thin layer chromatography TLC tetrahydrofuran THF tetramethylethylenediamine TMEDA trimethylsilyl or MeSi TMS p toluenesulfonic acid monohydrate TsOH or pTsOH 4 Me CHSO or tosyl Ts N urethane N carboxyanhydride UNCA . Conventional nomenclature including the prefixes normal n iso i secondary sec tertiary tert and neo have their customary meaning when used with an alkyl moiety. J. Rigaudy and D. P. Klesney Nomenclature in Organic Chemistry IUPAC 1979 Pergamon Press Oxford. .

Examples of representative compounds within the scope of the invention are provided in the following Table. These examples and preparations which follow are provided to enable those skilled in the art to more clearly understand and to practice the present invention. They should not be considered as limiting the scope of the invention but merely as being illustrative and representative thereof.

If there is a discrepancy between a depicted structure and a name given that structure the depicted structure is to be accorded more weight. In addition if the stereochemistry of a structure or a portion of a structure is not indicated with for example bold or dashed lines the structure or portion of the structure is to be interpreted as encompassing all stereoisomers of it. The following numbering system is used herein.

Other representative compounds within the scope of the present invention are compiled in TABLE II. These examples are illustrative and should not be considered as limiting the scope of the invention but merely as representative thereof. Compounds in TABLE II are prepared using methodology extensively described in the Examples which follow and are fully enabled.

Compounds of the present invention can be made by a variety of methods depicted in the illustrative synthetic reaction schemes shown and described below. The starting materials and reagents used in preparing these compounds generally are either available from commercial suppliers such as Sigma Aldrich Chemical Co. or are prepared by methods known to those skilled in the art. Generally applicable synthetic procedures have been described in treatises are set forth in references such as Wiley Sons New York Volumes 1 21 R. C. LaRock 2nd edition Wiley VCH New York 1999 B. Trost and I. Fleming Eds. vol. 1 9 Pergamon Oxford 1991 A. R. Katritzky and C. W. Rees Eds Pergamon Oxford 1984 vol. 1 9 A. R. Katritzky and C. W. Rees Eds Pergamon Oxford 1996 vol. 1 11 and Wiley Sons New York 1991 Volumes 1 40. The following synthetic reaction schemes are merely illustrative of some methods by which the compounds of the present invention can be synthesized and various modifications to these synthetic reaction schemes can be made and will be suggested to one skilled in the art having referred to the disclosure contained in this Application.

The starting materials and the intermediates of the synthetic reaction schemes can be isolated and purified if desired using conventional techniques. Typically such separations involve multiphase extraction crystallization from a solvent or solvent mixture distillation sublimation or chromatography. Chromatography can involve any number of methods including for example chiral reverse phase and normal phases size exclusion ion exchange high medium and low pressure liquid chromatography methods and apparatus small scale analytical simulated moving bed SMB and preparative thin or thick layer chromatography as well as techniques of small scale thin layer and flash chromatography. Such materials can be characterized using conventional means including physical constants and spectral data.

Unless specified to the contrary the reactions described herein preferably are conducted under an inert atmosphere at atmospheric pressure at a reaction temperature range of from about 78 C. to about 150 C. more preferably from about 0 C. to about 125 C. and most preferably and conveniently at about room or ambient temperature e.g. about 20 C.

In the methods of preparing the compounds of this invention it may be advantageous to separate reaction products from one another and or from starting materials. The desired products of each step or series of steps is separated and or purified hereinafter separated to the desired degree of homogeneity by the techniques common in the art.

Selection of appropriate methods of separation depends on the nature of the materials involved. For example boiling point and molecular weight in distillation and sublimation presence or absence of polar functional groups in chromatography stability of materials in acidic and basic media in multiphase extraction and the like. One skilled in the art will apply techniques most likely to achieve the desired separation.

Diastereomeric mixtures can be separated into their individual diastereomers on the basis of their physical chemical differences by methods well known to those skilled in the art such as by chromatography and or fractional crystallization. Enantiomers can be separated by converting the enantiomeric mixture into a diastereomeric mixture by reaction with an appropriate optically active compound e.g. chiral auxiliary such as a chiral alcohol or Mosher s acid chloride separating the diastereomers and converting e.g. hydrolyzing the individual diastereoisomers to the corresponding pure enantiomers. Enantiomers can also be separated by use of a chiral HPLC column.

A single stereoisomer e.g. an enantiomer substantially free of its stereoisomer may be obtained by resolution of the racemic mixture using a method such as formation of diastereomers using optically active resolving agents Eliel E. and Wilen S. Stereochemistry of Organic Compounds John Wiley Sons Inc. New York 1994 Lochmuller C. H. 1975 113 3 283 302 . Racemic mixtures of chiral compounds of the invention can be separated and isolated by any suitable method including 1 formation of ionic diastereomeric salts with chiral compounds and separation by fractional crystallization or other methods 2 converting the enantiomeric mixture into a diastereomeric mixture by reaction with an appropriate optically active compound e.g. chiral auxiliary such as a chiral alcohol or Mosher s acid chloride separating the diastereomers and converting e.g. hydrolyzing the individual diastereoisomers to the corresponding pure enantiomers and 3 separation of the substantially pure or enriched stereoisomers directly under chiral conditions see e.g. Irving W. Wainer Ed. Marcel Dekker Inc. New York 1993 .

Under method 1 diastereomeric salts can be formed by reaction of enantiomerically pure chiral bases such as brucine quinine ephedrine strychnine methyl phenylethylamine amphetamine and the like with asymmetric compounds bearing acidic functionality such as carboxylic acid and sulfonic acid. The diastereomeric salts may be induced to separate by fractional crystallization or ionic chromatography. For separation of the optical isomers of amino compounds addition of chiral carboxylic or sulfonic acids such as camphorsulfonic acid tartaric acid mandelic acid or lactic acid can result in formation of the diastereomeric salts.

Alternatively by method 2 the substrate to be resolved is reacted with one enantiomer of a chiral compound to form a diastereomeric pair E. Eliel and S. Wilen John Wiley Sons Inc. 1994 p. 322 . Diastereomeric compounds can be formed by reacting asymmetric compounds with enantiomerically pure chiral derivatizing reagents such as menthyl derivatives followed by separation of the diastereomers and hydrolysis to yield the pure or enriched enantiomer. A method of determining optical purity involves making chiral esters such as a menthyl ester e.g. menthyl chloroformate in the presence of base or Mosher ester methoxy trifluoromethyl phenyl acetate Jacob III. 1982 47 4165 of the racemic mixture and analyzing the H NMR spectrum for the presence of the two atropisomeric enantiomers or diastereomers. Stable diastereomers of atropisomeric compounds can be separated and isolated by normal and reverse phase chromatography following methods for separation of atropisomeric naphthyl isoquinolines WO 96 15111 . By method 3 a racemic mixture of two enantiomers can be separated by chromatography using a chiral stationary phase Chiral Liquid Chromatography 1989 W. J. Lough Ed. Chapman and Hall New York Okamoto 1990 513 375 378 . Enriched or purified enantiomers can be distinguished by methods used to distinguish other chiral molecules with asymmetric carbon atoms such as optical rotation and circular dichroism.

Racemic mixtures can be separated by supercritical fluid chromatography using a Mettler Toledo MG II chromatograph using a 5 m AS H SFC 21.2 250 mm column or AD H SFC column using MeOH or IPA containing 0.1 TFA as a cosolvent. Typical conditions include a flow rate of 50 mL min a column temperature of 40 C. Run time was typically 5 to 10 min.

Some compounds in the following schemes are depicted with generalized substituents however one skilled in the art will immediately appreciate that the nature of the R groups can be varied to afford the various compounds contemplated in this invention. Moreover the reaction conditions are exemplary and alternative conditions are well known. The reaction sequences in the following examples are not meant to limit the scope of the invention as set forth in the claims.

A subset of compounds disclosed herein can be prepared from methyl 2 chloro quinazoline 7 carboxylate A 1 L. Huang et al. WO2007 125405 as shown in SCHEME A. Introduction of the desired amine at the 2 position to afford A 2a is accomplished by direct displacement utilizing an SAr reaction with heating. Subsequent hydrolysis of the methyl ester with hydroxide affords the carboxylic acid A 2b which can be further elaborated using standard peptide coupling protocols to introduce the amide linkage.

Alternatively introduction of primary or secondary amines by replacement of a leaving group on a hetero aryl ring can be accomplished by Buchwald Hartwig palladium catalyzed cross coupling of an amine and A 1 J. P. Wolfe and S. L. Buchwald 2000 65 1144 1157 and 1998 31 805 818 J. P. Wolfe et al. 2000 65 1158 J. F. Hartwig 1998 37 2046 2067 . Typical conditions include Pd dppf Clin the presence of base e.g. sodium tert butoxide or CsCO and aprotic solvent. Typical leaving groups include halogens and triflates and optimum leaving groups will depend on the precise reactant.

Other compounds disclosed herein are prepared from 5 fluoro 2 tetrahydro 2H pyran 4 ylamino quinazoline 7 carboxylic acid B 3b as described in SCHEME B. 2 6 Difluoro 4 chloro benzaldehyde was converted to the 2 aminoquinazoline B 2a by condensation with guanidine bis carbonate. This aminoquinazoline is then converted to the 2 bromo quinazoline B 2b with antimony tribromide and tert butyl nitrite in CBr. Displacement of the bromide of B 2b with tetrahydro 2H pyran 4 amine afforded B 2c. One skilled in the art will appreciate that the reaction can be carried out with the requisite amines to afford other quinazolines within the scope of the invention. The 7 carboxy substituent is introduced via a palladium catalyzed carboxylation using potassium 2 ethoxy 2 oxoacetate as the source of the carboxyl group to afford the quinazoline ester B 3a. Subsequent hydrolysis of the ester with hydroxide affords the carboxylic acid B 3b which can be further converted to amides using standard coupling protocols. Alternatively 4 bromo 2 6 difluorobenzaldehyde is cyclized with guanidine bis carbonate to afford B 5 which can then be subject to similar functional group transformations albeit in a different sequence. Carbonylation to introduce the methoxy carbonyl step 7 precedes introduction of the cyclopropylmethylamine steps 8 and 9 . Hydrolysis of the ester affords the substituted quinazoline analogous to B 3b.

The amine A 4 may be prepared as described in SCHEME C where aryl heteroaryl amines C 3 may be prepared by steps 1 through 2 and aryl heterocyclyl amines C 6 may be prepared by steps 3 through 7. The requisite aryl heteroaryl amines A 4 C 3 R pyrazolyl triazolyl oxadiazolyl oxazolyl or isoxazolyl which are optionally chiral can be prepared using the general method depicted in steps 1 and 2 of SCHEME C. Addition of an aryl Grignard or aryl lithium reagent to the N tert butylsulfinyl imines C 2 afforded amines A 4 C 3 after hydrolysis of the intermediate sulfinamides. Chiral amines are prepared by addition of an aryl Grignard or lithium to a chiral sulfinamide. D. A. Cogan et al. 1999 55 8883 8904 . The sulfinyl imines are in turn available from the large pool of aldehydes which can be easily prepared or purchased.

The requisite aryl heterocyclyl amines A 4 C 6 Ar optionally substituted phenyl can be prepared from the corresponding heterocyclyl carboxylic acid. Conversion of the N Boc proline C 4a to the N methyl N methoxyamide C 4b and addition of an aryl lithium affords C 4c. C 4c may be reduced with R 1 methyl 3 3 diphenylhexahydropyrrolo 1 2 c 1 3 2 oxazaborole and borane diethylaniline A.M. Salunkhe and E. R. Burkhardt 1997 38 9 1523 1526 and 38 9 1519 1522 and E. J. Corey et al. 1987 109 5551 . The conversion of the alcohol to the amine A 4 C 6 is accomplished via the Gabriel synthesis under Mitsunobu conditions to introduce the phthalimide moiety which can be removed with hydrazine steps 6 7 .

Mitsunobu conditions D. L. Hughes The Mitsunobu Reaction in Organic Reactions Volume 42 1992 John Wiley Sons New York pp. 335 656 comprise activating alcohols with a mixture of a phosphine such as a trialkylphosphine like tributylphosphine n Bu P triphenylphosphine PhP and the like and a diazo compound like DEAD DIAD or di tert butyl azodicarboxylate in an inert solvent. Commonly used solvents include but are not limited to THF toluene and DCM. There is no particular limitation on the nature of the solvent to be employed provided that it has no adverse effect on the reaction or the reagents involved and that it can dissolve the reagents at least to some extent. The reaction can take place over a wide range of temperatures ranging from ambient temperatures to the reflux temperature of the solvent employed

Condensation of the quinazolines A 2b or B 3b and the amine A 4 was carried out with activated esters using known protocols. Activated carboxylic acids include acid chlorides or symmetrical or mixed acid anhydrides which react with amines in a solvent such as DMF DCM THF with or without water as a co solvent at temperatures between 0 C. and 60 C. generally in the presence of a base such as NaCO NaHCO KCO DIPEA TEA or pyridine. Carboxylic acids are converted into their acid chlorides using standard reagents well known to someone skilled in the art such as thionyl chloride oxalyl chloride phosphoryl chloride and the like. Those reagents can be used in presence of bases such as DIPEA TEA or pyridine.

Alternatively a carboxylic acid can be converted in situ into activated acids by treating the carboxylic acid with EDC DCC BOP PyBrOP or 2 fluoro 1 methylpyridinium p toluenesulphonate Mukaiyama s reagent and the like optionally in the presence of modifiers such as HOBt with or without a base such as NMM TEA or DIPEA in an inert solvent such as DMF or DCM at temperatures between 0 C. and 60 C. The reaction may alternatively be carried out in presence of HATU or HOAt and TEA or DIPEA in DMF DCM or THF. Acylation of amines has been reviewed J. March supra pp. 417 425 H. G. Benz Synthesis of Amides and Related Compounds in Comprehensive Organic Synthesis E. Winterfeldt ed. vol. 6 Pergamon Press Oxford 1991 pp. 381 411 see R. C. Larock Comprehensive Organic Transformations A Guide to Functional Group Preparations 1989 VCH Publishers Inc. New York pp. 972 976 .

The SCHEMES described above provide general procedures which have been applied to compounds encompassed in the present invention. The examples which follow contain additional details which are useful to introduce the various structural features found in specific compounds.

Determination of the ERK activity of a compound of formula I is possible by a number of direct and indirect detection methods. Certain exemplary compounds described herein were assayed for their ERK inhibitory activity Example 7 . The range of ERK binding activities was less than 1 nM nanomolar to about 10 M micromolar . A cell based function assay Example 9 was used to determine the effect of ERK inhibitors on down stream signaling by assaying phosphorylation of P90RSK.

The cytotoxic or cytostatic activity of formula I exemplary compounds was measured by establishing a proliferating mammalian tumor cell line in a cell culture medium adding a formula I compound culturing the cells for a period from about 6 h to about 5 d and measuring cell viability Example 8 . Cell based in vitro assays were used to measure viability i.e. proliferation IC cytotoxicity EC .

The present invention provides pharmaceutical compositions or medicaments containing the compounds of the invention and at least one therapeutically inert carrier diluent or excipient as well as methods of using the compounds of the invention to prepare such compositions and medicaments. In one example compounds of Formula I with the desired degree of purity may be formulated by mixing with physiologically acceptable carriers i.e. carriers that are non toxic to recipients at the dosages and concentrations employed into a dosage form at ambient temperature and at the appropriate pH. The pH of the formulation depends mainly on the particular use and the concentration of compound but typically ranges anywhere from about 3 to about 8. In one example a compound of Formula I is formulated in an acetate buffer at pH 5. In another embodiment the compounds of Formula I are sterile. The compound may be stored for example as a solid or amorphous composition as a lyophilized formulation or as an aqueous solution.

Compositions are formulated dosed and administered in a fashion consistent with good medical practice. Factors for consideration in this context include the particular disorder being treated the severity of the disorder the particular patient being treated the clinical condition of the individual patient the cause of the disorder the site of delivery of the agent the method of administration the scheduling of administration and other factors known to medical practitioners. The effective amount of the compound to be administered will be governed by such considerations and is the minimum amount necessary to inhibit ERK activity. Typically such amount may be below the amount that is toxic to normal cells or the patient as a whole.

The pharmaceutical composition or formulation for application may be packaged in a variety of ways depending upon the method used for administering the drug. Generally an article for distribution includes a container having deposited therein the pharmaceutical formulation in an appropriate form. Suitable containers are well known to those skilled in the art and include materials such as bottles plastic and glass sachets ampoules plastic bags metal cylinders and the like. The container may also include a tamper proof assemblage to prevent indiscreet access to the contents of the package. In addition the container has deposited thereon a label that describes the contents of the container. The label may also include appropriate warnings.

Sustained release preparations may be prepared. Suitable examples of sustained release preparations include semipermeable matrices of solid hydrophobic polymers containing a compound of Formula I which matrices are in the form of shaped articles e.g. films or microcapsules. Examples of sustained release matrices include polyesters hydrogels for example poly 2 hydroxyethyl methacrylate or poly vinylalcohol polylactides copolymers of L glutamic acid and gamma ethyl L glutamate non degradable ethylene vinyl acetate degradable lactic acid glycolic acid copolymers such as the LUPRON DEPOT injectable microspheres composed of lactic acid glycolic acid copolymer and leuprolide acetate and poly D 3 hydroxybutyric acid.

A dose to treat human patients may range from about 0.1 mg to about 1000 mg of a compound of formula I. A typical dose may be about 1 mg to about 300 mg of the compound. A dose may be administered once a day QD twice per day BID or more frequently depending on the pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic properties including absorption distribution metabolism and excretion of the particular compound. In addition toxicity factors may influence the dosage and administration regimen. When administered orally the pill capsule or tablet may be ingested daily or less frequently for a specified period of time. The regimen may be repeated for a number of cycles of therapy.

The compounds of the invention may be administered by any suitable means including oral topical including buccal and sublingual rectal vaginal transdermal parenteral subcutaneous intraperitoneal intrapulmonary intradermal intrathecal epidural and intranasal and if desired for local treatment intralesional administration. Parenteral infusions include intramuscular intravenous intraarterial intraperitoneal or subcutaneous administration.

The compounds of the present invention may be administered in any convenient administrative form e.g. tablets powders capsules solutions dispersions suspensions syrups sprays suppositories gels emulsions patches etc. Such compositions may contain components conventional in pharmaceutical preparations e.g. diluents carriers pH modifiers sweeteners bulking agents and further active agents.

A typical formulation is prepared by mixing a compound of the present invention and a carrier or excipient. Suitable carriers and excipients are well known to those skilled in the art and are described in detail in e.g. Ansel H. C. et al. Ansel s . Philadelphia Lippincott Williams Wilkins 2004 Gennaro Alfonso R. et al. . Philadelphia Lippincott Williams Wilkins 2000 and Rowe R. C. Chicago Pharmaceutical Press 2005. The formulations may also include one or more buffers stabilizing agents surfactants wetting agents lubricating agents emulsifiers suspending agents preservatives antioxidants opaquing agents glidants processing aids colorants sweeteners perfuming agents flavoring agents diluents and other known additives to provide an elegant presentation of the drug i.e. a compound of the present invention or pharmaceutical composition thereof or aid in the manufacturing of the pharmaceutical product i.e. medicament .

For oral administration tablets containing various excipients such as citric acid may be employed together with various disintegrants such as starch alginic acid and certain complex silicates and with binding agents such as sucrose gelatin and acacia. Additionally lubricating agents such as magnesium stearate sodium lauryl sulfate and talc are often useful for tableting purposes. Solid compositions of a similar type may also be employed in soft and hard filled gelatin capsules. Preferred materials therefore include lactose or milk sugar and high molecular weight polyethylene glycols. When aqueous suspensions or elixirs are desired for oral administration the active compound therein may be combined with various sweetening or flavoring agents coloring matters or dyes and if desired emulsifying agents or suspending agents together with diluents such as water ethanol propylene glycol glycerin or combinations thereof.

An example of a suitable oral dosage form is a tablet containing about 25 mg 50 mg 100 mg 250 mg or 500 mg of the compound of the invention compounded with about 90 30 mg anhydrous lactose about 5 40 mg sodium croscarmellose about 5 30 mg polyvinylpyrrolidone PVP K30 and about 1 10 mg magnesium stearate. The powdered ingredients are first mixed together and then mixed with a solution of the PVP. The resulting composition can be dried granulated mixed with the magnesium stearate and compressed to tablet form using conventional equipment.

In one embodiment the pharmaceutical composition also includes at least one additional anti proliferative agent.

An embodiment therefore includes a pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound of Formula I or a stereoisomer tautomer or pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof. A further embodiment includes a pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound of Formula I or a stereoisomer tautomer or pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof together with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or excipient.

The invention further provides veterinary compositions comprising at least one active ingredient as above defined together with a veterinary carrier therefore. Veterinary carriers are materials useful for the purpose of administering the composition and may be solid liquid or gaseous materials which are otherwise inert or acceptable in the veterinary art and are compatible with the active ingredient. These veterinary compositions may be administered parenterally orally or by any other desired route.

The compounds of formula I may be employed alone or in combination with other therapeutic agents for the treatment of a disease or disorder described herein such as a hyperproliferative disorder e.g. cancer . In certain embodiments a compound of formula I is combined in a pharmaceutical combination formulation or dosing regimen as combination therapy with a second compound that has anti hyperproliferative properties or that is useful for treating a hyperproliferative disorder e.g. cancer . The second compound of the pharmaceutical combination formulation or dosing regimen preferably has complementary activities to the compound of formula I such that they do not adversely affect each other. The combination therapy may provide synergy and prove synergistic i.e. the effect achieved when the active ingredients used together is greater than the sum of the effects that results from using the compounds separately.

The combination therapy may be administered as a simultaneous or sequential regimen. When administered sequentially the combination may be administered in two or more administrations. The combined administration includes co administration using separate formulations or a single pharmaceutical formulation and consecutive administration in either order wherein preferably there is a time period while both or all active agents simultaneously exert their biological activities.

Suitable dosages for any of the above co administered agents are those presently used and may be lowered due to the combined action synergy of the newly identified agent and other chemotherapeutic agents or treatments.

Combination therapies according to the present invention thus comprise the administration of at least one compound of formula I or a stereoisomer geometric isomer tautomer metabolite or pharmaceutically acceptable salt and the use of at least one other cancer treatment method. The amounts of the compound s of formula I and the other pharmaceutically active chemotherapeutic agent s and the relative timings of administration will be selected in order to achieve the desired combined therapeutic effect.

In another embodiment of the invention an article of manufacture or kit containing materials useful for the treatment of the diseases and disorders described above is provided. In one embodiment the kit comprises a container comprising a compound of formula I or a stereoisomer tautomer or pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof. The kit may further comprise a label or package insert on or associated with the container. The term package insert is used to refer to instructions customarily included in commercial packages of therapeutic products that contain information about the indications usage dosage administration contraindications and or warnings concerning the use of such therapeutic products. Suitable containers include for example bottles vials syringes blister pack etc. The container may be formed from a variety of materials such as glass or plastic. The container may hold a compound of formula I or a formulation thereof which is effective for treating the condition and may have a sterile access port for example the container may be an intravenous solution bag or a vial having a stopper pierceable by a hypodermic injection needle . At least one active agent in the composition is a compound of formula I. Alternatively or additionally the article of manufacture may further comprise a second container comprising a pharmaceutical diluent such as bacteriostatic water for injection BWFI phosphate buffered saline Ringer s solution and dextrose solution. It may further include other materials desirable from a commercial and user standpoint including other buffers diluents filters needles and syringes.

In another embodiment the kits are suitable for the delivery of solid oral forms of a compound of formula I such as tablets or capsules. Such a kit can include a number of unit dosages. An example of such a kit is a blister pack . Blister packs are well known in the packaging industry and are widely used for packaging pharmaceutical unit dosage forms.

According to one embodiment a kit may comprise a a first container with a compound of formula I contained therein and optionally b a second container with a second pharmaceutical formulation contained therein wherein the second pharmaceutical formulation comprises a second compound with anti hyperproliferative activity. Alternatively or additionally the kit may further comprise a third container comprising a pharmaceutically acceptable buffer such as bacteriostatic water for injection BWFI phosphate buffered saline Ringer s solution and dextrose solution. It may further include other materials desirable from a commercial and user standpoint including other buffers diluents filters needles and syringes.

The following examples illustrate the preparation and biological evaluation of compounds within the scope of the invention. These examples and preparations which follow are provided to enable those skilled in the art to more clearly understand and to practice the present invention. They should not be considered as limiting the scope of the invention but merely as being illustrative and representative thereof. The referential examples that follow illustrate procedures which prepare the amines required to assemble the ERK inhibitors encompassed in the present invention.

step 1 Oxazole 5 carbaldehyde 1.0 g 10.30 mmol 2 methylpropane 2 sulfinamide 2.247 g 18.54 mmol CASRN 146374 27 8 and tetraethoxytitanium 8.460 g 37.09 mmol were stirred in THF 15 mL and heated to 65 C. for 12 h under nitrogen. The reaction was cooled and poured onto water. The solids were filtered off and the filtrate was extracted with EtOAc. The layers were separated and the organic layer was dried MgSO filtered and concentrated. The resulting residue was purified by SiOchromatography eluting with an EtOAc hexane gradient 20 to 25 EtOAc to afford 1.211 g 58.7 of E 2 methyl N oxazol 5 ylmethylene propane 2 sulfinamide 20 .

step 2 A dried flask was charged with 20 1.211 g 6.047 mmol and toluene 5 mL was added. The reaction was stirred under nitrogen cooled to 78 C. and 3 4 dichlorophenyl magnesium bromide 18.14 mL 9.071 mmol 0.5M in THF was added. The reaction was then warmed to 10 C. for 15 min. Saturated ammonium chloride was added and the reaction was extracted with DCM. The organic layer was separated dried MgSO filtered and concentrated. The resulting residue was dissolved in DCM 10 mL then 4 N HCl in dioxane 15.12 mL 60.47 mmol was added and the solution was stirred for 30 min. The reaction mixture was added dropwise to a stirred solution of ether. The resulting solid was filtered and washed with ether to afford 1.24 g 73.3 of 3 4 dichlorophenyl oxazol 5 yl methanamine hydrochloride 22 .

 4 Chloro 3 fluorophenyl isoxazol 5 yl methanamine was prepared analogously except 5 isoxazolecarboxaldehyde CASRN 16401 14 2 was used in place of oxazole 5 carbaldehyde and 3 4 dichlorophenyl magnesium bromide was replaced with 4 chloro 3 fluorophenyl magnesium bromide 53 

 4 Chloro 3 fluoro phenyl 1 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 yl methylamine 32a was prepared analogously except oxazole 5 carbaldehyde was replaced with 1 methyl 1H pyrazole 3 carbaldehyde CASRN 27258 32 8 and 4 chloro 3 fluorophenyl magnesium bromide was used in place of 3 4 dichlorophenyl magnesium bromide in step 2. 4 Chloro 3 fluoro phenyl 1 ethyl 1H pyrazol 3 yl methylamine 32b was prepared analogously except oxazole 5 carbaldehyde was replaced with 1 ethyl 1H pyrazole 3 carbaldehyde CASRN 942319 16 6 .

 4 Chloro 3 fluorophenyl 2 methyl 2H 1 2 3 triazol 4 yl methanamine 34a 3 chloro 4 fluorophenyl 2 methyl 2H 1 2 3 triazol 4 yl methanamine 34b and 3 fluoro 4 methoxyphenyl 2 methyl 2H 1 2 3 triazol 4 yl methanamine 34c were prepared analogously from 2 methyl 2H 1 2 3 triazole 4 carbaldehyde CASRN 1104078 88 7 using 4 chloro 3 fluorophenyl magnesium bromide 3 chloro 4 fluorophenyl magnesium bromide and 3 fluoro 4 methoxyphenyl magnesium bromide respectively.

 4 Chloro 3 fluorophenyl 1 2 4 oxadiazol 5 yl methanamine was prepared analogously starting from 1 2 4 oxadiazole 5 carbaldehyde CASRN 1083274 35 4 .

step 1 N 1H Pyrazol 4 yl methylene 2 methylpropane 2 sulfinamide 36 was prepared from 1H pyrazole 4 carbaldehyde in accord with the procedure in step 1 of Referential Example 1.

step 2 To a solution of 36 1.47 g 7.378 mmol BocO 1.932 g 8.852 mmol and TEA 2.056 mL 14.75 mmol in MeCN 30 mL at RT under nitrogen was added DMAP 0.09012 g 0.7377 mmol and the resulting solution was stirred for 1 h. Water was added and the reaction was extracted with ether. The organic layer was separated dried MgSO filtered and concentrated. The crude residue was purified by SiOchromatography eluting with 40 EtOAc hexane to afford 2.14 g 96.9 of E tert butyl 4 tert butylsulfinylimino methyl 1H pyrazole 1 carboxylate 38 .

step 3 4 Chloro 3 fluorophenyl 1H pyrazol 4 yl methanamine 40b was prepared as described in step 2 of referential example 1 except 3 4 dichlorophenyl magnesium bromide was replaced with 4 chloro 3 fluorophenyl magnesium bromide.

One skilled in the art will appreciate that both S 2 methylpropane 2 sulfinamide CASRN 343338 28 3 and R 2 methylpropane 2 sulfinamide CASRN 196929 78 9 are commercially available and provide a stereoselective route to either enantiomer e.g. S 3 fluoro 4 methoxyphenyl 1 methyl 1H pyrazol 4 yl methanamine 40f .

 4 Chloro 3 fluorophenyl 1 methyl 1H pyrazol 4 yl methanamine 40c and 4 chloro 3 fluorophenyl 1 ethyl 1H pyrazol 4 yl methanamine 40d were prepared analogously from 1 methyl 1 H pyrazol 4 carboxaldehyde and 1 ethyl 1 H pyrazol 4 carboxaldehyde respectively as described in referential example 1. 3 Fluoro 4 methoxyphenyl 1 methyl 1H pyrazol 4 yl methanamine 40e and 3 chloro 4 methoxyphenyl 1 methyl 1H pyrazol 4 yl methanamine 40f were prepared analogously from 1 methyl 1H pyrazol 4 carboxaldehyde and 3 fluoro 4 methoxyphenyl magnesium bromide or 3 chloro 4 methoxyphenyl magnesium bromide respectively. S 4 Difluoromethoxy phenyl 1 methyl 1H pyrazol 4 yl methanamine 40 g S 4 amino 1 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 yl methyl 2 fluorobenzonitrile 40 h and S 4 amino 1 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 yl methyl 2 chlorobenzonitrile 40i were prepared analogously from 1 methyl 1H pyrazol 4 carboxaldehyde and 4 difluoromethoxyphenyl magnesium bromide 4 cyano 3 fluorophenyl magnesium bromide and 3 chloro 4 cyanophenyl magnesium bromide respectively. S 3 Fluoro 4 methoxyphenyl 2 methyl 2H 1 2 3 triazol 4 yl methanamine 40k was prepared analogously from 2 methyl 2H 1 2 3 triazole 4 carbaldehyde and 3 fluoro 4 methoxyphenyl magnesium bromide. S 3 Fluoro 4 methoxyphenyl 1 methyl 1H pyrazol 4 yl methanamine 40l was prepared analogously from 1 methyl 1 H pyrazol 4 carboxaldehyde and 3 chloro 4 fluorophenyl magnesium bromide as described above. 5 Amino 1 methyl 1H pyrazol 4 yl methyl 2 methoxy benzonitrile 40m was prepared analogously from 1 methyl 1 H pyrazol 4 carboxaldehyde and 3 cyano 4 methoxyphenyl magnesium bromide. 3 Chloro 4 fluorophenyl 1 methyl 1H pyrazol 4 yl methanamine 40n was prepared analogously from 1 methyl 1 H pyrazol 4 carboxaldehyde and 3 chloro 4 fluorophenyl magnesium bromide.

step 1 R tert butyl 2 methoxy methyl carbamoyl pyrrolidine 1 carboxylate. To a stirred solution of 42a 11.93 g 55.42 mmol and DCM 70 mL cooled to 15 C. under nitrogen was added a solution of NMM 5.79 g 57.3 mmol ethyl carbonochloridate 12.03 g 110.8 mmol and DCM 50 mL and the mixture was stirred for 15 min. Additional NMM 11.59 g 114.5 mmol was added followed by portionwise addition of O N dimethylhydroxylamine hydrochloride 10.81 g 110.8 mmol . The reaction was stirred at RT for 18 h. The reaction was poured onto water and extracted with DCM. The organic layer was dried MgSO filtered and concentrated and the crude residue was purified by SiOchromatography eluting with EtOAc hexane 1 1 to afford 9.74 g 68.03 of 42b.

step 2 R tert butyl 2 3 fluoro 4 trifluoromethyl benzoyl pyrrolidine 1 carboxylate. To a stirred solution of 4 bromo 2 fluoro 1 trifluoromethyl benzene 4.854 g 19.98 mmol and ether 50 mL cooled to 78 C. under nitrogen was added n butyl lithium 7.99 mL 19.98 mmol slowly over 10 min. The reaction was transferred via cannula to a solution of 42b 4.30 g 16.65 mmol in THF 50 mL cooled to 78 C. The reaction was stirred for 10 min after all aryl lithium was added. The reaction was quenched with water and extracted with DCM. The organic layer was dried MgSO concentrated and the crude product purified by SiOchromatography eluting with an EtOAc hexane gradient 1 to 5 EtOAc . A close running impurity was not removed by this purification. The compound was further purified on a SP4 reverse phase column chromatography eluting with MeCN water gradient 65 to 100 MeCN to afford 2.105 g 33.2 of 44.

step 3 R tert butyl 2 R 3 fluoro 4 trifluoromethyl phenyl hydroxy methyl pyrrolidine 1 carboxylate. To a stirred solution of 44 1.797 g 4.973 mmol in MeOH 50 mL under nitrogen and cooled to 0 C. was added NaBH 188.2 mg 4.973 mmol and the reaction was stirred at 0 C. for 1 h. Ice was slowly added and the resulting mixture was stirred for 10 min. The mixture was extracted with DCM dried MgSO and concentrated to afford 1.8 g quantitative yield of crude 46a which was used without further purification.

step 4 R tert Butyl 2 S 1 3 dioxoisoindolin 2 yl 3 fluoro 4 trifluoromethyl phenyl methyl pyrrolidine 1 carboxylate 46a 1.807 g 4.973 mmol was placed in THF 50 mL and cooled to 0 C. Isoindoline 1 3 dione 0.8049 g 5.471 mmol and PPh 1.957 g 7.460 mmol were added followed by the drop wise addition of DEAD 2.937 mL 7.460 mmol . The reaction was then allowed to warm to RT stir for 20 h and was then concentrated to dryness. Ether 300 mL was then added and the resulting solid was filtered and discarded. The filtrate was then poured into water and extracted with DCM. The combined organic fractions were dried MgSO filtered and concentrated to give the crude product which was purified by SiOchromatography to give 1.036 g 42.30 yield of 46b.

step 5 2R tert butyl 2 S amino 3 fluoro 4 trifluoromethyl phenyl methyl pyrolidine 1 carboxylate. 46b 1.036 g 2.104 mmol was placed in 1 1 THF MeOH 50 mL . Hydrazine monohydrate 1.053 g 21.04 mmol was then added and the reaction was stirred at RT for 48 h. The reaction was then diluted with THF and filtered. The solid hydrazine byproduct was discarded. The filtrate was concentrated and purified by column chromatography eluting with a MeOH DCM gradient 1 4 MeOH to afford 596 mg 78 of 47a.

 R tert butyl 2 S amino 4 chloro 3 fluorophenyl methyl pyrrolidine 1 carboxylate 47b and R tert butyl 2 S amino 3 fluoro 4 methoxyphenyl methyl pyrrolidine 1 carboxylate 47c can be prepared analogously except in step 1 42a is replaced by 1 bromo 4 chloro 3 fluoro benzene and 4 bromo 2 fluoro 1 methoxy benzene respectively.

 2R 5R 5 Methyl pyrrolidine 2 carboxylic acid was prepared in accord with the procedure described by F. A. Davis et al. 2001 3 5 759 762 and converted to 2R 5R tert butyl 2 S amino 4 chloro 3 fluorophenyl methyl 5 methylpyrrolidine 1 carboxylate 48 as described hereinabove.

 2R 4S 4 Fluoropyrrolidine 2 carboxylic acid was converted to 2R 4S tert butyl 2 S amino 3 fluoro 4 methoxyphenyl methyl 4 fluoropyrrolidine 1 carboxylate 49 as described hereinabove.

step 1 R 4 benzyl 3 2 3 fluoro 4 trifluoromethyl phenyl acetyl oxazolidin 2 one 50b . To a solution of 50a 16.8 g 75.6 mmol in ether 150 mL cooled to 0 C. was added slowly DIPEA 13.2 mL 75.6 mmol followed by trimethylacetyl chloride 9.31 mL 75.6 mmol . The mixture was agitated at 0 C. for 1 h and filtered and the solids were washed with ether 100 mL . The filtrate was then cooled to 78 C. Meanwhile R 4 benzyl 2 oxazolidinone 13.4 g 75.6 mmol in THF 150 mL was cooled to 78 C. and a 2.5 M hexane solution of butyl lithium 30.3 mL 75.6 mmol was added slowly. The mixture was agitated for 15 min at 78 C. and transferred by cannula to the solution of the mixed anhydride. The resulting solution was agitated at 78 C. for 15 min allowed to warm up to 0 C. and agitated an additional 30 min. The reaction was quenched with saturated NHCl 50 mL diluted with EtOAc 500 mL and washed sequentially with water aqueous NaHCOand brine dried MgSO and evaporated. The solidified residue 30 g was recrystallized from EtOH ca. 150 mL to afford 13.0 g 45.1 of 50b as crystalline solid.

step 2 tert butyl 2 methoxypyrrolidine 1 carboxylate 51b . To a solution of 51a 20.0 g 107.98 mmol in dry EtO 250 mL cooled to 78 C. was added portionwise 1M DIBAL H solution in toluene 73.426 mL 110.14 mmol . The mixture was stirred for 1 h at 78 C. then allowed to warm to RT and stirred overnight. The reaction mixture was cooled to 0 C. and saturated NHCl 50 mL was added followed by 1M Rochelle s Salt solution 300 mL . The mixture was transferred to a 2 L Erlenmeyer flask more ether was added and it was stirred vigorously for 1 h emulsion loosens and separates over this time . The mixture was transferred to a separatory funnel the aqueous solution was drained and the organics were washed with Rochelle s Salt solution and brine dried NaSO filtered and concentrated. The resulting oil was then concentrated one time from MeOH. The resulting oil was dissolved in MeOH 250 mL and p TsOH monohydrate 1.0270 g 5.3990 mmol was added. The reaction mixture was stirred for 48 h at RT. The mixture was concentrated and the residue was taken up in DCM 300 mL and this solution was poured into saturated NaHCO 300 mL . The mixture was extracted with DCM and the combined organic layers were dried NaSO filtered and concentrated to afford 20.09 g 92 of 51b as an oil.

step 3 S tert butyl 5 S 2 R 4 benzyl 2 oxooxazolidin 3 yl 1 3 fluoro 4 trifluoromethyl phenyl 2 oxoethyl 2 2 dimethylpyrrolidine 1 carboxylate 52 . To a solution of 50b 2.00 g 5.24 mmol in DCM 25 mL cooled to 78 C. was added slowly a TiCl 5.51 mL 5.51 mmol 1M solution in toluene followed by drop wise addition of DIPEA 0.959 mL 5.51 mmol . The resulting deep purple mixture was agitated at 78 C. for 15 min. A solution of 51b 1.38 g 6.03 mmol in DCM 5 mL was added and the mixture was agitated for 15 min at 78 C. and then allowed to warm up over 1 h. The reaction was quenched with NHCl 20 mL diluted with DCM 250 mL washed sequentially with water aqueous NaHCO dried MgSO and evaporated to a thick oil. The crude product was purified by SiOchromatography eluting with 15 EtOAc hexane to afford 1.69 g 55.7 of 52 as foamy solid.

step 4 S 2 S 1 tert butoxycarbonyl pyrrolidin 2 yl 2 3 fluoro 4 trifluoromethyl phenyl acetic acid 57 . To a solution of THF 100 mL water 50 mL and 1M LiOH 5.70 mL 5.70 mmol cooled to 0 C. was added HO 0.728 mL 7.13 mmol and the mixture was agitated for 10 min. A solution of 52 1.65 g 2.85 mmol in THF 20 mL was added and the mixture was allowed to warm to RT and agitate overnight. 1M NaSO 20 mL was added and the mixture was agitated for 15 minutes. The mixture was acidified with 2M KHSO and brine 100 mL was added. The aqueous phase was separated and extracted twice with EtOAc. The combined organics were washed with brine dried MgSO filtered and evaporated. The crude product was purified by SiOchromatography Flash 40L eluting with 20 EtOAc hexane containing 1 HOAc to afford 1.0 g 83.6 of 57 as a solid.

step 5 S tert butyl 2 S benzyloxy carbonyl amino 3 fluoro 4 trifluoromethyl phenyl methyl pyrrolidine 1 carboxylate 61 . To a solution of DIPEA 0.598 mL 3.43 mmol diphenylphosphoryl azide 0.591 mL 2.74 mmol and toluene 15 mL was added 57 0.895 g 2.29 mmol . After agitating for 30 min the mixture was heated to 100 C. and agitated for 3 h. The mixture was then cooled to 70 C. and benzyl alcohol 2 mL 18.5 mmol was added and the mixture stirred overnight. After evaporating to dryness the crude product was purified by SiOchromatography eluting with an EtOAc hexane gradient 10 to 20 EtOAc to afford 1.04 g 88 of 61 as a solid.

step 6 S tert butyl 2 S amino 3 fluoro 4 trifluoromethyl phenyl methyl pyrrolidine 1 carboxylate 63 . To a solution of 61 1.04 g 2.09 mmol and EtOH 25 mL was added Pd C 10 Degussa wet 0.5 g . The mixture was hydrogenated overnight under balloon pressure. The mixture was then filtered and evaporated to afford 0.52 g 68.5 of 63 as thick oil.

 S tert Butyl 2 S amino 4 chloro 3 fluorophenyl methyl pyrrolidine 1 carboxylate 65 can be prepared analogously except in step 1 3 fluoro 4 trifluoromethyl phenylacetic acid 50a is replaced by 3 fluoro 4 chlorophenyl acetic acid.

step 1 3S tert butyl 3 3 chloro 4 fluorophenyl hydroxy methyl pyrrolidine 1 carboxylate 69a 69b . To a stirred solution of S tert butyl 3 formylpyrrolidine 1 carboxylate 67 367.3 mg 1.843 mmol in THF 9.2 mL 0.2 M under nitrogen atmosphere cooled to 0 C. and degassed with Nwas added dropwise a THF solution of 3 chloro 4 fluorophenyl magnesium bromide 4056 L . mmol and the solution stirred at 0 C. for 3 h. The reaction was then quenched by addition of water 3 mL THF was removed by rotovap and the mixture was extracted with EtOAc 2 30 mL . The combined organics were washed with water 2 30 mL and brine 1 30 mL . The organic extracts were dried NaSO filtered and concentrated. The crude product was loaded onto an SP1 samplet and purified by chromatography eluting a DCM acetone gradient 2 to 45 acetone to afford 364 mg 60 of 69a 69b as an approximate 1 1 mixture of diastereomers as a clear oil which was used without additional purification.

step 2 3S tert butyl 3 3 chloro 4 fluorophenyl 1 3 dioxoisoindolin 2 yl methyl pyrrolidine 1 carboxylate 71a 71b . To a solution of 69a 69b 364.3 mg 1.105 mmol in THF 5.5 mL 0.2 M under nitrogen was added phthalimide 178.8 mg 1.215 mmol and PPh 376.7 mg 1.436 mmol . The reaction was cooled to 0 C. and diethyl azodicarboxylate 654.0 L 1.436 mmol was added dropwise via syringe. The reaction was allowed to warm to RT and stirred for 16 h. The reaction was concentrated to dryness by rotovap diluted to 30 mL with EtOAc and washed with water 2 30 mL and brine 1 30 mL . The organics were isolated dried NaSO filtered and concentrated. The crude product was purified by SiOchromatography eluting with a hexanes acetone gradient 5 to 70 acetone to afford 212 mg 42 of 71a 71b as a clear oil containing approximately a 1 1 mixture of diastereomers.

step 3 S tert butyl 3 amino 3 chloro 4 fluorophenyl methyl pyrrolidine 1 carboxylate 73a 73b . A solution of 71a 71b 212.3 mg 0.4626 mmol in 1 1 THF MeOH 2.3 mL 0.2 M was treated with hydrazine monohydrate 224.4 L 4.626 mmol and heated to 60 C. overnight. The reaction was cooled to RT and the solids were filtered off. The filtrate was concentrated to dryness and taken up in EtOAc 30 mL . The EtOAc solution was washed with saturated NaHCO 2 30 mL and brine 1 30 mL . The organics were isolated dried NaSO filtered and concentrated. The crude product was purified by SiOchromatography eluting with a 1 25 gradient of MeOH 3 NHOH in DCM to afford 110 mg 72 of 73a 73b as a clear oil containing approximately a 1 1 mixture of diastereomers.

 R tert Butyl 3 amino 3 chloro 4 fluorophenyl methyl pyrrolidine 1 carboxylate 75a 75b can be prepared analogously except in step 1 R tert butyl 3 formylpyrrolidine 1 carboxylate is substituted for S tert butyl 3 formylpyrrolidine 1 carboxylate 67 .

step 1 To a stirred solution of 1 chloromethyl 4 fluoro 1 4 diazoniabicyclo 2.2.2 octane bis tetrafluoroborate 147 g 414 mmol Selectfluor in MeCN HO 1 1 800 mL cooled to 0 C. under nitrogen in a 3 L round bottom flask was added dropwise a solution of 56 45.0 g 394 mmol CASRN 17327 22 9 in MeCN 120 mL . The reaction was stirred for 30 min. in an ice bath before the bath was removed and the reaction was stirred for an additional 1 h. Solid NaCl 200 g was then added to the reaction along with DCM 300 mL . A saturated NaCOsolution was added slowly until pH was 10. The mixture was transferred into a 4 L sep. funnel and thrice extracted into DCM. The aqueous layer was then placed in a continuous liquid liquid extractor with DCM and heated to 58 C. for 18 h. The combined organic extracts were dried MgSO filtered and concentrated at 20 C. on the rotovap. The crude product was purified by SiOchromatography eluting with DCM MeOH gradient 500 3 to 500 5 DCM MeOH to afford 30 g 64.4 of 3 fluorodihydro 2H pyran 4 3H one 58 .

step 2 To a solution of 58 30 g 254 mmol and DCE 800 mL cooled to 0 C. under nitrogen was added phenylmethanamine 29.8 mL 267 mmol and the solution was stirred for 10 min. To the reaction mixture was added NaBH OAc 75.4 g 356 mmol followed by the dropwise addition of glacial HOAc 14.5 mL 254 mmol . The reaction was stirred for 2 h and then poured into 1M NaOH and extracted with DCM. The combined organic fractions were dried MgSO filtered and concentrated. The crude product was purified by reverse phase column chromatography using a MeCN HO gradient 0 to 40 MeCN to afford 39 g 73.4 of the racemic cis product 3S 4S and 3R 4R N benzyl 3 fluorotetrahydro 2H pyran 4 amine 60a and 60b respectively .

The enantiomers can be separated by chromatography on a Chiralpak IC 5 25 cm column eluting with 10 IPA 0.1 NHOH 90 COat a flow rate of 300 mL min and a temperature of 40 C. The back pressure was 100 Bar.

step 3 To a solution of 60a 3.7 g 18 mmol and MeOH 40 mL at RT was added Pd C 3.8 g 1.8 mmol and the resulting suspension stirred under Hfor 18 h. The catalyst was filtered washed with MeOH. The solvent was concentrated to afford 2.1 g 100 3S 4S 3 fluorotetrahydro 2H pyran 4 amine 60c HNMR 400 MHz CDCl 4.58 4.44 m 1H 4.19 4.09 m 1H 4.05 3.95 m 1H 3.56 3.38 m 2H 2.96 2.84 m 1H 1.88 1.77 m 1H 1.72 1.65 m 1H The enantiomer 3R 4R 3 fluorotetrahydro 2H pyran 4 amine 60d can be prepared analogously by repacing 60a with 60b.

step 1 To a stirred solution of 58 34.58 g 292.8 mmol and THF 350 mL cooled to 78 C. under nitrogen was added drop wise L selectride 307.4 mL 307.4 mmol and the reaction was stirred for 30 min. MeOH 35.58 mL 878.4 mmol and 1M NaOH 878.4 mL 878.4 mmol were then added and the reaction was allowed to warm to 0 C. To the solution was added dropwise with care HO 99.59 mL 1464 mmol and the reaction was stirred for an additional 30 min. Saturated brine 50 mL was then added and the reaction was concentrated to remove THF. The solution was diluted with DCM 500 mL and transferred to a liquid liquid continuous extractor which was heated at 58 C. for 24 h. The organic fraction was then separated dried MgSO filtered and concentrated. The crude product was purified by SiOchromatography eluting with a DCM EtOAc gradient 5 1 to 3 1 to afford 21 g 60.2 of the racemic cis product 3R 4S and 3S 4R 3 fluorotetrahydro 2H pyran 4 ol 62a and 62b respectively .

step 2 To a stirred solution of 62a and 62b 15.0 g 125 mmol isoindoline 1 3 dione 20.2 g 137 mmol and 2 diphenylphosphino pyridine 42.7 g 162 mmol and THF 550 mL cooled to 0 C. under nitrogen was added E di tert butyl diazene 1 2 dicarboxylate 37.4 g 162 mmol and the reaction stirred at RT for 24 h. To the reaction mixture was added 4M HCl in dioxane 156 mL 624 mmol and the resulting solution stirred for 2 h then concentrated to dryness. The residue was dissolved in ether and washed six times with 4M HCl. The solids that did not dissolve in ether were set aside for later purification batch 1 . The organic solution was then dried MgSO filtered and concentrated. The crude material was suspended in THF and filtered giving solid product batch 2 . The filtrate was next concentrated re suspended in DCM and filtered. The solid was discarded. The filtrate was combined with the first two batches of solids batches 1 and 2 concentrated and purified by SiOchromatography eluting with a DCM MeOH gradient 500 2 to 500 5 to afford 14 g 45 of racemic 2 3S 4R and 3R 4S 3 fluorotetrahydro 2H pyran 4 yl isoindoline 1 3 dione 64a and 64b respectively .

The enantiomers were separated by chromatography on a Chiralpak IA 5 25 cm column eluting with 10 MeOH DCM 1 1 90 COat a flow rate of 300 mL min and a temperature of 40 C. The back pressure was 100 Bar.

step 3 To a solution of 64b 8.4 g 34 mmol and THF MeOH 1 1 160 mL was added hydrazine monohydrate 17 g 337 mmol and the reaction was stirred at 50 C. for 6 h then cooled to RT for 24 h. The resulting mixture was filtered and the solid washed with THF. The filtrate was concentrated and the crude product was purified by SiOchromatography eluting with a DCM MeOH gradient 500 20 to 500 25 to afford 4.0 g 100 of 3R 4S 3 fluorotetrahydro 2H pyran 4 amine 66a HNMR 400 MHz CDCl 4.28 4.04 m 2H 3.94 3.85 m 1H 3.45 3.35 m 1H 3.30 3.20 m 1H 3.05 2.92 m 1H 1.97 1.88 m 1H 1.58 1.48 m 1H . The other enantiomer 3R 4S 3 fluorotetrahydro 2H pyran 4 amine 66b was prepared analogously from 64b.

 S 1 tert butyldiphenylsilyloxy propan 2 amine 67 To a stirred solution of S 2 aminopropan 1 ol 3.0 g 39.9 mmol and DCM 20 mL at RT under nitrogen was added TEA 11.1 mL 79.9 mmol and DMAP 0.488 g 3.99 mmol and the resulting solution stirred for 10 min. tert Butyldiphenylsilyl chloride 12.1 g 43.9 mmol was added and the reaction was stirred for 18 h then poured into water and extracted with DCM. The combined organic fractions were dried MgSO filtered and concentrated to afford a crude product that was purified by SiOchromatography eluting with 10 MeOH DCM to afford 9.5 g 75.9 of 67.

step 1 A stirred solution of methyl 2 chloroquinazoline 7 carboxylate A 1 3.0 g 13 mmol 67 5.1 g 16 mmol DBU 4.1 g 27 mmol and MeCN 30 mL under nitrogen was heated to 60 C. for 18 h. The reaction was then cooled to RT and poured into water and extracted with DCM. The combined organic fractions were dried MgSO filtered and concentrated to afford a crude product that was purified by SiOchromatography eluting with 1 MeOH MeOH to afford 5.1 g 76 of 68a.

step 2 To a stirred solution of 68a 5.0 g 10 mmol and THF 10 mL g at RT was added TBAF 12 mL 12 mmol 1M solution in THF and the reaction was stirred at RT for 1 h then poured into HO and extracted with DCM. The combined organic fractions were dried MgSO filtered and concentrated. The crude product was purified by SiOchromatography eluting with a MeOH DCM gradient 1 to 3 MeOH to afford 2.5 g 96 of 68b.

step 3 To a stirred solution of 68b 2.5 g 9.6 mmol and THF 50 mL was added MeOH 10 mL followed by 1M NaOH 38 mL 38 mmol and the resulting mixture was stirred at RT for 1 h. The reaction was then concentrated and acidified to pH 2 with 1M HCl which afforded a yellow precipitate that was filtered washed with water and then ether and dried to afford 1.6 g 68 of S 2 1 hydroxypropan 2 ylamino quinazoline 7 carboxylic acid 70 .

step 4 To a stirred solution of the hydrochloride salt of 40c 140 mg 0.506 mmol and DIPEA 88.1 L 0.506 mmol and DMF 5 mL under nitrogen was added 70 125 mg 0.506 mmol and HBTU 211 mg 0.556 mmol and the reaction was stirred at RT for 18 h. The reaction was poured into water and extracted with EtOAc. The combined extracts were dried MgSO and evaporated and the crude material was purified by reverse phase chromatography SP4 eluting with a MeCN HO gradient 10 to 95 MeCN to afford 83.5 mg 35.2 of N 4 chloro 3 fluorophenyl 1 methyl 1H pyrazol 4 yl methyl 2 S 1 hydroxypropan 2 ylamino quinazoline 7 carboxamide I 1 .

2 Isopropylamino quinazoline 7 carboxylic acid 69a S 2 1 1 1 trifluoropropan 2 ylamino quinazoline 7 carboxylic acid 69b R 2 1 cyclopropylethylamino quinazoline 7 carboxylic acid 69c 2 3S 4S 3 fluorotetrahydro 2H pyran 4 ylamino quinazoline 7 carboxylic acid 69d 2 3R 4S 3 fluorotetrahydro 2H pyran 4 ylamino quinazoline 7 carboxylic acid 69e and 2 tetrahydro 2H pyran 4 ylamino quinazoline 7 carboxylic acid 69f 3R 4R 3 fluorotetrahydro 2H pyran 4 ylamino quinazoline 7 carboxylic acid 69g and 2 3R 4S 3 fluorotetrahydro 2H pyran 4 ylamino quinazoline 7 carboxylic acid 69h were prepared analogously using steps 1 and 3 except 67 was replaced with iso propyl amine S 1 1 1 trifluoropropan 2 amine R 1 cyclopropylethanamine 60c 66a 4 amino tetrahydropyran 60d and 66b respectively.

2 Tetrahydro pyran 4 ylamino quinazoline 7 carboxylic acid 4 chloro 3 fluoro phenyl 1 methyl 1H pyrazol 4 yl methyl amide I 2 2 tetrahydropyran 4 ylamino quinazoline 7 carboxylic acid 4 chloro 3 fluoro phenyl 1 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 yl methyl amide I 4 N 4 chloro 3 fluorophenyl 1 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 yl methyl 2 S 1 hydroxypropan 2 ylamino quinazoline 7 carboxamide I 6 2 tetrahydropyran 4 ylamino quinazoline 7 carboxylic acid S 4 chloro 3 fluoro phenyl 1 methyl 1H pyrazol 4 yl methyl amide I 12 2 tetrahydropyran 4 ylamino quinazoline 7 carboxylic acid R 4 chloro 3 fluoro phenyl 1 methyl 1H pyrazol 4 yl methyl amide I 13 2 S 2 hydroxy 1 methyl ethylamino quinazoline 7 carboxylic acid R 4 chloro 3 fluoro phenyl 1 methyl 1H pyrazol 4 yl methyl amide I 14 2 S 2 hydroxy 1 methyl ethylamino quinazoline 7 carboxylic acid S 4 chloro 3 fluoro phenyl 1 methyl 1H pyrazol 4 yl methyl amide I 15 2 tetrahydropyran 4 ylamino quinazoline 7 carboxylic acid R 4 chloro 3 fluoro phenyl 1 ethyl 1 H pyrazol 3 yl methyl amide I 18 2 tetrahydropyran 4 ylamino quinazoline 7 carboxylic acid S 4 chloro 3 fluoro phenyl 1 ethyl 1H pyrazol 3 yl methyl amide I 19 2 tetrahydropyran 4 ylamino quinazoline 7 carboxylic acid S 4 chloro 3 fluoro phenyl 1 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 yl methyl amide I 20 2 tetrahydropyran 4 ylamino quinazoline 7 carboxylic acid R 4 chloro 3 fluoro phenyl 1 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 yl methyl amide I 21 2 3R 4R 3 fluoro tetrahydropyran 4 ylamino quinazoline 7 carboxylic acid S 4 chloro 3 fluoro phenyl 1 methyl 1H pyrazol 4 yl methyl amide I 27 2 3S 4S 3 fluoro tetrahydropyran 4 ylamino quinazoline 7 carboxylic acid S 4 chloro 3 fluoro phenyl 1 methyl 1H pyrazol 4 yl methyl amide I 28 2 3R 4S 3 fluoro tetrahydropyran 4 ylamino quinazoline 7 carboxylic acid S 4 chloro 3 fluoro phenyl 1 methyl 1H pyrazol 4 yl methyl amide I 29 2 3S 4R 3 fluoro tetrahydropyran 4 ylamino quinazoline 7 carboxylic acid S 4 chloro 3 fluoro phenyl 1 methyl 1H pyrazol 4 yl methyl amide I 30 2 tetrahydropyran 4 ylamino quinazoline 7 carboxylic acid S 3 fluoro 4 methoxy phenyl 1 methyl 1H pyrazol 4 yl methyl amide I 32 2 tetrahydro pyran 4 ylamino quinazoline 7 carboxylic acid 4 chloro 3 fluoro phenyl 1 2 4 oxadiazol 5 yl methyl amide I 34 2 tetrahydropyran 4 ylamino quinazoline 7 carboxylic acid S 4 difluoromethoxy phenyl 1 methyl 1H pyrazol 4 yl methyl amide I 41 2 tetrahydro pyran 4 ylamino quinazoline 7 carboxylic acid S 3 chloro 4 methoxy phenyl 1 methyl 1H pyrazol 4 yl methyl amide I 44 2 tetrahydro pyran 4 ylamino quinazoline 7 carboxylic acid R 4 cyano 3 fluoro phenyl 1 methyl 1H pyrazol 4 yl methyl amide I 45 R N 3 chloro 4 cyanophenyl 1 methyl 1H pyrazol 4 yl methyl 2 tetrahydro 2H pyran 4 ylamino quinazoline 7 carboxamide I 48 R N 3 cyano 4 methoxyphenyl 1 methyl 1H pyrazol 4 yl methyl 2 tetrahydro 2H pyran 4 ylamino quinazoline 7 carboxamide I 49 and S N 3 chloro 4 cyanophenyl 1 methyl 1H pyrazol 4 yl methyl 2 tetrahydro 2H pyran 4 ylamino quinazoline 7 carboxamide I 50 were prepared analogously from the appropriate 2 substituted quinazoline 7 carboxylic acid and the appropriate amine.

One skilled in the art will appreciate that the compounds can be either administered as racemic mixtures or resolved enantiomers. The enantiomers can be prepared by resolution of the racemates on chiral HPLC support for example using a Chiral Tech IC column 4.6 mm 250 mm eluting with EtOH hexane at a flow rate of 1 mL min. Alternately the amines can be prepared by chiral synthesis using chiral N tert butylsulfinyl imines C 2 affording chiral amines. Coupling of the chiral amines affords the pure enantiomers directly.

2 Substituted quinazoline 7 carboxylic acid wherein the 2 amino substituent is enantiomerically pure form when condensed with a racemic amine result in a diastereomeric mixture which can be separated using standard SiOor reverse phase chromatography.

2 Tetrahydro pyran 4 ylamino quinazoline 7 carboxylic acid S 3 chloro 4 fluoro phenyl 1 methyl 1H pyrazol 4 yl methyl amide I 55 was prepared analogously from 69f and S 40n.

2 Tetrahydro pyran 4 ylamino quinazoline 7 carboxylic acid 3 cyano 4 methoxy phenyl 1 methyl 1H pyrazol 4 yl methyl amide I 56 was prepared analogously from 69f and S 40m.

step 1 A 0.3 M solution of methyl 2 fluoroacrylate 4.37 g 41.99 mmol and DCM 140 mL was stirred under nitrogen and cooled to 0 C. The reaction mixture was then treated with N benzyl 1 methoxy N trimethylsilyl methyl methanamine 10.47 g 44.09 mmol followed by TFA 1.56 mL 20.99 mmol . The reaction mixture was warmed to RT and stirred for 16 h. The reaction mixture was then concentrated in vacuo. The crude product was purified by SiOBiotage chromatography hexanes acetone to afford 4.24 g 42.6 of methyl 1 benzyl 3 fluoropyrrolidine 3 carboxylate 72a H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 7.35 7.23 m 5H 3.72 s 3H 3.63 s 2H 2.97 2.80 m 3H 2.54 2.48 m 1H 2.43 2.30 m 1H 2.18 2.04 m 1H .

step 2 To a stirred solution of 72a 2.90 g 12.2 mmol EtOAc 61 mL and di tert butyl dicarbonate 3.20 g 14.7 mmol was added palladium hydroxide 1.72 g 1.22 mmol . The flask was degassed with Nthen the reaction mixture was sparged with Hgas for 5 min then stirred under an Hatmosphere at RT for 16 h under an Hfilled balloon. The suspension was filtered through glass microfibre filter gf f paper and then the filtrate was washed with water lx 60 mL and brine lx 60 mL dried NaSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The crude product was purified by SiOBiotage chromatography hexanes EtOAc to afford 2.90 g 96.0 of 72b 

step 3 To a solution of 72b 414.4 mg 1.676 mmol and 3 1 THF MeOH 5.6 mL was added 2.0 M aqueous KOH 2.1 mL 4.19 mmol and the solution stirred at RT for 2 h. The organic solvent was removed in vacuo and the residue diluted with 20 IPA DCM and then acidified to pH 3 with 1.0 M HCl. This mixture was twice extracted with 20 IPA DCM and combined extracts were twice washed with water dried NaSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo to afford 352.8 mg 90.3 of 74a. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 13.80 s 1H 3.69 3.54 m 3H 3.36 3.32 m 1H 2.43 2.24 m 2H 1.40 s 9H .

step 4 Preparation of tert butyl 3 fluoro 3 methoxy methyl carbamoyl pyrrolidine 1 carboxylate 74b from 74a can be accomplished in accord with the procedure in step 1 of referential example 3.

step 5 To a solution of 74b 410.2 mg 1.49 mmol and THF 7.4 mL cooled to 0 C. in an oven dried flask and degassed with Nwas added 3 chloro 4 fluorophenylmagnesium bromide 3.1 mL 1.56 mmol 0.5 M THF solution and the resulting solution stirred at 0 C. for 2 h. The reaction was quenched with water and concentrated in vacuo. The residue was twice extracted with EtOAc. The combined extracts were washed with water 2 and brine 1 dried NaSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The crude product was purified by SiOBiotage chromatography eluting with a hexanes EtOAc gradient to afford 218.4 mg 42.6 of 76 MS m z APCI pos M 1 100 246.1 248.1.

step 6 To a solution of 76 218.4 mg 0.632 mmol and MeOH 3.2 mL cooled to 0 C. was added NaBH 26.29 mg 0.695 mmol and stirred at 0 C. for 1 h. The reaction was diluted with a small amount of water and concentrated in vacuo. The residue was diluted with EtOAc and washed twice with water 2 then brine 1 dried NaSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The crude product was purified by SiOBiotage chromatography hexanes EtOAc to afford 194.9 mg 88.7 of tert butyl 3 3 chloro 4 fluorophenyl hydroxy methyl 3 fluoropyrrolidine 1 carboxylate 77 LC MS m z M 1 100 248.1 249.1.

step 7 To a solution of 77 194.9 mg 0.560 mmol and THF 5.6 mL cooled to 0 C. was added phthalimide 90.70 mg 0.616 mmol and PhP 191.1 mg 0.729 mmol . The reaction mixture was then treated with DEAD 331.8 L 0.729 mmol and warmed to RT and stirred for 16 h. The reaction mixture was concentrated in vacuo. The crude product was purified by SiOBiotage chromatography eluting with hexanes acetone to afford 238.5 mg 89.2 of tert butyl 3 3 chloro 4 fluorophenyl 1 3 dioxoisoindolin 2 yl methyl 3 fluoropyrrolidine 1 carboxylate 79 LC MS M 1 100 m z 377.0 379.0.

step 8 To a stirred solution of 79 238.5 mg 0.500 mmol and THF MeOH 5.0 mL 1 1 was added hydrazine monohydrate 242.6 L 5.001 mmol and the solution was heated to 60 C. for 16 h. The reaction was then cooled to RT and concentrated in vacuo. The residue was diluted with EtOAc and washed sequentially with water 1 NaHCO 1 and brine 1 dried NaSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo to afford 160.1 mg 92.3 of tert butyl 3 amino 3 chloro 4 fluorophenyl methyl 3 fluoropyrrolidine 1 carboxylate 78 .

step 9 A solution of 78 160.1 mg 0.462 mmol and DMF 2.3 mL was treated with 2 tetrahydro 2H pyran 4 ylamino quinazoline 7 carboxylic acid 69f 126.2 mg 0.462 mmol HATU 193.1 mg 0.508 mmol and DIPEA 160.8 L 0.923 mmol and stirred at RT for 16 h. The reaction mixture was diluted with EtOAc and thrice washed with water twice with NaHCO and once with brine dried NaSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The crude reaction mixture was then purified by SiOBiotage chromatography eluting with hexanes acetone. The isolated material was dissolved in DCM 2.0 mL and treated with 1 1 DCM TFA 1.0 mL and stirred at RT for 2 h. The solution was concentrated in vacuo diluted with NaHCOand twice extracted with EtOAc. The combined organics were washed twice with NaHCOand once with brine dried NaSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo to afford 125.8 mg 54.3 of I 16.

The enantiomers I 36 I 37 I 38 and I 39 were resolved by chromatography on a 4.6 50 mm 3 m Chiralpak IC column eluting with a mobile phase of 50 CO 50 MeOH 0.1 EtNH at a flow rate of 5 mL min and a 2 min runtime.

2 Tetrahydropyran 4 ylamino quinazoline 7 carboxylic acid S 3 fluoro 4 trifluoromethyl phenyl S pyrrolidin 2 yl methyl amide I 3 2 isopropylamino quinazoline 7 carboxylic acid S 3 fluoro 4 trifluoromethyl phenyl R pyrrolidin 2 yl methyl amide I5 2 tetrahydropyran 4 ylamino quinazoline 7 carboxylic acid S 3 fluoro 4 trifluoromethyl phenyl R pyrrolidin 2 yl methyl amide I 7 2 tetrahydropyran 4 ylamino quinazoline 7 carboxylic acid R 3 chloro 4 fluoro phenyl R pyrrolidin 3 yl methyl amide I 8 2 tetrahydropyran 4 ylamino quinazoline 7 carboxylic acid R 3 chloro 4 fluoro phenyl S pyrrolidin 3 yl methyl amide I 9 2 tetrahydropyran 4 ylamino quinazoline 7 carboxylic acid S 3 chloro 4 fluoro phenyl S pyrrolidin 3 yl methyl amide I 10 2 tetrahydropyran 4 ylamino quinazoline 7 carboxylic acid S 3 chloro 4 fluoro phenyl R pyrrolidin 3 yl methyl amide I 11 2 tetrahydropyran 4 ylamino quinazoline 7 carboxylic acid S 4 chloro 3 fluoro phenyl R pyrrolidin 2 yl methyl amide I 23 2 tetrahydropyran 4 ylamino quinazoline 7 carboxylic acid S 3 fluoro 4 methoxy phenyl R pyrrolidin 2 yl methyl amide I 24 2 R 1 cyclopropyl ethylamino quinazoline 7 carboxylic acid S 3 fluoro 4 methoxy phenyl R pyrrolidin 2 yl methyl amide I 26 2 tetrahydropyran 4 ylamino quinazoline 7 carboxylic acid S 3 fluoro 4 methoxy phenyl 2R 4S 4 fluoro pyrrolidin 2 yl methyl amide I 31 2 tetrahydropyran 4 ylamino quinazoline 7 carboxylic acid S 4 chloro 3 fluoro phenyl 2R 5R 5 methyl pyrrolidin 2 yl methyl amide I 35 and 2 S 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 methyl ethylamino quinazoline 7 carboxylic acid S 4 chloro 3 fluoro phenyl S pyrrolidin 2 yl methyl amide I 40 were prepared analogously from the appropriate 2 substitued quinazoline 2 carboxylic acid and the requisite amine.

2 Tetrahydropyran 4 ylamino quinazoline 7 carboxylic acid S 3 fluoro 4 trifluoromethyl phenyl R 1 methyl pyrrolidin 2 yl methyl amide I 17 was prepared by reductive amination of I 5 with NaHB OAc and paraformaldehyde. Reductive amination is preferably carried out carried out by combining an amine and carbonyl compound in the presence of a complex metal hydride such as sodium borohydride lithium borohydride sodium cyanoborohydride zinc borohydride sodium triacetoxyborohydride or borane pyridine conveniently at a pH of 1 7. Reductive amination procedures have been reviewed R. M. Hutchings and M. K. Hutchings col. 8 I. Fleming Ed Pergamon Oxford 1991 pp. 47 54.

One skilled in the art will appreciate that the compounds can be either administered as racemic mixtures or resolved enantiomers. The enantiomers can be prepared by resolution of the racemates on chiral HPLC support for example using a Chiral Tech IC column 4.6 mm 250 mm eluting with 40 EtOH hexane at a flow rate of 1 mL min. Alternately the amines can be prepared by chiral synthesis using utilizing R 1 methyl 3 3 diphenylhexahydropyrrolo 1 2 c 1 3 2 oxazaborole in place of an achiral hydride reducing agent. Coupling of the chiral amines affords the pure enantiomers directly. It also should be apparent when a chiral proline derivative is the starting material. The amine resulting from reduction with a chiral hydride is a pair of diastereomers which can be separated using standard SiOor reverse phase chromatography.

step 1 To a stirred suspension of 4 chloro 2 6 difluorobenzaldehyde 45 g 255 mmol in DMA 360 mL at room temperature under nitrogen was added guanidine bis carbonate 70.0 g 382 mmol . The mixture was heated to 140 C. for 3 hours. The reaction was then cooled to room temperature followed by addition of 400 mL water with stirring. The mixture was then filtered. The solids were then collected and triturated in 200 mL methanol for 10 minutes then filtered. These solids were then dried in vacuo to obtain 31.6 g 63 of 7 chloro 5 fluoroquinazolin 2 amine 82a as a brown solid.

step 2 To a stirred solution of 82a 20 g 101 mmol in dibromomethane 1012 mL 101 mmol at RT under Nwas added tribromostibine 73.2 g 202 mmol and the resulting solution stirred for 10 min. tert Butyl nitrite 48.2 mL 405 mmol was added and the reaction was immediately placed in 50 C. water bath and stirred for 13 h. The reaction was cooled to RT and the resulting precipitate was filtered and discarded. The filtrate was partitioned between DCM 2 L and HO 2 L . The biphasic mixture was filtered and the precipitate discarded. The organic layer was separated and loaded directly on a 1 kg SiOplug and eluted with DCM. The combined fractions containing product were concentrated in vacuo to a afford 13.4 g 51 of 82b as a light yellow solid.

step 3 To a stirred solution of tetrahydro 2H pyran 4 amine 14.8 g 146 mmol and TEA 10.2 mL 73.0 mmol in IPA 150 mL at RT in a capped high pressure reaction vessel was added 82b 13.4 g 48.7 mmol . The reaction was sealed under nitrogen and heated to 85 C. and stirred 2 h. After cooling to RT the precipitate was filtered and washed with IPA 150 mL . These precipitates were then dried in vacuo to afford 14.7 g 100 of 84a as a tan solid.

step 4 A stirred suspension of 84a 206 mg 0.695 mmol potassium 2 ethoxy 2 oxoacetate 163 mg 1.04 mmol Pd TFA 6.93 mg 0.0208 mmol 1 3 bis dicyclohexylphosphino propane bis tetrafluoroborate 25.5 mg 0.0417 mmol in NMP 2.3 mL under nitrogen was heated on an oil bath at 150 C. for 18 h. The reaction was then cooled to 50 C. and sodium hydroxide 1042 L 2.08 mmol was added and the mixture was stirred for 1 h. The reaction was cooled to RT and the reaction solution was loaded to a 50 g Biotage C18 reverse phase column and eluted with a HO MeOH gradient 0 to 100 MeOH . The fractions containing product were combined and 1 N HCl 2 mL was added and stirred for 2 min. The solution was concentrated in vacuo and the residue azeotroped with EtOH 100 mL to afford 175 mg 72 of 84b containing 1 mole equivalent NaCl as a brown solid.

step 5 To a stirred suspension of 84b 30 mg 0.086 mmol in DCM 1 mL under nitrogen at RT was added CDI 17 mg 0.10 mmol . After stirring for 1 h R tert butyl 2 S amino 3 fluoro 4 methoxyphenyl methyl pyrrolidine 1 carboxylate 47c 42 mg 0.13 mmol was added and stirred overnight. This solution was added directly to a SiOcolumn and eluted with a DCM EtOAc gradient 0 to 100 MeOH to afford 24 mg 47 of 86 as a yellow solid.

step 6 To a solution of 86 24 mg 0.040 mmol and DCM 0.3 mL was added 4M HCl dioxane 301 L 1.2 mmol . The reaction mixture was stirred for 1 h then concentrated in vacuo. The crude product was dissolved in DCM 2 mL and washed with satd. aq. NaHCO 1 mL The organic phase was isolated dried NaSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo to afford 20 mg 100 of 1 25.

5 Fluoro 2 2 methoxy ethylamino quinazoline 7 carboxylic acid 87a 5 fluoro 2 3 fluoro propylamino quinazoline 7 carboxylic acid 87b 2 cyclopropylmethyl amino 5 fluoro quinazoline 7 carboxylic acid 87c R 5 fluoro 2 tetrahydrofuran 3 ylamino quinazoline 7 carboxylic acid 87d S 5 fluoro 2 tetrahydrofuran 3 ylamino quinazoline 7 carboxylic acid 87e 5 fluoro 2 oxetan 3 ylmethyl amino quinazoline 7 carboxylic acid 87f and 5 fluoro 2 3 methyl oxetan 3 ylamino quinazoline 7 carboxylic acid 87 g were prepared analogously except in step 3 tetrahydro 2H pyran 4 amine was replaced with 2 methoxy ethylamine 3 fluoro propylamine cyclopropylmethyl amino S tetrahydro furan 3 yl amine R tetrahydro furan 3 yl amine oxetan 3 ylmethanamine and 3 methyl oxetan 3 ylamine respectively.

A solution of 84b 50 mg 0.17 mmol HBTU 72 mg 0.19 mmol DIPEA 90 L 0.51 mmol S 4 chloro 3 fluorophenyl 1 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 yl methanamine 32b 45 mg 0.19 mmol and DMF 1.5 mL at RT under nitrogen was stirred for 4 h. The mixture was then poured into HO 2 mL and extracted with DCM 5 mL . The organic fraction was dried MgSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The crude product was purified by SiOchromatography eluting with EtOAc to afford 51 mg 58 of I 22.

 S 5 Fluoro N 3 fluoro 4 methoxyphenyl 2 methyl 2H 1 2 3 triazol 4 yl methyl 2 tetrahydro 2H pyran 4 ylamino quinazoline 7 carboxamide I 51 was prepared analogously except 32b was replaced with 34c and 5 fluoro N S 3 fluoro 4 methoxyphenyl 1 methyl 1H pyrazol 4 yl methyl 2 3S 4S 3 fluorotetrahydro 2H pyran 4 ylamino quinazoline 7 carboxamide I 52 was prepared analogously except 84b was replaced with 5 fluoro 2 3S 4S 3 fluorotetrahydro 2H pyran 4 ylamino quinazoline 7 carboxamide which can be prepared in accord with the procedure in example 3 except in step 3 2H pyran 4 amine was replaced with 60c.

5 Fluoro 2 tetrahydro pyran 4 ylamino quinazoline 7 carboxylic acid 3 fluoro 4 methoxy phenyl 2 methyl 2H 1 2 3 triazol 4 yl methyl amide I 53 was prepared analogously except 32b was replaced with 34c.

5 Fluoro 2 tetrahydro pyran 4 ylamino quinazoline 7 carboxylic acid R 3 fluoro 4 methoxy phenyl 2 methyl 2H 1 2 3 triazol 4 yl methyl amide I 54 was prepared analogously except 32b was replaced with R 34c.

5 Fluoro 2 tetrahydro pyran 4 ylamino quinazoline 7 carboxylic acid S 3 chloro 4 cyano phenyl 1 methyl 1H pyrazol 4 yl methyl amide I 65 was prepared analogously except 32b was replaced with S 40i.

5 Fluoro 2 tetrahydro pyran 4 ylamino quinazoline 7 carboxylic acid S 3 chloro 4 methoxy phenyl 1 methyl 1H pyrazol 4 yl methyl amide I 66 was prepared analogously except 32b was replaced with S 40f.

5 Fluoro 2 2 methoxy ethylamino quinazoline 7 carboxylic acid S 3 fluoro 4 methoxy phenyl 1 methyl 1H pyrazol 4 yl methyl amide I 58 was prepared analogously except 32b was replaced with 40f and 84b was replaced with 87a.

5 Fluoro 2 3 fluoro propylamino quinazoline 7 carboxylic acid S 3 fluoro 4 methoxy phenyl 1 methyl 1H pyrazol 4 yl methyl amide I 59 was prepared analogously except 32b was replaced with 40f and 84b was replaced with 87b.

2 Cyclopropylmethyl amino 5 fluoro quinazoline 7 carboxylic acid S 3 fluoro 4 methoxy phenyl 1 methyl 1H pyrazol 4 yl methyl amide I 60 was prepared analogously except 32b was replaced with 40f and 84b was replaced with 87c.

5 Fluoro N S 3 fluoro 4 methoxyphenyl 1 methyl 1H pyrazol 4 yl methyl 2 R tetrahydrofuran 3 ylamino quinazoline 7 carboxamide I 61 was prepared analogously except 32b was replaced with 40f and 84b was replaced with 87d.

5 Fluoro N S 3 fluoro 4 methoxyphenyl 1 methyl 1H pyrazol 4 yl methyl 2 R tetrahydrofuran 3 ylamino quinazoline 7 carboxamide I 62 was prepared analogously except 32b was replaced with 40f and 84b was replaced with 87e.

5 Fluoro 2 oxetan 3 ylmethyl amino quinazoline 7 carboxylic acid S 3 fluoro 4 methoxy phenyl 1 methyl 1H pyrazol 4 yl methyl amide I 63 was prepared analogously except 32b was replaced with 40f and 84b was replaced with 87f.

5 Fluoro 2 3 methyl oxetan 3 ylamino quinazoline 7 carboxylic acid S 3 fluoro 4 methoxy phenyl 1 methyl 1H pyrazol 4 yl methyl amide I 64 was prepared analogously except 32b was replaced with 40f and 84b was replaced with 87 g.

A solution of 84b 62 g 21 mmol HBTU 8.9 g 23 mmol DIPEA 11 mL 64 mmol S 3 fluoro 4 methoxyphenyl 1 methyl 1H pyrazol 4 yl methanamine 40l 5.8 g 21 mmol and DMF 60 mL at RT under nitrogen was stirred for 5 h. The mixture was then poured into HO 120 mL and extracted with EtOAc 5 120 mL . The organic fractions were combined and dried MgSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The crude product was triturated with DCM followed by trituration with EtOAc to give 6.5 g 60 of I 33 as a yellow solid.

N S 4 chloro 3 fluorophenyl 1 methyl 1H pyrazol 4 yl methyl 2 2S 4R 2 hydroxymethyl tetrahydro 2H pyran 4 ylamino quinazoline 7 carboxamide I 47 

step 1 To a solution of 2S 4S 2 tert butyldimethylsilyloxy methyl 3 4 dihydro 2H pyran 4 ol 88 3.565 g 14.59 mmol prepared from 2R 3S 4R 2 hydroxymethyl 3 4 dihydro 2H pyran 3 4 diol according to the procedures in L. A. Paquette and J. A. Oplinger . 1988 53 2953 2959 and DCM 25 mL was added 4 molecular sieves 7 g followed by N methyl morpholine N oxide 3.418 g 29.17 mmol and tetrapropylammonium perruthenate 0.2563 g 0.7293 mmol . The reaction was stirred for 1.5 h at RT. The mixture was passed through a plug of SiOand eluted with DCM. The filtrate was concentrated and the resulting residue was purified by SiOchromatography eluting with 25 EtOAc hexane to afford 3.097 g 87.6 of 90.

step 2 A suspension of 90 3.097 g 12.78 mmol Pd C 0.5439 g 0.2555 mmol and EtOAc 30 mL and was stirred and maintained under hydrogen balloon pressure for 18 h. The reaction was filtered through a plug of Celite and concentrated. The resulting residue was purified by SiOchromatography eluting with 20 EtOAc hexane to afford 2.035 g 65.17 of 92.

step 3 To a solution of 92 1.885 g 7.713 mmol phenylmethanamine 0.9470 mL 8.484 mmol and DCE 40 mL was added NaBH OAc 2.288 g 10.80 mmol and the reaction stirred for 1 h. The reaction mixture was poured into water and extracted with DCM. The combined organic extracts were washed with NaHCO dried MgSO filtered and concentrated. The resulting residue was purified by SiOeluting with a DCM MeOH gradient 0 to 3 MeOH to afford 2S 4R N benzyl 2 tert butyldimethylsilyloxy methyl tetrahydro 2H pyran 4 amine 96a 1.686 g 65.15 yield and the trans 2S 4S N benzyl 2 tert butyldimethylsilyloxy methyl tetrahydro 2H pyran 4 amine 94a 1.04 g 40.18 yield .

step 4 To a solution of 94a 1.04 g 3.10 mmol and EtOH 20 mL was added Pd C 0.660 g 0.310 mmol and the reaction was stirred and maintained under balloon hydrogen pressure for 18 h. The mixture was filtered through a zap cap membrane filter. The filtrate was concentrated to afford 664 mg 87.3 of 94b which was used without further purification.

The conversion of 96a to 2S 4R 2 tert butyldimethylsilyloxy methyl tetrahydro 2H pyran 4 amine 96b was carried out analogously.

step 5 Condensation of 96b and A 1 can be carried out in accord with the procedure described in step 1 of example 1 to afford 98. Hydrolysis of the methyl ester step 6 removal of the silyl protecting group step 7 can be carried out as described in steps 2 and 3 of example 1. Condensation of 2 2S 4R 2 hydroxymethyl tetrahydro 2H pyran 4 ylamino quinazoline 7 carboxylic acid and S 4 chloro 3 fluorophenyl 1 methyl 1H pyrazol 4 yl methanamine 100 can be carried out in accord with the procedure in step 4 of example 1 to afford I 47.

2 2S 4R 2 Hydroxymethyl tetrahydro pyran 4 ylamino quinazoline 7 carboxylic acid S 3 fluoro 4 methoxy phenyl 1 methyl 1H pyrazol 4 yl methyl amide I 43 was prepared analogously except 100 was replaced with S 4 methoxy 3 fluorophenyl 1 methyl 1H pyrazol 4 yl methanamine.

2 2S 4S 2 hydroxymethyl tetrahydro pyran 4 ylamino quinazoline 7 carboxylic acid S 4 chloro 3 fluoro phenyl 1 methyl 1H pyrazol 4 yl methyl amide I 42 and N S 3 fluoro 4 methoxyphenyl 1 methyl 1H pyrazol 4 yl methyl 2 2S 4S 2 hydroxymethyl tetrahydro 2H pyran 4 ylamino quinazoline 7 carboxamide I 46 were prepared analogously except 96b was replaced with 94b and for the case of I 46 100 was replaced with S 40e.

Acetic acid 2S 4S 4 7 S 3 fluoro 4 methoxy phenyl 1 methyl 1H pyrazol 4 yl methyl carbamoyl quinazolin 2 ylamino tetrahydro pyran 2 ylmethyl ester I 57 cam be prepared be acetylation of I 46.

step 1 To a solution of 102 500 mg 2.50 mmol in THF 20 mL was added 3 fluoro 4 methoxyphenyl magnesium bromide 10 mL 25 mmol at 78 C. The resultant mixture was warmed to RT and stirred for 2 h. The reaction mixture was treated with NHCl 5 mL and thrice extracted with EtOAc 50 mL . The combined organic extracts were washed with brine 10 mL dried NaSO filtered and concentrated. The residue was purified by SiOchromatography eluting with EtOAc petroleum ether 1 2 to afford 600 mg 74 of 104a LC MS ESI m z 326 M H .

step 2 To the solution of 104a 350 mg 1.08 mmol in DMF 3.0 mL cooled to 0 C. was added NaH 47.0 mg 1.18 mmol . After stirring for 10 min 2 bromoethoxy tert butyl dimethylsilane 513 mg 2.15 mmol was added. The reaction mixture was warmed to RT and stirred for another 1.5 h. The reaction was quenched with water 1.0 mL and extracted with EtOAc 3 10 mL . The combined organic extracts were washed with brine 5 mL dried NaSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The residue was purified by SiOchromatography eluting with EtOAc petroleum ether 1 10 to afford 400 mg 77 of 104b as a white solid LC MS ESI m z 484 M H .

step 3 A solution of 104b 400 mg 0.830 mmol in ca. 0.2 N HCl in EtOAc 20 mL and MeOH 1.0 mL was stirred at RT for 2 h. The solid 106 178 mg 71 yield was collected by filtration and was used without further purification LC MS ESI m z 266 M H .

step 4 A mixture of 106 64 mg 0.22 mmol 69f 40 mg 0.15 mmol and HATU 89 mg 0.23 mmol in DMF 4.0 mL and TEA 1.0 mL was stirred at RT for 3 h. The mixture was diluted with EtOAc 100 mL washed with water 3 10 mL dried NaSO filtered and concentrated. The residue was purified by Prep HPLC to give the 13 mg 17 of I 67 as a yellow solid.

step 6 SCHEME B A 20 L 4 necked round bottom flask was purged and maintained with a nitrogen atmosphere then charged with 4 bromo 2 6 difluorobenzaldehyde 730 g 3.30 mol 1.00 equiv DMA 8 L followed by the addition of guanidinium carbonate 476 g 2.64 mol 0.80 equiv . The resulting solution was stirred at 140 C. for 4 h cooled to 30 C. and diluted with 5 L of water ice with stirring for 30 min. The resulting solids were collected by filtration washed with 2 3 L of water and stirred in MeOH 3 L for 30 min. The solids were collected by filtration and dried in a vacuum oven to afford 660 g 83 of 7 bromo 5 fluoroquinazolin 2 amine as a yellow solid H NMR 400 MHz DMSO 9.23 s 1H 7.45 s 1H 7.27 s 2H 7.26 d J 10 Hz 1H . LCMS MH 242.1 244.1

step 7 7 Bromo 5 fluoro quinazolin 2 amine 8.02 g 33.1 mmol 1.00 equiv Pd OAc 750 mg 3.34 mmol 0.10 equiv 1 3 bis dicyclohexylphosphino propane bis tetrafluoroborate 2.04 g 3.22 mmol 0.10 equiv and KCO 9.27 g 66.4 mmol 2.00 equiv were suspended together in DMF 100 ml under nitrogen and treated with anhydrous MeOH 13.5 mL 333 mmol 10 equiv . The flask was thoroughly flushed with carbon monoxide and then heated to 100 C. with a continuous flow of carbon monoxide which was switched to a static positive pressure on reaching temperature. After 6 h the reaction was cooled. The mixture was diluted with water 200 mL and extracted twice into EtOAc. The combined organic phases were washed with water and brine dried NaSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo to afford a crude orange solid 6.76 g which was absorbed onto SiOand purified by automated SiOchromatography eluting with an EtOAc heptane gradient 0 to 100 EtOAc to afford 4.30 g 59 of methyl 2 amino 5 fluoroquinazoline 7 carboxylate as a pale orange solid H NMR 400 MHz CDCl3 9.35 s 1H 8.07 s 1H 7.48 dd J 10.0 1.0 Hz 1H 5.35 br s 2H 3.98 s 3H LCMS MH 222.2

step 8 A suspension of methyl 2 amino 5 fluoro quinazoline 7 carboxylate 4.28 g 19.3 mmol 1.00 equiv CuI 1.81 g 9.5 mmol 0.49 equiv and diiodomethane 7.80 mL 96.8 mmol 5.0 equiv in THF 80 ml was treated with isoamyl nitrite 7.80 mL 58.1 mmol 3.00 equiv at ambient temperature and the mixture heated to 60 C. After 18 h the reaction was cooled. The mixture was diluted with EtOAc 100 mL filtered through a Celite pad and the dark green filtrate concentrated in vacuo to an oily residue 23.0 g which was absorbed onto SiOand purified by flash chromatography eluting with an EtOAc heptane gradient 0 to 30 EtOAc to afford 3.54 g 55 of methyl 5 fluoro 2 iodoquinazoline 7 carboxylate as a cream white solid H NMR 400 MHz CDCl3 9.39 s 1H 8.49 s 1H 7.90 d J 9.5 Hz 1H 4.02 s 3H LCMS MH 333.0

step 9 A mixture of methyl 5 fluoro 2 iodo quinazoline 7 carboxylate 50 mg 0.15 mmol 1.0 equiv cyclopropylmethylamine hydrochloride 32 mg 0.30 mmol and DIPEA 0.105 mL 0.60 mmol in DMF 0.5 mL was stirred at 75 C. for 1 h. The cooled mixture was diluted with EtOAc 30 mL and washed with water 30 mL . The organic extract was dried NaSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo to afford a yellow solid that was used without further purification.

step 10 A solution of methyl 2 cyclopropylmethylamino 5 fluoro quinazoline 7 carboxylate 40 mg 0.15 mmol in THF 1.3 mL and water 0.4 mL was treated with LiOH 10.4 mg 0.44 mmol and stirred at ambient temperature for 1 h. The mixture was acidified with 1M aqueous citric acid and the resulting precipitate collected via centrifugation washed with water and then dried under high vacuum to afford 2 cyclopropylmethylamino 5 fluoroquinazoline 7 carboxylic acid as a yellow solid which was used without further purification.

The condensation of 2 cyclopropylmethylamino 5 fluoroquinazoline 7 carboxylic acid and S 3 fluoro 4 methoxyphenyl 1 methyl 1H pyrazol 4 yl methanamine 401 to afford I 60 was carried out in accord with the procedure in Example 5.

Compounds were tested in an enzymatic assay using human ERK 2 Mitogen Activated Kinase 1 recombinantly expressed as an N terminal 6 His fusion protein in and corresponding to aa 8 360. The substrate used was the fluorescent Omnia peptide S T17 Invitrogen of Carlsbad Calif. Cat. KNZ1171C . Test compounds were diluted in DMSO in 3 fold serial dilutions at 100 final concentrations. In addition to compound the assay contained 50 mM HEPES pH 7.3 10 mM MgCl 1 mM DTT 0.005 Triton X100 5 nM ERK 2 enzyme 6.25 M S T17 peptide substrate and 25 M ATP corresponding to the observed K for a total reaction volume of 25 L. The assay was run at ambient temperature in a white 384 well polypropylene plate Nunc Inc of Naperville Ill. Cat. 267462 collecting data every 50 seconds for approximately 30 minutes on an Envision plate reader PerkinElmer Inc. of Waltham Mass. Excitation 340 nm Emission 495 nm. The data collected from each well was fit to a straight line and the resulting rates were used to calculate percent of control. Percent of control was plotted against compound concentration and ICvalues were determined using a four parameter fit. Representative data is in TABLE I and TABLE II. The reported ICmay be from a single assay or the mean of multiple assays.

Viable cells after a 3 day 72 hour incubation with ERK compounds were quantified using the Cell Titer Blue Cell Viability Assay from Promega.

Materials and Methods HCT116 cells were plated in 96 well micro plates at a density of 1 000 cells well. The cells were allowed to attach to micro plate overnight at 37 C. 5 CO. After overnight attachment diluted compounds were then added to the cells at a final concentration of 0.5 DMSO. After 3 days 72 hours at 37 C. 5 CO the number of viable cells was determined using the Cell Titer Blue Cell Viability Assay from Promega. Briefly Cell Titer Blue reagent were added to the cells and incubated for 1 hour. Fluorescence 560 nm 590 nm was then read using a fluorescence micro plate reader. Background from high concentration Erk inhibited wells was subtracted. Representative data is in TABLE III infra . The reported ICmay be from a single assay or the mean of multiple assays.

Inhibition of PMA stimulated P90RSK Ser380 phosphorylation was determined by the following in vitro cellular mechanistic assay which comprises incubating cells with a compound for 1.5 h and quantifying fluorescent pP90RSK Ser380 signal on fixed cells and normalizing to GAPDH signal.

Materials and Methods HepG2 cells were obtained from ATCC and grown in DMEM supplemented with 10 fetal bovine serum. Cells were plated in 96 well plates at 35 000 cells well and allowed to attach overnight at 37 C. 5 CO. Diluted compounds were then added at a final concentration of 0.5 DMSO. After 1.5 h compound incubation cells were stimulated with the addition of PMA phorbol 12 myristate 13 acetate at a final concentration of 100 ng mL the PMA stimulation was a 30 min incubation at 37 C. 5 CO. After the 30 minute PMA stimulation cells were washed with PBS and fixed in 3.7 formaldehyde in PBS at room temperature for 15 20 min. This was followed by another wash in PBS and then permeabilization in 100 MeOH at room temperature for 10 15 min. Following the permeabilization incubation cells were washed in PBS 0.05 Tween 20 followed by a block in Odyssey blocking buffer LI COR Biosciences for at least 1 hour. Antibodies to phosphorylated P90RSK Ser380 Cell Signaling 9335 rabbit monoclonal and GAPDH Fitzgerald 10R G109a mouse monoclonal were added to the cells and incubated overnight at 4 C. pP90RSK Ser380 antibody was used at a 1 250 dilution GAPDH was used at a 1 10 000 dilution. After washing with PBS 0.05 Tween 20 the cells were incubated with fluorescently labeled secondary antibodies Anti rabbit Alexa Flour680 Invitrogen Cat A21109 Anti mouse IRDye800CW Rockland Inc. Cat 610 131 121 for 1 h. Both secondary antibodies were used at a 1 1000 dilution. Cells were then washed and analyzed for fluorescence at both wavelengths using the Odyssey Infrared Imaging System LI COR Biosciences . Phosphorylated P90RSK Ser380 signal was normalized to GAPDH signal. Representative data is in TABLE III infra . The reported ICmay be from a single assay or the mean of multiple assays.

Pharmaceutical compositions of the subject Compounds for administration via several routes can be prepared as described in this Example.

The ingredients are mixed and dispensed into capsules containing about 100 mg each one capsule would approximate a total daily dosage.

The ingredients are combined and granulated using a solvent such as methanol. The formulation is then dried and formed into tablets containing about 20 mg of active compound with an appropriate tablet machine.

The active ingredient is dissolved in a portion of the water for injection. A sufficient quantity of sodium chloride is then added with stirring to make the solution isotonic. The solution is made up to weight with the remainder of the water for injection filtered through a 0.2 micron membrane filter and packaged under sterile conditions.

The ingredients are melted together and mixed on a steam bath and poured into molds containing 2.5 g total weight.

All of the ingredients except water are combined and heated to about 60 C. with stirring. A sufficient quantity of water at about 60 C. is then added with vigorous stirring to emulsify the ingredients and water then added q.s. about 100 g.

The features disclosed in the foregoing description or the following claims expressed in their specific forms or in terms of a means for performing the disclosed function or a method or process for attaining the disclosed result as appropriate may separately or in any combination of such features be utilized for realizing the invention in diverse forms thereof.

The foregoing invention has been described in some detail by way of illustration and example for purposes of clarity and understanding. It will be obvious to one of skill in the art that changes and modifications may be practiced within the scope of the appended claims. Therefore it is to be understood that the above description is intended to be illustrative and not restrictive. The scope of the invention should therefore be determined not with reference to the above description but should instead be determined with reference to the following appended claims along with the full scope of equivalents to which such claims are entitled.

The patents published applications and scientific literature referred to herein establish the knowledge of those skilled in the art and are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety to the same extent as if each was specifically and individually indicated to be incorporated by reference. Any conflict between any reference cited herein and the specific teachings of this specifications shall be resolved in favor of the latter. Likewise any conflict between an art understood definition of a word or phrase and a definition of the word or phrase as specifically taught in this specification shall be resolved in favor of the latter.

