---

title: Apparatus for mechanically robust thermal isolation of components
abstract: An apparatus for scanning over a surface of an arbitrarily sized sample in magnetic resonance force microscopy comprising a cantilever for holding a magnetic particle at the cantilever tip, an RF antenna, positioned around the cantilever, for emitting an RF magnetic field across a portion of the sample causing spin of particles in the sample to reverse attracting and opposing the magnetic particle at the cantilever tip, an optical fiber, positioned close to the cantilever tip, for measuring displacements of the cantilever tip where the RF antenna, cantilever, magnetic particle and optical fiber are in fixed positions relative to each other and the sample is positionable according to a sample stage.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09081029&OS=09081029&RS=09081029
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 09081029
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120130
---
Embodiments of the present invention generally relate to magnetic imaging and more particularly to an apparatus for mechanically robust thermal isolation of components in an imaging device.

Magnetic resonance force microscopy MRFM is an imaging technique that acquires magnetic resonance images MRI at nanometer scales and possibly at atomic scales in the future. An MRFM system comprises a probe method of applying a background magnetic field electronics and optics. The system measures variations in a resonant frequency of a cantilever or variations in the amplitude of an oscillating cantilever. The changes in the characteristic of the cantilever being monitored are indicative of the tomography of the sample. More specifically as depicted in an MRFM probe comprises a base with a cantilever tipped with a magnetic for example Samarium Cobalt particle to resonate as the spin of the electrons or nuclei in the sample are reversed. There is a background magnetic field generated by a background magnetic field generator which creates a uniform background magnetic field in the sample . As the magnetic tip moves close to the sample the atoms electrons or nuclear spins become attracted force detection to the tip and generate a small force on the cantilever . Using a radio frequency RF magnetic field applied by an RF antenna through the RF source the spins are then repeatedly flipped at the cantilever s resonant frequency causing the cantilever to oscillate at its resonant frequency. In the geometry shown when the cantilever oscillates the magnetic particle s magnetic moment remains parallel to the background magnetic field and thus it experiences no torque. The displacement of the cantilever is measured with an optical sensor comprised of an interferometer laser beam and an optical fiber to create a series of 2 D images of the sample held by sample stage which are combined to generate a 3 D image. The interferometer measures the time dependent displacement of the cantilever . Smaller magnetic particles and softer cantilevers increase the signal to noise ratio of the sensor.

Nano MRI and nano NMR spectroscopy are both performed at a temperature of 4 Kelvin or colder to improve signal to noise ratio SNR over room temperature. The large RF magnetic fields required frequently come with large amounts of heat 1 Watt that must be conducted out of the base without heating the rest of the apparatus . At 4 K 1 Watt is a large amount of heat for these small probes typically only 5 to 10 cm in diameter that often heat the rest of the probe reducing the signal to noise ratio.

Therefore there is a need in the art for an apparatus mechanically robust thermal isolation of components in an imaging device preventing other probe components from overheating and reducing the signal to noise ratio.

Embodiments of the present invention relate to an apparatus for thermally isolating components in an imaging device comprising a mount for mounting the components a clamp for holding the mount and an accompanying first plate on the opposite side of the mount for preventing rotation of the mount particulate matter positioned between the clamp and the mount and the first plate and the mount for absorbing heat generated by the components and isolating the mount thermally from the rest of the apparatus and a second plate coupled to the first plate and a third plate coupled to the clamp both coupled to a securing mechanism for compressing the apparatus and preventing breakage of the first plate and the clamp.

Embodiments of the present invention comprise a mechanically robust thermal isolation mechanism for components to absorb heat and avoid heat transfer to thermally sensitive components in a probe head. Often the RF antenna of a probe head as described in related U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 361 056 hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety generates heat and transfers this heat undesirably to electrical components or sensitive components such as an optical fiber or cantilever skewing accuracy of measurements or causing dysfunction. As such the RF antenna component must be kept thermally isolated from other parts of a probe head. Therefore the thermal isolation apparatus discussed herein is a sub component of the apparatus disclosed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 361 223 which issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 549 661 hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety to prevent heat from the RF component mounting.

Plates and are located adjacent to plates and coupled to their out facing surfaces. In exemplary embodiments plates and are made of more malleable material than plates and particularly metals such as copper and the like that can better withstand mechanical compression caused by screw . The screw passes through component mount through a hole not shown that is larger than the diameter of screw therefore the component mount is thermally isolated from the screw . In another embodiment the screw is not a screw but another securing mechanism under tension to compress all the components together such as a wire pulled tight and attached to and under tension a rod under tension attached to and via glue welding epoxy swaging soldering and other methods know to experts in the art. In an exemplary embodiment mechanical mount is made of titanium or any non magnetic material and is responsible for positioning the RF antenna components mounted on component mount . In other embodiments plates and are washers instead of plates. Though not shown in the figure component mount plate clamp and plate have a large hole bored into them allowing the screw to pass through these components without any contact with and .

Particulate matter or dust is held by a securing substance which in an exemplary embodiment is comprised of wax. In exemplary embodiments the dust is composed of hard material such as sapphire pieces ceramics glass semiconductors or other hard and poor thermal conductivity material. In this exemplary embodiment the dust is 75 m diameter glass spheres. The dust covers the surface of plate clamp and component mount well enough so even when the components are compressed together the surfaces of component and and and do not come into direct contact with each other. The dust enclosed in a securing material is sandwiched between the two elements and therefore there is no surface contact between element and . This is also true for the upper portion of the clamp where the top lip of clamp touches the component mount . A layer of dust is suspended by securing substance for eliminating the surface area contact between the lip of clamp and component mount at the top and bottom of clamp though not shown in the Figure.

By prohibiting the large flat surfaces of plates and from coming into direct contact with each other heat generated by component mount can only be conducted to plates and through the dust as disclosed in a paper entitled Thermal Impedance of pressed contacts at temperatures below 4 K by Yoo and Andersen hereby incorporated by reference. Since the dust and its mating surfaces are all hard materials under compression deformation of the plates and components is minimized and the contact area between the two remains miniscule. Reduction of the contact area between two objects directly results in lesser thermal conductivity between the two. It is necessary to provide a mechanism to remove the heat generated in the components mounted on the component mount or the component mount will rapidly overheat. Heat generated in the components mounted on the component mount is removed from by conduction through a thermal link with one end attached to and the other end attached to a heat sink in the system. To help mechanically stabilize the apparatus from rotation with respect to mechanical mount plate is attached to clamp using a securing material such as glue or epoxy. Similarly plates and are optionally attached to each other with glue epoxy or other securing material.

In this exemplary embodiment clamp is in a C shape for holding component mount from rotating around the axis created by the screw along with plate . In other embodiments other shapes for the clamp are possible as long as component mount is not allowed to rotate around the axis defined by or translate in the plane defined by the dust . According to another exemplary embodiment the clamp has a pronged portion at the top and the bottom so that the securing material only need be placed at the contact points between clamp and component mount . As disclosed in related U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 361 223 a cantilever is also an important part of an MRFM imaging apparatus probe head along with the RF antenna. The component mount upon which the RF antenna is mounted must not rotate relative to the cantilever of the probe head otherwise the RF magnetic field from the RF antenna will be distorted and measurements of structure of the sample will be inaccurate. In this exemplary embodiment one translational and two rotational degrees of freedom for component mount are very well constrained by the compression of materials by screw while one translational degree of freedom is constrained by the friction between the components of the apparatus . In this exemplary embodiment one rotational and one translational degree of freedom for component mount are very well constrained by the top and bottom of the clamp . In other exemplary embodiments the number of translational and rotational degrees of freedom that component mount possesses must be constrained depending on the application and the direction of the applied torque and forces on the apparatus .

In other exemplary embodiments apparatus and both contain thermal guard rings to capture any residual heat that does leak out of the compressed component plates. In an exemplary embodiment plates and mechanical mount are made of a good thermal conductor such as copper and via the same or separate connections are thermally grounded to an appropriate cold point heatsink in the system. In this configuration any heat absorbed into the screw and through screw into mechanical mount is dissipated into the thermal ground before being absorbed by the other components of the apparatuses or . Thermally grounding plate causes the heat from the compressed plates to be removed before the heat might be transferred to screw reducing the overall temperature for some components in apparatuses and .

The foregoing description for purpose of explanation has been described with reference to specific embodiments. However the illustrative discussions above are not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible in view of the above teachings. The embodiments were chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the present disclosure and its practical applications to thereby enable others skilled in the art to best utilize the invention and various embodiments with various modifications as may be suited to the particular use contemplated.

Various elements devices modules and circuits are described above in associated with their respective functions. These elements devices modules and circuits are considered means for performing their respective functions as described herein. While the foregoing is directed to embodiments of the present invention other and further embodiments of the invention may be devised without departing from the basic scope thereof and the scope thereof is determined by the claims that follow.

