---

title: Method and apparatus for automated collection and sharing of sporting event information
abstract: Techniques are disclosed for automating how information about sporting events is captured, processed, and stored for delivery to interested users. In an exemplary embodiment, score data for a sporting event is captured at a score source and communicated to a remote destination over a network as a URL request where score data is included in a portion of the URL following a domain name portion. In another exemplary embodiment, a scoreboard identifier and sporting event schedule data is used to determine how to translate received score data prior to loading in a database.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09283467&OS=09283467&RS=09283467
owner: Scorezone, LLC
number: 09283467
owner_city: Greenville
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121220
---
The inventors believe that a need exists in the art for improvements in how information about sporting events such as score information is collected and shared with interested parties. Efficient collection of sporting event information in near real time from a venue for that sporting event in an automated fashion is challenging. This challenge is especially acute in connection with amateur sporting events such as high school sports.

In an effort to satisfy such needs the inventors disclose as an exemplary embodiment a method for capturing data about a sporting event and communicating the sporting event data to a destination the method comprising 1 receiving data about a sporting event 2 generating a uniform resource locator URL the URL comprising a domain name portion and a portion following the domain name portion the portion following the domain name portion comprising at least a portion of the received data about the sporting event and 3 sending the generated URL to the destination as a URL request over a network and wherein the method steps are performed by a processor. The received data may comprise score data for the sporting event. Furthermore the receiving step may comprise the processor receiving the score data from a scoreboard the scoreboard being located at a venue where the sporting event is occurring. The scoreboard can be associated with a scoreboard identifier and the portion of the URL following the domain name portion may further comprise the scoreboard identifier. The received score data can comprise score data in a format of the scoreboard and the portion of the URL following the domain name portion further may comprise at least a portion of the score data in the scoreboard s format. Further still as an example the venue can be a school and the sending step can comprise the processor sending the generated URL to the destination via a computer network of the school by emulating a transmission of a URL request from a browser. In doing so the method can be practiced with minimal disruption to the school s computer network e.g. without a requirement to modify the network s firewall settings .

As another exemplary embodiment the inventors disclose an apparatus for capturing data about a sporting event and communicating the sporting event data to a destination the apparatus comprising a processor and a memory wherein the processor and memory are configured to 1 receive data about a sporting event 2 generate a uniform resource locator URL the URL comprising a domain name portion and a portion following the domain name portion the portion following the domain name portion comprising at least a portion of the received data about the sporting event and 3 send the generated URL to the destination as a URL request over a network.

As still another embodiment the inventors disclose a computer program product for capturing data about a sporting event and communicating the sporting event data to a destination the computer program product comprising a plurality of instructions resident on a nontransitory computer readable storage medium the instructions being executable by a processor to 1 receive data about a sporting event 2 generate a uniform resource locator URL the URL comprising a domain name portion and a portion following the domain name portion the portion following the domain name portion comprising at least a portion of the received data about the sporting event and 3 send the generated URL to the destination as a URL request over a network.

Moreover the inventors also disclose a method for loading score data about a sporting event into a database the method comprising 1 receiving information about a sporting event the information comprising score data in an encoded format and an identifier for a scoreboard at a venue where the sporting event is occurring 2 identifying a translation process for the encoded score data based on the scoreboard identifier and sporting event schedule data 3 translating the encoded score data to a decoded format based on the identified translation process and 4 storing the decoded score data in a database and wherein the method steps are performed by a processor. The method may further comprise the processor maintaining a data structure in a memory the data structure associating a plurality of translation processes with a plurality of scoreboard identifiers and with sporting event schedule data and wherein the identifying step comprises the processor accessing the data structure based on the scoreboard identifier to determine which of the translation processes is applicable to the encoded score data. The data structure can comprise a schedule data structure and a translation data structure wherein the schedule data structure comprises a plurality of data items representative of a plurality of different scheduled sporting events each sporting event data item being associated with a date time and a scoreboard identifier for the scoreboard at the venue where the sporting event is scheduled to occur wherein the translation data structure comprises a plurality of data items representative of the translation processes each translation process data item being associated with a sporting event identifier and a scoreboard identifier for the scoreboard at the venue where the sporting event is scheduled to occur and wherein the identifying step comprises the processor 1 identifying the sporting event for the encoded score data by applying the scoreboard identifier in the received information and data representative of a current date and time to the schedule data structure and 2 identifying the translation process applicable to the encoded score data by applying the identified sporting event and the scoreboard identifier in the received information to the translation data structure. The method steps may be performed for a plurality of different sporting events occurring at a plurality of different venues with a plurality of different scoreboards wherein the received information for the plurality of different sporting events comprises score data encoded in a plurality of different formats and wherein the translating step comprises translating the score data encoded in the different formats to a common format using a plurality of identified translation processes. Such a method can be particularly useful when operated in connection with multipurpose scoreboards.

As another exemplary embodiment the inventors disclose an apparatus for loading score data about a sporting event into a database the apparatus comprising a processor and a memory wherein the processor and memory are configured to 1 receive information about a sporting event the information comprising score data in an encoded format and an identifier for a scoreboard at a venue where the sporting event is occurring 2 identify a translation process for the encoded score data based on the scoreboard identifier and sporting event schedule data 3 translate the encoded score data to a decoded format based on the identified translation process and 4 store the decoded score data in a database.

Still further the inventors disclose a computer program product for loading score data about a sporting event into a database the computer program product comprising a plurality of instructions resident on a nontransitory computer readable storage medium the instructions being executable by a processor to 1 receive information about a sporting event the information comprising score data in an encoded format and an identifier for a scoreboard at a venue where the sporting event is occurring 2 identify a translation process for the encoded score data based on the scoreboard identifier and sporting event schedule data 3 translate the encoded score data to a decoded format based on the identified translation process and 4 store the decoded score data in a database.

As yet another exemplary embodiment disclosed herein are techniques whereby advertisements are selected for delivery to users in a targeted manner based on factors such as the sporting event interests of the users and other targeting rules.

These and other features and advantages of the present invention will be apparent to those having ordinary skill in the art upon review of the following description and drawings.

The score data is generated by a plurality of score sources . Score sources are expected to be spread over a wide geographic area. For example the score sources can be located in various high schools. The score sources can include one or more scoreboards . As is well known scoreboards are devices that track a score for a sporting event in near real time. For example in many instances a scoring official who is observing a sporting event will update the scoreboard as the sporting event progresses. For many sports and for many score sources the scoreboards comprise an electronic data entry component and an electronic display component where the electronic display component is positioned to display the score of a sporting event for easy viewing by spectators who are in attendance at the sporting event e.g. a basketball game . The electronic data entry component can be positioned proximate to the scoring official and it can be configured to communicate with the electronic display device via a wired or wireless connection. Furthermore the electronic data entry component can be a component packaged with the electronic display device by a scoreboard manufacturer or it can be a computer e.g. laptop equipped with appropriate software for communicating with the electronic display device.

A wide variety of scoreboards are in use at score sources around the country and world. Scoreboards can not only vary by sport e.g. baseball scoreboards are often different than football scoreboards but can also vary by manufacturer. For example the formatting of the score data maintained by scoreboards will often vary widely by manufacturer even for scoreboards relating to the same sport. Further still many scoreboards serve as multi purpose scoreboards to provide score functionality for multiple sports. For example a scoreboard in a high school gymnasium will often be configured to support scoring functions for sports such as basketball and volleyball.

Thus it should be understood that the score data maintained by scoreboards over multiple score sources is expected to have a wide variety of formatting and content differences based on factors such as the sport involved and the manufacturer of the scoreboard.

The system involves score data being communicated from the score sources to a score data repository and distribution system via a network . The network can be any data communication network capable of communicating data from a score source to the score data repository and distribution system . The network can be a combination of different networks such as a combination of wired and wireless networks. The Internet is an example of a network that is suitable to serve as network . However it should be understood that other networks such as private data communication networks could also be used.

The score data repository and distribution system can comprise a processor and memory . The processor and memory can be configured to maintain the received score data from the various score sources in a format suitable for access over a network such as network by a plurality of score consuming devices .

The score consuming devices can be devices used by persons who have an interest in any of the scores maintained by the score data repository and distribution system . For example the score consuming devices can be desktop or laptop computers that access via a browser program a website on which score data is published. Similarly a mobile computing device such as a smart phone can serve as a score consuming device . The score data repository and distribution system can make score data available to score consuming devices via any of a number of techniques. For example a website can make score data generally available to interested persons. As another example interested persons can set up user accounts and register their interest in being notified of scores for particular sports teams and or high schools etc. The score data repository and distribution system can then be configured to push the relevant scores to the various users for display to those users through their score consuming devices . In instances where a smart phone is used as a score consuming device a mobile application or app can be executed by the smart phone to obtain and display scores that of interest to the user. The score data repository and distribution system can also be configured to maintain a social network for users where this social network is capable of distributing score information for sharing among multiple users. The score data repository and distribution system can also be configured to post score data to a third party social network for similar sharing purposes.

Most scoreboards are configured such that the score data maintained by them are accessible to other electronic devices. For example a connector port on a scoreboard can provide access to the scoreboard s score data. Thus the scoreboard gateway device can connect to the scoreboard through such a connector port. Most scoreboards operate over wired connections designed to operate over great distances. A common input hardware is a current loop. Examples of connection types to various scoreboard models include BNC connectors phono plug connectors RCA jacks twisted pair connections etc. Examples of scoreboards to which a scoreboard gateway device can be connected include scoreboards that are available from Nevco of Greenville Ill. However it should be understood that scoreboards of other manufacturers could also be used by a practitioner.

A non transitory computer readable storage medium such as computer memory resident in the scoreboard gateway device can store computer executable instructions for execution by a processor to implement a process flow such as that of to capture score data.

At step the processor determines whether it is time to obtain score data. If yes the processor proceeds to step . Otherwise the processor remains at step until a determination is made that it is time to obtain score data. The processor can be configured to determine that it is time to obtain score data in a number of fashions. For example the processor can be configured to obtain the score data at a programmable rate e.g. obtain an update every second etc. . As another example the processor can be configured to obtain score data on a triggered basis such as in response to a user request.

At step the processor obtains score data from the scoreboard . Typically a controller for a scoreboard will be streaming out score data to an output port at a high rate e.g. every 1 1000of a second . In an exemplary embodiment the scoreboard gateway device does not need score data at such a high rate and it can limit its intake of score data to a configurable rate e.g. 1 score update per second . The obtained score data will typically be in digital form as a plurality of data bytes that are representative of a current score state of the sporting event. The formatting of these bytes to represent the score will vary from scoreboard model to scoreboard model. For example the baud rates and or modulation techniques for the data vary by scoreboard manufacturer. Thus the scoreboard gateway device can include configurable settings for reading received score data in view of the baud rate and or modulation technique of the scoreboard to which it is connected. The content of the score data can also vary by scoreboard manufacturer with some scoreboards providing basic scoring information such as time score home and away period ball location if applicable team fouls if applicable etc. Other scoreboards can be configured to provide richer score data including information such as player statistics. Similarly some scoreboards can be configured to communicate team names while others simply use a home away or generic Team 1 Team 2 structure. The scoreboard gateway device can be configured to accommodate all such types of score data.

At step the processor generates a URL for communicating the score data to the score data repository and distribution system over network . The generated URL can comprise a domain name portion and a portion following the domain name portion. The portion following the domain name portion can comprise a plurality of characters that serve as an identifier for the scoreboard and a plurality of characters that represent the obtained score data. For example the portion following the domain name portion can comprise an identifier string for identifying the scoreboard and a score data string for representing the obtained score data. In such a case the generated URL can take a form such as 

The scoreboard identifier can be an identifier that uniquely identifies the scoreboard . For example the system can define a unique identifier for all scoreboards within the system e.g. each scoreboard having an assigned unique code within the system . The scoreboard gateway device that connects with a particular scoreboard can then store this unique identifier for pairing with that scoreboard s score data. Thus when the URL is generated the unique identifier can be included in the URL portion following the domain name portion. The scoreboard identifier can also identify the scoreboard by a combination of parameters such as an identifier for a scoreboard make model and an identifier for the scoreboard s venue e.g. a particular high school a particular high school gymnasium or sporting field etc. . In yet another example the scoreboard identifier can be an identifier for the particular scoreboard gateway device with which the scoreboard is paired. In such an implementation when the scoreboard gateway device is manufactured it can be provided with a serialized identifier e.g. a barcode . A programming procedure in the factory can scan such a barcode and program it into the memory of the scoreboard gateway device . This identifier can then be read out of the gateway device s memory and stored in a database as an identifier for the scoreboard gateway device . When the scoreboard gateway device is deployed at a score source where the score source can be registered in the database by information such as address time zone scoreboard make model etc. the database can pair the identifier for the scoreboard gateway device with the scoreboard venue such that the scoreboard gateway device identifier also serves as a scoreboard identifier. The scoreboard gateway device can then output its own serial number with the outgoing score data as the Device ID.

The score data string can simply be the obtained score data presented as a serial character string. As noted different scoreboard models will provide score data in different formats. This formatting may be different in terms of the fields that are included in the score data the organization of fields within the score data and or the encoding of data values within such fields.

Thus a simple general example can be explained for score data from scoreboard model A where the score data may be formatted as 

As noted scoreboard model B may present score information in a different format even if for the same sport. Moreover as should be well understood if scoreboard model B is configured to provide scoring functions for a different sport the formatting can be significantly different than that for scoreboard model A. For example the formatting used to report a baseball score will be significantly different than the formatting used to report a football score.

The score data from the scoreboard can be organized in a format having a header followed by a payload in which the data values representing the score is present. With such a packetized arrangement it should be understood that the packets can exhibit a fixed size or a variable size. Header information will provide information about the packet including whether the size is fixed or variable. Fields within the payload can be indexed with fixed fields or variable sized fields e.g. the first two bytes are score the next four bytes are time the next byte is period etc. . In some situations the payload may be followed by a checksum. However this description is only exemplary and score data can be communicated via different organizations and protocols.

While the example discussed above and shown in step of illustrates that the URL portion following the domain name comprises an initial string for the scoreboard identifier followed by separation delimiter character followed by the score data string it should be understood that the scoreboard identifier can be presented after the score data string or interleaved within the data of the score data string. Furthermore a separation delimiter character need not be used to delineate the scoreboard identifier and the score data string. For example the first X or last X characters of the URL portion following the domain name portion can be reserved for the scoreboard identifier in which case a separation delimiter character would not be needed to parse the URL at the receiving end.

At step the processor sends the generated URL as a URL request to the network for delivery to the score data repository and distribution system as if the processor were attempting to access a website. The processor can emulate a browser by sending the same TCP IP packets that a browser would send as a URL request to implement the HTTP protocol. In an exemplary embodiment the processor connects to network through an existing computer network present at the score source . By emulating a browser s URL request to communicate score data to the score data repository and distribution system the scoreboard gateway device is minimally disruptive to the score source in which the scoreboard gateway device is deployed. For example in an embodiment where the scoreboard is located at a high school and the scoreboard gateway device is configured to access the network through the high school s computer network the use of URL requests as described by permits the scoreboard gateway device to be installed and operated with minimal to no reconfigurations needed for the school s network and firewall system. The reason for this is that to the school network and its firewall the URL requests sent at step appear as ordinary web traffic emanating from a browser on a computer within the school network. The network will route the URL request to a server corresponding to the domain name portion of the URL and this server can then extract the URL portion following the domain name portion to be processed to extract the score data therefrom.

It should be understood that arrangements other than that shown by can be used to capture score data from a scoreboard . For example depicts an exemplary data capture embodiment where the intelligence to execute at least part of the process flow of is resident on the scoreboard itself. A processor and memory within the scoreboard can be configured to perform the steps described in and send score data over network to the score data repository and distribution system . With such an embodiment the need for a separate scoreboard gateway device can be obviated if desired by a practitioner.

As another example shown by at least part of the process flow of can be deployed in the pre existing computer infrastructure of the score source . For example in instances where the score source includes a local computer network the steps of can be performed by a processor and memory within that network . Continuing with the high school example the high school s computer network will already likely include a number of computers. If at least one of these computers is set up to receive a feed of score data from the scoreboard e.g. a laptop used by a scoring official at a sporting event such a computer can also execute the process flow of to communicate the score data to the score data repository and distribution system . The embodiment of can thus also obviate the need for a separate scoreboard gateway device if desired by a practitioner.

For still other embodiments a scoreboard gateway device can be deployed in an arrangement similar to that shown by but where the scoreboard gateway device connects to the scoreboard to access the score data and provide this score data to the local computer network where the processor and memory are configured to then execute the process flow on the score data received from the scoreboard gateway device. In still another variation the scoreboard gateway device could also be configured to perform step and where the generated URL is then passed to the processor and memory for step to be performed.

In a variation on the embodiment of the processing logic resident in the scoreboard can be configured to perform steps while an attached scoreboard gateway device can be configured to perform step . Still other variations can be implemented.

The ingest processing can be performed by one or more servers. Such one or more servers can be configured to receive the URL requests described in connection with from the score sources via network . Similarly the output processing can be performed by one or more servers and these one or more servers need not be the same one or more servers that perform the ingest processing .

At step the processor receives an incoming URL request from a score source . As previously discussed the various URL requests that the processor will receive from the various score sources in the system will contain score data in a plurality of different formats for a plurality of different sports. One of the primary tasks for ingest processing is to translate such score data to a format suitable for networked end user distribution from database with a high degree of automation. At step the processor parses the received URL request to extract the scoreboard identifier and encoded score data string contained therein. For example in an embodiment where the URL is structured such that the URL portion following the domain name portion includes a field for a scoreboard identifier followed by a field for the score data the processor at step can simply extract that relevant data from each field using foreknowledge about the fields formatting and or separation.

The extracted score data will be encoded in a manner that is particular to a given make and model of scoreboard as well as the sport for which the score data is reporting a score. This can pose significant challenges for automated processing. Accentuating this challenge are instances where the scoreboard in question is a multi purpose scoreboard used to report the scores for a plurality of different sports. Multi purpose scoreboards are especially common in places such as high school gymnasiums where sports such as basketball and volleyball are likely to be played using the same scoreboard. To solve this problem at step the processor accesses a schedule data structure in a memory to determine a sport for the extracted score data.

The schedule data structure can be configured to associate a sporting event at a particular date time with an identifier for the scoreboard that will be used to report the scores for that sporting event. For example the data structure can comprise a plurality of sport identifiers each being associated with a date time identifier and a scoreboard identifier . These data items can be stored as a relational data structure in a computer memory to serve as a schedule database. The content of the schedule database can be periodically updated by an administrator or other means. Thus at step the processor can access the schedule data structure using the extracted scoreboard identifier from the URL request and the current date time to locate the appropriate sports identifier for the score data in question. Depending upon the nature of the sports and the rules for a particular sport the sport may need to be identified with a high degree of precision. For example in a high school context if girls basketball and boys basketball are played with different conventions such as using halves instead of quarters to govern time the encoding of score data for boys basketball may be different than that for girls basketball. Similar considerations can be at play in connection with age differences e.g. varsity boys basketball versus freshmen boys basketball . As such the schedule data structure can be configured to identify the relevant sport with particularity. Moreover even if not needed for the purpose of decoding the score data identification of the particular sport at step can be desirable for the purpose of updating the database .

Then at step the processor can access a translation data structure in a memory to determine how the extracted score data should be translated for loading into score database . Once again different scoreboard makes and models will encode their score data in different formats. A plurality of translation files can be maintained by the system where each translation file governs how the encoded score data for a particular scoreboard make model is to be decoded to generate normalized score data that can be loaded into database . The translation data structure can associate these translation files with a scoreboard identifier and a sport identifier . However it should be understood that other mechanisms can be employed to associate translation files with information that permits the processor to look up the appropriate translation file to use for decoding. For example for each scoreboard make model that requires a specific translation function an association can be created in the memory for an identifier for such scoreboard make model and its corresponding translation file. These data items can be stored as a relational data structure in a computer memory to serve as a translation database. Thus at step the processor can determine and retrieve the relevant translation file for the score data in question using the translation data structure in combination with the extracted scoreboard identifier and the sport identifier determined at step . The translation file data item in the translation data structure can be the translation file itself or a pointer to the relevant translation file in memory.

The translation file can take any of a number of forms. An exemplary translation file can be an XML data structure that defines how fields of the extracted score data are to be mapped to fields for storage in the score database. Appendix A includes an example of a translation file that can be employed for a basketball scoreboard Model MPC5 6 available from Nevco of Greenville Ill. However it should be understood that the translation files can take other forms particularly given the variety of encoding techniques that can be encountered among different makes and models of scoreboards. In the exemplary embodiment where the translation files are maintained by system it should be understood that the system is capable of flexibly adapting to new scoreboards that may enter the marketplace or responding to a demand for access to richer data from end users. For example if a new scoreboard model with its own decoding needs becomes available the system can quickly support that scoreboard model by adding a translation file for it. Similarly if the system was not previously capturing all of the items of score data provided by a scoreboard but a demand arises from an end user to have access to such data e.g. end users who may want to track the shot clock for a basketball game while following that basketball game such a demand can be quickly accommodated by updating the translation file for that scoreboard to include a translation function for the encoded shot clock data in the extracted score data see the shot time translation in Appendix A for example .

At step the processor translates the extracted score data using the retrieved translation file to obtain decoded score data. This decoded score data can then be loaded into score database from which it is now available for sharing with the score consuming devices .

While the example of shows the use of separate data structures for the schedule data and the translation data it should be understood that these two data structures can be consolidated if desired by a practitioner. For example the sport and scoreboard identifier fields in the two data structures can be used as a common key to collapse the two data structures. For example a data structure table can be employed where the translation file data item is associated with a scoreboard identifier field and a date time identifier field to permit a more direct lookup of the relevant translation file based on the extracted scoreboard identifier and the current date time. In such an arrangement steps and would effectively consolidated into a single memory access operation.

Furthermore in some instances it may be desirable to encrypt the data being sent over the network to the score data repository and distribution system in particular the portion of URL following the domain name portion. In such instances step of can include a step of encrypting the scoreboard identifier and or score data so that at least a portion of the URL portion following the domain name portion comprises cipher text. With such encryption the security of the score data repository and distribution system can be enhanced. Any known encryption technique suitable for encrypting the scoreboard identifier and or score data can be used for this encryption.

When such encryption is employed step of would also include a complementary decryption operation to decrypt the encrypted data in the URL portion following the domain name portion.

It should also be understood that the process flow of will be repeated for numerous URL requests that are received by the system from numerous score sources . Multiple processing threads and or multiple load balancing ingest servers can be provided to handle the processing load that would arise from the receipt of numerous URL requests for the multiple sporting events that will often be occurring simultaneously at different locales. In some embodiments different threads can be opened for a plurality of different sporting events such that the score data for the same sporting event is handled by the same thread to improve system performance. For example once a thread is opened for a particular sporting event and while the sporting event is ongoing the new URL requests received by the system which contain the same scoreboard identifier can be processed using the already retrieved translation file rather than requiring a repeated performance of steps and . Processing logic can be used to direct the data for a received URL request to an appropriate thread. Further still caching techniques available through Apache can be used to quickly retrieve data that will be repetitious in nature which can also be employed for front end operations such as web page retrievals containing final scores that may be requested by hundreds of users per second .

Further still while the example of shows that schedule reconciliation step and translation steps and are performed by system it should be understood that one or both of these operations could optionally be deployed locally at venue where the score data is captured if desired by a practitioner. For example the schedule data structure can be migrated to the intelligence located at the sporting event venue used to execute the data capture flow. In such a case the URL request send to the system over network can already include a sport identifier. However it should be understood that such a migration would require extra administrative resources to ensure the various venues are kept up to date with accurate scheduling information. Similarly the translation data structure and the corresponding translation logic from could also be migrated to the sporting event venue in which case the URL request from the score source would include score data that has already been decoded.

With these exemplary embodiments the score database will thus reflect the current score state for a plurality of different sporting events. The database can maintain the score data for completed sporting events to provide historical score information and not just score information for ongoing sporting events. The database can take any of a number of forms including as a relational database an XML database or others depending on the desires of a practitioner. Furthermore it should be understood that the data stored by the database for a given sporting event can be augmented with information beyond just score data such as player performance information team performance information league standings and the like. The database can also take the form of a single database or a plurality of distributed databases depending upon the desire of a practitioner.

As discussed above the system can be configured to share the score data with a plurality of score consuming devices via network . The output processing of the system can be configured to support such data sharing in any of a number of manners.

For example the system can comprise one or more web servers that provide access to the score data in database via a website. Such web servers can be configured to support a social network among users whereby the different users are able to share score data with friends via the social network. Further still the output processing can include posting score data to one or more third party social networks e.g. Facebook Twitter etc. .

The output processing can also include interacting with users score consuming devices via mobile applications or the like. For example a user can subscribe to one or more teams of interest through a mobile application executed by his or her smart phone and the output processing can include processing logic to provide the user s smart phone with score data for the teams of interest to the user.

With a wide base of users advertising can be a useful source of revenue to an operator of system . That is system can deliver advertisements to score consuming devices along with score data. Moreover the output processing can be configured to provide highly targeted advertising to the users of such score consuming devices .

Knowledge of user s interest in a particular sports team particularly at the high school level can be helpful information for marketing purposes. Further still with knowledge of a pool of users who share an interest in a particular team or sporting event the system is able to reach a highly targeted pool of users that may not otherwise be specifically available as a group to an advertiser.

As such advertisement selection rules can be deployed that operate to define the conditions under which various advertisements will be selected for delivery to various score consuming devices. For example an advertisement selection rule can be a rule that Advertisement X is to be delivered to all users to who have expressed an interest in scores for High School A. Another advertisement selection rule can be a rule that Advertisement Y is to be delivered to all users who are following the score of a particular game between High School C and High School D. Yet another example of an advertisement selection rule can be a rule that Advertisement Z is to be delivered to all users who are following the score of a girls sport in a particular metropolitan area or subarea. These and countless other advertisement selection rules can be implemented as part of the output processing . By parameterizing advertisement selection rules in this fashion e.g. any combination of schools games venues and teams a practitioner of the system can accommodate highly specific targeting requests from advertisers.

At step a processor receives a request to deliver a score to one or more score consuming devices . This request may emanate directly from a score consuming device or it may be a request from the system itself that a score is to be delivered to a score consuming device e.g. a score for a game is to be delivered to the users who have subscribed to that game .

At step the processor retrieves the relevant score data from the score database . The retrieved data can include information beyond just the score for the game.

At step the processor applies advertisement selection logic to identify one more advertisements that are to be delivered to a score consuming device in response to the request at step . This advertisement selection logic can apply a plurality of advertisement selection rules to a domain of data that is relevant to the situation. Examples of data that could be considered by such advertisement selection rules include information known about the user e.g. demographic information such as age location interests etc. where such information can be determined from registration information that a user may have supplied information about the sporting event in question e.g. the teams involved the location of the sporting event the importance of the sporting event etc. the time of day time of year etc.

At step the one or more advertisements selected as a result of step are retrieved from the advertisement database . Then at step the processor delivers the retrieved score data and the retrieved advertisement s to one or more score consuming devices over network for display on such one or more score consuming devices. As should be well understood the advertisements can take the form of text audio and or graphic e.g. video content depending upon the desires of a practitioner. Moreover the revenue arrangement for the delivery of such advertisements can be a matter of private negotiation between an operator of system and an advertiser.

While the present invention have been described above in relation to exemplary embodiments various modifications may be made thereto that still fall within the invention s scope as will be recognizable upon review of the teachings herein. As such the full scope of the present invention is to be defined solely by the appended claims and their legal equivalents.

