---

title: System and method for combining fulfillment of customer orders from merchants in computer-facilitated marketplaces
abstract: Combining fulfillment of customer orders from merchants in computer-facilitated marketplaces. An order management system may include a virtual shopping cart interface that may be used with a number of merchants. Each merchant may be registered to receive fulfillment services from a fulfillment services provider for inventory items the merchant offers in commerce. The virtual shopping cart interface may be configured to receive requests to indicate various items within a virtual shopping cart corresponding to a customer. Different inventory items offered by different merchants may be placed within the virtual shopping cart. In response to the customer's request to finalize an order, the order management system may instruct the fulfillment services provider to ship the items in the virtual shopping cart to the customer. A single shipment may include items offered by several different merchants, and each of the merchants may be the merchant of record for its respective inventory item.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08577740&OS=08577740&RS=08577740
owner: Amazon Technologies, Inc.
number: 08577740
owner_city: Reno
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120531
---
This application is a divisional of U.S. application Ser. No. 11 852 040 filed on Sep. 7 2007 which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

In order to offer customers a variety of items readily available for delivery many merchants whether engaging in electronic or conventional brick and mortar commerce hold various quantities of such items within inventory facilities. Keeping items in inventory may serve to buffer variations in customer demand or a manufacturer or distributor s ability to supply various items. For example different items offered for sale by a merchant may have different manufacturer lead times. Holding quantities of such items as inventory may enable a merchant to offer consistent availability of these items to customers despite the different lead times.

However in some circumstances holding inventory may present various costs or disadvantages to a merchant. For example inventory storage facilities may be expensive to provision and maintain particularly for smaller merchants who may not be able to efficiently and profitably distribute the fixed costs of such facilities across a limited quantity of inventory. Moreover should the need arise scaling an inventory system to accommodate increased demand or volume may be an expensive proposition requiring substantial investment in technology facilities and or staffing.

A merchant s holding its own inventory may also present disadvantages to customers. As electronic commerce grows in popularity many merchants increasingly list their offerings along with other merchants via electronic marketplaces that provide a common interface through which customers may search for items and place orders. However if different merchants are ultimately responsible for fulfilling their own respective orders through such a marketplace the customer s ordering experience for a given item may vary considerably depending on the merchant from which the item is ordered. For example a merchant that has little skill or poor processes for order fulfillment may be slow to ship an item may ship the wrong item may deliver damaged goods or may otherwise create a negative customer experience. Such a negative experience may reflect not only on the merchant from which the customer ordered but also on other merchants in the electronic marketplace possibly decreasing customer confidence in the marketplace itself.

While the present disclosure is susceptible to various modifications and alternative forms specific embodiments thereof are shown by way of example in the drawings and will herein be described in detail. It should be understood however that the drawings and detailed description thereto are not intended to limit the claims to the particular form disclosed but on the contrary the intention is to cover all modifications equivalents and alternatives falling within the spirit and scope of the present disclosure as defined by the appended claims.

Numerous aspects of systems configured to implement computer facilitated marketplaces and order fulfillment are described below. First aspects of inventory management are described. Techniques for facilitating merchant registration to receive inventory fulfillment services from a fulfillment provider are then discussed. An overview of the fulfillment process is given and finally various techniques for integrating the customer shopping experience across various merchants that have arranged to receive inventory fulfillment services are described. It is noted that the order of discussion and section headings are intended to facilitate exposition are merely exemplary and are not intended to be limiting.

One embodiment of a fulfillment center configured to store inventory items for customer order fulfillment is illustrated in . In the illustrated embodiment an enterprise includes a fulfillment center that in turn includes an inventory storage facility as well as an inventory management system . Storage facility may be configured to store an arbitrary number of inventory items . As described on greater detail below system may be configured to receive customer orders for various ones of items from one or more customers via one or more of an arbitrary number of different merchants . Additionally system may be configured to initiate and or coordinate actions resulting in the shipment of ordered items to corresponding customers .

Generally speaking fulfillment center may be configured to receive and store different kinds of items from various sources such as wholesalers distributors or merchants for example. Items may generally encompass any type of tangible object or substance that may be received for storage. For example and without limitation items may include media items e.g. books compact discs videotape and or DVDs electronic devices computers and related peripherals and equipment consumer or commercial appliances clothing prescription and or over the counter pharmaceuticals cosmetics food or other suitable items. It is noted that items may be stocked managed or dispensed in terms of discrete countable units or multiples of units such as packages cartons crates pallets or other suitable aggregations. Alternatively some items such as bulk products commodities etc. may be stored in continuous or arbitrarily divisible amounts that may not be inherently organized into countable units. Such items may be managed in terms of measurable quantities such as units of length area volume weight time duration or other dimensional properties characterized by units of measurement. Generally speaking a quantity of an item may refer to either a countable number of individual or aggregate units of an item or a measurable amount of an item as appropriate.

Items received at fulfillment center for storage may be stored within inventory storage facility which may include any suitable combination or arrangement of item storage structures. For example facility may include racks bins pallets or other types of storage apparatus arranged in a grid or other fashion. In some embodiments facility may include different types of storage suitable for items having special storage requirements. For example certain types of items may be perishable fragile or volatile and may require storage under controlled temperature atmospheric or other conditions. Correspondingly facility may include refrigerated or other types of storage areas configured to satisfy special environmental requirements of certain items . It is contemplated that in some embodiments items may be stored within facility in different configurations than in which they are received. For example units of items may be received in boxes on pallets or in other aggregate units and may be unpacked or otherwise disaggregated for storage as individual units within bins on shelves or in other storage structures within facility .

Inventory management system may generally be configured to track and control the status and movement of inventory items through fulfillment center . In one embodiment as described in greater detail below in conjunction with the description of system may include computer accessible media configured to store instructions that are executable e.g. by a processor or computer system to detect events that relate to items and to generate or initiate actions in response to such events. For example system may detect events relating to the arrival of inventory items from a supplier or merchant and may responsively instruct an agent e.g. a mechanical agent or human agent to process the received items and store them appropriately within storage facility . Similarly system may be configured to detect orders for various items that may arrive from merchants on behalf of customers . Responsively system may be configured to instruct an agent to select the appropriate item s for a received order from storage facility and prepare the selected item s for shipping or other conveyance to a corresponding customer . In some embodiments whenever units of a given item are stored within or selected from storage facility system may update an indication corresponding to the given item to reflect its inventory status. For example such an indication may reflect the number of units currently stored within facility the number of units that have been selected from facility but that have not yet left fulfillment center the number of units of given item that are on order and or any other suitable item status information. System may also be configured to process events relating to the processing of damaged or defective items returns received from customers or other exceptional events.

Merchants may arrange to offer various ones of items in commerce to customers . Generally speaking an item may be offered in commerce by a merchant according to any suitable business model. For example an item may be offered in commerce on the basis of a sale rental lease auction barter credit licensing royalty or any other type of transaction. Merchants may offer items in commerce through any of a variety of channels. For example a given merchant may present offers of items via electronic commerce e commerce portals accessible by customers . Such e commerce offerings may variously include listing items via a web based entity e.g. a web site or page hosted by the given merchant and presented as an offering entity distinct from enterprise or listing items via a web based entity hosted by enterprise on behalf of the given merchant . It is noted that in some embodiments an item may be offered in commerce for promotional or inducement purposes rather than for immediate consideration or exchange. For example an item may be offered to a customer without cost but subject to various conditions such as requiring the customer to utilize the item within a given period of time provide feedback regarding the item engage in a future transaction with the merchant or other suitable conditions. Alternatively an item may be offered to a customer without cost or conditions. For example such an item may be offered to induce customer goodwill attract customer traffic or for any other purpose.

In some embodiments a merchant may list items via a general web based entity hosted by enterprise such as a marketplace or forum in which many merchants may list offerings. Generally speaking a marketplace e commerce channel may generally refer to a web based entity through which multiple merchants may offer items to customers via one or more web pages. For example a marketplace may be organized to present to customers one or more web pages listing the various merchants offering a particular item in commerce according to various terms e.g. price availability condition etc. . Alternatively a marketplace may be organized to present to customers one or more web pages corresponding to respective virtual storefronts of merchants where each storefront indicates the various offerings of a corresponding merchant . In some embodiments a marketplace may be implemented via a web services application programming interface API described below rather than as one or more web pages. For example catalog information ordering functions and other aspects of a marketplace may be implemented as web services functions that may be invoked by various parties to present items in commerce to customers . Other configurations of e commerce marketplaces are possible and contemplated.

A merchant s e commerce offerings may also include listing items via a third party web entity distinct from enterprise and the merchant such as a third party auction web entity. It is also contemplated that a merchant may present e commerce offerings through entities other than web based entities. For example a merchant may present such offerings through electronic mail electronic bulletin boards or other electronic channels.

In some embodiments merchants may also offer items in commerce to customers through non electronic channels such as catalog telephone or physical storefront channels for example. Alternatively some merchants may offer items in commerce through a combination of different channels. It is also noted that some merchants such as merchant may be affiliated with the enterprise that provides fulfillment services to merchants in general although in other embodiments enterprise may provide fulfillment services for items without operating as a merchant for those items.

Generally speaking customer s may include any entity that may place an order for one or more items via one or more merchants . For example a customer may include an individual institution corporation business organization or other entity. Customers may place orders with merchants via any suitable channel such as one of the e commerce channels described above or via a non electronic order channel. A customer may be an entity that is ultimately legally and or fiscally responsible for an order but need not be such an entity. Similarly a customer may or may not be the intended recipient of items associated with a given order. For example a customer may place an order for items on behalf of another entity that may bear liability for payment or may be the intended recipient. In some embodiments a customer may include multiple individuals or entities that consent to have their ordered items shipped together. For example a customer may correspond to a group of individuals in the same household or business.

After a given customer places an order for one or more items the order may be fulfilled. Generally speaking the fulfillment process may include selecting from storage the item s specified in the order packaging selected item s appropriately for the mode in which they will be conveyed to the customer or other intended recipient and conveying the package or packages to the recipient. For example selected item s may be packaged in one or more boxes envelopes or other types of containers along with protective material promotional materials e.g. advertising leaflets or brochures a packing slip or invoice. The packing container may then be sealed appropriately labeled and tendered to a common carrier e.g. the United States Postal Service or another carrier or another type of carrier or delivery service for delivery to the intended recipient.

As shown in the embodiment of fulfillment center may be configured to offer fulfillment services to a variety of merchants that may be internal or external to the enterprise associated with fulfillment center . In general fulfillment services may include any actions relating to the storage and processing of items within fulfillment center as well as the fulfillment of specific customer orders for various ones of items . For example fulfillment services may include those tasks involved in receiving items into inventory such as taking physical receipt of units or quantities of items examining and or evaluating the condition of received items unpacking or repackaging items if necessary and storing items within storage facility . Fulfillment services may also include selecting or picking items from storage facility in response to a customer order as well as the packaging and shipping tasks described above. In some embodiments fulfillment services may include other tasks undertaken on behalf of a merchant such as inspecting or monitoring the quantity and or condition of items while stored in storage facility receiving and processing items returned from customers processing and disposing of items that are unmarketable for various reasons e.g. items that are surplus damaged expired spoiled etc. engaging in customer service activities e.g. responding to complaints inquiries etc. with customers or other types of tasks. Embodiments of fulfillment center configured to provide fulfillment services to merchants may also be referred to as fulfillment services providers.

In some instances fulfillment center may provide fulfillment services to merchants with greater economies of scale than if merchants were to perform their own fulfillment services. For example the incremental cost of providing a square foot of storage area in a large fulfillment center e.g. one comprising hundreds of thousands of square feet of storage area may be significantly lower than the cost incurred by a small merchant which may have limited space for storage or may be forced by local market conditions to retain more space than required for that merchant s inventory. Similarly fulfillment center may implement sophisticated inventory tracking and management techniques that might be costly and cumbersome to implement on the scale of an individual merchant such as RFID Radio Frequency Identification of items dynamic scheduling and optimization of item selection across multiple orders real time inventory tracking with respect to order receiving and shipping activity or other inventory management techniques. As described in greater detail below in some embodiments fulfillment center may be configured to consolidate a single customer s orders from several merchants which may realize additional economies of scale e.g. by reducing packaging item handling and shipping costs.

Arranging the provision of fulfillment services to various merchants may present challenges however. For example merchants may operate as distinct enterprises having methods and systems for inventory management and accounting that differ from one another as well as from enterprise . As a result merchants and enterprise may lack a uniform way of identifying inventory items . For example a given merchant may identify and manage a particular item by that item s Universal Product Code UPC whereas the same item may be identified within fulfillment center by a proprietary unique identification number. Further merchants may wish to dynamically change the fulfillment services they receive for various items . For example a particular merchant may wish to expeditiously transition from performing its own fulfillment for an item to receiving fulfillment services for that item from fulfillment center or vice versa. If such a transition were to require manual approvals e.g. of the merchant s eligibility or the item s suitability for fulfillment services and or a manual integration of relevant aspects of the particular merchant s inventory and order management systems with those of fulfillment center the overhead of arranging for fulfillment services may significantly erode the savings or efficiencies provided by such services. For example if enterprise were condition processing of fulfillment services requests on manual lookup and entry of data provided by a merchant days or weeks might elapse

In one embodiment fulfillment center may be configured to provide a registration interface through which a merchant may register to receive fulfillment services for one or more items where operation of the registration interface to process a request for fulfillment services does not require human intervention. For example the interface may provide an automated process through which a merchant may complete those tasks necessary to initiate fulfillment services for various items . As described in greater detail below in various embodiments such an automated process may include evaluating the credentials of a merchant e.g. whether the merchant is known to enterprise in good financial status etc. assessing the items for which fulfillment services have been requested e.g. whether the items qualify for the requested services and providing the requesting merchant with the information needed to complete the fulfillment services request e.g. providing labels to be applied to items for fulfillment center inventory control shipping labels for shipping items to a fulfillment center instructions status reports or other information . The fulfillment center s portion of each of these tasks may be performed automatically and without human intervention as detailed below.

One embodiment of a fulfillment services registration interface is illustrated in . In the illustrated embodiment inventory management system of fulfillment center is shown to include a registration interface configured to interact with a database . In one embodiment registration interface may be configured to present an interface through which a given merchant may specify a request for fulfillment services enter data related to the requested services and engage in those processing actions deemed necessary by enterprise for given merchant to receive the requested services. For example in one embodiment interface may be configured to present to a merchant one or more web pages accessible via the public Internet or a private intranet e.g. a private network maintained by or on behalf of enterprise requiring some level of authentication or secured connection for access . Such a web page may include fillable forms menus executable applications e.g. applications coded in Java Javascript or another language suitable for web based execution or other web based interface elements.

In another embodiment interface may be configured to present a proprietary or non web based registration interface to merchants . For example interface may be accessible through a dialup or non web based Internet connection such as via a terminal emulation program such as telnet or via another type of standard or proprietary application suitable for transmitting information between a merchant and inventory management system . In yet another embodiment interface may include a web services interface for merchant fulfillment services registration as described in greater detail below. In some embodiments interface may include other types or modes of interface implementations including various combinations of the aforementioned techniques configured for communicating with merchants to perform activities related to registering for or managing use of fulfillment services.

In the illustrated embodiment interface may be configured to store fulfillment services registration data received from merchants or other data that is derived from or produced as a result of or in relation to a merchant s fulfillment services registration activity within database . Generally speaking database may include any suitable type of application or data structure that may be configured as a persistent data repository. For example database may be configured as a relational database that includes one or more tables of columns and rows and that may be searched or queried according to a query language such as a version of Structured Query Language SQL . Alternatively database may be configured as a structured data store that includes data records formatted according to a markup language such as a version of eXtensible Markup Language XML . In other embodiments database may be implemented using one or more arbitrarily or minimally structured data files managed and accessible through any suitable type of application.

Database may generally be configured to store any kind of data related to merchants items and or requests for fulfillment services in various stages of processing. For example database may be configured to store identifying information about merchants such as names and address of merchant personnel or departments merchant billing and shipping address information merchant banking or other financial information or other identifying information. Database may also be configured to store current and or historical status information regarding inventory or sales transactions of merchants such as a merchant s order history payment history the status of a merchant s inventory items within fulfillment center the status of any pending fulfillment services requests for a merchant or other types of status information. In some embodiments database may also be configured to store identifier mapping information for items . For example database may store records that relate a given merchant s identifier for a particular item e.g. a merchant s stock keeping unit SKU identifier with an identifier that may be specific to enterprise or to fulfillment center . Such mapping information may be used for example to associate a merchant s fulfillment services request

It is noted that database need not be integrated within inventory management system or even within fulfillment center . In some embodiments merchant and or inventory data may be stored in a number of different data stores distributed throughout enterprise . For example merchant financial data may be stored in an accounting database associated with an accounting department of enterprise that may be distinct from a fulfillment department such as fulfillment center . Similarly in some embodiments interface may be configured to interact with a variety of systems applications or databases within or external to inventory management system in addition to or instead of database .

One embodiment of a method through which a fulfillment services provider or simply provider such as fulfillment center may receive and process a request for inventory fulfillment services from a merchant is illustrated in . It is contemplated that in various embodiments the illustrated method or a suitable variant thereof may be implemented via computer executed instructions stored on a computer accessible medium as described in greater detail below in conjunction with the description of or via dedicated computing hardware devices that may be state dependent e.g. state machines but which may not execute discrete instructions per se. It is further contemplated that in some embodiments some or all of the illustrated method may be implemented by decision logic included within interface while in other embodiments interface may be configured to relay merchant state information e.g. inputs or outputs of the fulfillment services registration process to and from other executable components systems or devices within inventory management system or fulfillment center . In such other embodiments some or all of the illustrated method may be implemented by components other than interface . It is noted that in various embodiments a merchant may submit a single fulfillment services request applicable to multiple different items or may submit respective requests for each of several items . Although examples discussed hereinafter may refer to processing of a single item it is understood that the method may be applicable to the concurrent fulfillment services request processing of multiple different items .

In the illustrated embodiment operation begins in block where a request for inventory fulfillment services is received by a fulfillment services provider from a merchant . For example such a request may be received via one embodiment of registration interface as a result of a merchant signing into a secure web page using a merchant identifier and an appropriate credential e.g. a login name and password or any other suitable type of credential and subsequently selecting an option to request fulfillment services e.g. a link button etc. displayed via the secure web page. In other embodiments such a request may be received via web services calls or via a mode of communication that does not employ web based protocols.

Upon receiving a fulfillment services request from a merchant the provider may determine whether the requesting merchant is eligible to receive fulfillment services block . In some embodiments merchant eligibility for fulfillment services may depend on the merchant s historical behavior. For example the current status or history of the merchant s prior transactions with the provider or another enterprise may be examined to determine whether the merchant has engaged in fraudulent or questionable transactions with customers vendors the provider or other parties. In some embodiments a merchant s creditworthiness customer service history or any other data related to the merchant or in some cases related to fiscally responsible entities or individuals associated with the merchant such as guarantors principals executives etc. may be taken into account when considering a merchant s eligibility for fulfillment services and such data may include data obtained from third parties such as credit reporting agencies business references customers and the like.

In various embodiments the provider may implement decision models of varying complexity taking into account any of the foregoing types of merchant data or other types not specifically mentioned in order to render a decision as to whether the requesting merchant is eligible for fulfillment services. For example in one embodiment any history of fraudulent behavior may disqualify a merchant whereas in other embodiments a more sophisticated risk analysis model may consider such behavior in the context of other data points. It is contemplated that in some embodiments eligibility for fulfillment services may depend on the type or volume of services requested. For example a merchant having little history or questionable history may be allowed access to fulfillment services on a trial or probationary basis with such access restricted to certain types quantities or value of items or restricted on some other basis.

If the requesting merchant is determined to be ineligible for fulfillment services the merchant may be prevented from proceeding with automated fulfillment services request processing block . In some embodiments the merchant may be directed to contact a fulfillment services agent e.g. a customer service representative for further information or assistance in processing the fulfillment services request for example to receive an explanation of the reasons for disqualification and of actions that may be taken if any to remedy the situation.

If the requesting merchant is determined to be eligible for fulfillment services the provider may determine whether the merchant is already registered to receive fulfillment services block . In one embodiment determining a merchant s registration status may include determining whether the merchant has supplied data that the provider deems necessary to perform fulfillment services on behalf of the merchant. For example registration may be contingent upon a merchant agreeing e.g. electronically or in writing to a fulfillment services participation agreement that details obligations and expectations of the provider and the merchant relating to fulfillment services such as the merchant s agreeing to abide by various financial procedural customer service or other policies . Registration may also be contingent upon a merchant providing sufficient identifying information as set forth below. In some embodiments determining whether a merchant is registered may include determining whether the merchant has previously registered for fulfillment services and if so assuming that the merchant is registered without checking each data item required of the merchant for registration. Also in some embodiments if the previous registration or any previous fulfillment services activity on behalf of the merchant occurred more than a threshold period of time prior to the current fulfillment services request the merchant may be required to provide some or all of the registration data once again. It is noted that in some embodiments determination of a merchant s registration status may occur prior to determination of the merchant s eligibility for fulfillment services.

If the requesting merchant is determined not to be registered the provider may request registration data from the merchant block . For example a fillable web form or other request for merchant input may be provided or displayed to the merchant via interface . Requested input may include information such as the merchant s name phone number address bank name bank routing number and account number taxpayer identification information and or any other suitable information. Additionally if necessary or appropriate a participation agreement may be conveyed to the merchant via interface along with a solicitation for the merchant to expressly accept or refuse the agreement. The merchant may then enter or supply the requested data in a manner suitable to the mode in which the request was delivered e.g. by filling out a web based form.

The provider may then attempt to validate the registration data provided by the merchant block . For example the provider may check to see that all required data has been provided and may corroborate certain data items with third parties e.g. by checking contact or banking information against a public address database or the specified bank respectively. The provider may also check to see whether the merchant indicated acceptance of the participation agreement if applicable. If any portion of the provided data fails to validate the merchant may request that the merchant reenter the data or may terminate automated fulfillment services request processing and request that the merchant contact an agent for further assistance block .

If the provided data is valid or the merchant is determined to have already registered the provider may request identifying information associated with the item s for which the merchant is requesting fulfillment services block . For example interface may display another web based form through which the merchant may provide item identifying information. In some embodiments item identifying information may be supplied along with the initial request for fulfillment services and a separate request for this information may not be made by the provider. Also in some embodiments a merchant may specify a quantity of the item for which fulfillment services are requested in addition to item identifying information.

The provider may then determine whether it has sufficient information about the item as identified by the requesting merchant to process the fulfillment services request for that item block . In one embodiment the provider may make this determination by first determining whether the item is known to the provider e.g. whether the provider has some record of information associated with the item . For example as noted previously an item may be identified by a merchant in a different manner than by fulfillment center . In one embodiment the merchant may provide the merchant s own unique identifier such as a merchant specified SKU identifier as identifying information for an item . In response the provider may determine whether there exists a mapping from the merchant s unique identifier to an identifier known to the provider for example by querying database using the merchant s identifier to determine whether a corresponding record includes the provider s identifier. In another embodiment when supplying identifying information for an item the requesting merchant may provide an identifier known to the provider instead of or in addition to a merchant specified identifier.

If the provider has insufficient information to process the fulfillment services request for the identified item the provider may solicit additional information from the merchant block . For example if the provider could not locate a record for item on the basis of a merchant specific identifier such as a merchant s SKU the provider may solicit the requesting merchant for a provider specific identifier or a generic identifier such as a Universal Product Code identifier if available. In some embodiments the provider may provide item search capabilities via interface in order to allow a requesting merchant to determine whether the item for which fulfillment services have been requested is known to the provider. For example the provider may provide a keyword search feature to allow the requesting merchant to enter keywords relevant to an item . Alternatively the provider may allow the requesting merchant to navigate a hierarchy of item categories to ascertain whether the item identified by the merchant is included in the hierarchy and in some embodiments to determine the most similar item in the hierarchy if the item is not included.

In some circumstances the provider may have no information corresponding to an item for which fulfillment services have been requested. For example the provider may never have provided fulfillment services for the item before either for the requesting merchant or any other merchant. In some embodiments the provider may be configured to request the necessary information in this case. For example the provider may request that the requesting merchant provide information such as item dimensions weight item type or class information e.g. according to a taxonomy or hierarchy defined by the provider item special characteristics e.g. whether the item is liquid perishable a hazardous material requires special handling or storage conditions etc. or any other information deemed necessary by the provider to identify the item to determine whether the item is eligible for fulfillment services and or to facilitate the provision of fulfillment services.

Once the provider has sufficient information about the identified item the provider may determine whether the item is eligible for the requested fulfillment services block . For example in one embodiment the provider may disallow fulfillment services for certain types of items such as hazardous items. In another embodiment a merchant may be restricted from requesting fulfillment services for certain items according to its participation agreement or fee structure current business relationship with the provider the current state of the merchant s other inventory with respect to the provider or any other suitable criterion. For example a merchant may contract with a provider to receive fulfillment services for a certain quantity of an item over a given period of time such that fulfillment requests for additional quantities of that item may be disallowed.

If the fulfillment services request cannot be processed owing to ineligibility of the item the provider may notify the requesting merchant via interface and automated fulfillment services request processing may terminate block . Otherwise the provider may instruct the requesting merchant to convey some specified quantity of item to the provider such as a quantity that may have been specified by the requesting merchant in or subsequent to the request for fulfillment services block .

In one embodiment in instructing the merchant to convey item the provider may provide the requesting merchant with data to be used by the merchant to identify individual units of item . For example the provider may convey a document file to the merchant via interface such as a Portable Document Format PDF file or another type of document file which includes alphanumeric bar code or other information indicative of identifying information that may be used to manage units of the item within fulfillment center . In various embodiments such identifying information may uniquely identify each individual unit of the item may generically identify the units as being identical instances of the kind or type of item or may combine information generic to the item with information specific to a particular unit of the item . For example the provided identifying information may include a serial number that is unique to a particular unit of an item a UPC or similar product code that is generic to all units of an item or a code that identifies the product type of item as well as the condition of a particular unit e.g. new used damaged etc. . Any suitable type or combination of identifying information may be employed. The provided document may be used to generate labels to be respectively affixed to individual units of item . For example the requesting merchant may upon receiving the document print its contents on label stock and affix the labels to units of item as appropriate.

The provider may also provide the requesting merchant with data to be used by the merchant to convey item to the provider. In one embodiment the provider may convey a document file such as a PDF document or other type of document file to the merchant via interface that includes data indicative of shipping information. For example the document file may include address information bar code data and or other data that may be used to generate a shipping label. Such a shipping label may be a generic shipping label suitable for tendering a package to any type of carrier. Alternatively the shipping label data may be tailored to a particular carrier for example by including bar code geographic code or other routing or handling information specific to the particular carrier. In some embodiments shipping information data may be included in the same document used to convey unit identifying information as described above while in other embodiments shipping information data may be conveyed in a separate document. It is noted that in various embodiments the provider may convey unit identifying information shipping information both or neither to the requesting merchant .

In some embodiments shipping related data provided to the requesting merchant may reflect the number of discrete shipments or packages expected from the requesting merchant . For example the merchant may indicate that the specified quantity of item for which fulfillment services have been requested may be divided among a certain number of packages. Alternatively the provider may instruct the requesting merchant to divide the specified quantity among shipments in a particular way. In some embodiments the shipping data provided to the requesting merchant in the case of multiple shipments or packages of a particular item may uniquely identify each shipment or package for example by including bar code or other information to be included on shipping labels generated from the shipping data. It is contemplated that in some embodiments the provider may instruct the requesting merchant to ship different quantities of item to different fulfillment centers and shipping data conveyed to the requesting merchant may reflect this distribution. For example the provider may specify the distribution according to available storage resources at various fulfillment centers . Alternatively the provider or the requesting merchant may wish to ensure a particular geographical distribution of item among different fulfillment centers for example to satisfy expected patterns of demand.

In many cases upon receiving instructions to convey the specified quantity of item to the provider the requesting merchant may appropriately package and ship item to the provider according to the received instructions. For example the requesting merchant may print item labels and affix them to units of item pack the units in one or more packages for shipment print shipping labels and affix them to the package s and tender the package s to a shipper or carrier for shipment to the provider. However the requesting merchant need not be in actual possession of item . In some embodiments the requesting merchant may arrange with a third party such as a manufacturer distributor vendor or other type of supplier to convey the specified quantity of item to the provider. For example the requesting merchant may forward item identifying and or shipping information to the third party which may arrange to convey item to the provider on behalf of the requesting merchant .

Subsequent to instructing the requesting merchant to convey the specified quantity of item the provider may receive item block and store item into inventory block . For example one or more packages including units of item may arrive at fulfillment center . In various embodiments the package s may be scanned unpacked inspected and or otherwise processed and units of item may be stored within storage facility . Inventory management system may also be appropriately updated to reflect the status of received units of item and in some embodiments the requesting merchant may be notified that item is available for fulfillment.

In some embodiments the provider may receive a notification of shipment from the requesting merchant before item arrives. In some such embodiments either the provider or the requesting merchant may update an indication of availability of item in response to such a notification. For example the requesting merchant may offer item in commerce via an e commerce channel maintained by enterprise such as a web based storefront or a marketplace. In response to a notification of shipment received from the requesting merchant enterprise may update an offering display or listing of item to indicate an expected lead time or other indication of availability taking into account factors such as expected time in transit from the requesting merchant to the provider processing time to receive and store item at the provider and or other factors affecting availability of item .

It is noted that in some embodiments a fulfillment services provider such as fulfillment center may operate to allow a merchant to request fulfillment services for an item to conduct those actions necessary to validate the eligibility of the merchant and the item for the requested services and to convey to the merchant the data necessary for the merchant to prepare item for the requested services and convey item to the provider. In particular it is noted that fulfillment center may perform these tasks in an entirely automated manner such that if the requesting merchant and the item satisfy the provider s eligibility requirements the fulfillment services request may be processed without human intervention. For example by interacting with fulfillment center via registration interface a merchant may complete a fulfillment services request for an item ship item to fulfillment center and begin relaying customer orders for item to fulfillment center for fulfillment as detailed below without depending on the actions of an agent of fulfillment center external to registration interface . Such an automated fulfillment services request processing system may also be referred to as a self service system in that a merchant may interact with the system entirely on its own initiative.

In one embodiment in addition to providing a self service registration interface through which merchants may request inventory fulfillment services for various items a fulfillment services provider may provide a management interface through which merchants may manage various aspects of the fulfillment services applicable to their items . illustrates an embodiment of inventory management system similar to that of with the addition of a management interface that may be configured to interact with database as well as merchant .

Management interface may be configured to present an interface through which a given merchant may perform any of a variety of functions described below with respect to items for which the given merchant may have previously requested fulfillment services e.g. via registration interface . Like registration interface in one embodiment management interface may be configured to present to a merchant one or more web pages accessible via the public Internet or a private intranet e.g. a private network maintained by or on behalf of enterprise requiring some level of authentication or secured connection for access . Such a web page may include fillable forms menus executable applications e.g. applications coded in Java Javascript or another language suitable for web based execution or other web based interface elements. In other embodiments management interface may be configured to present a non web based management interface or a web services based management interface to merchants in a manner similar to that described above with respect to registration interface .

In some embodiments it is contemplated that both registration interface and management interface may be implemented as distinct or integrated portions of a web based fulfillment services portal. For example functionality associated with both registration interface and management interface may be implemented via respective web pages or groups of web pages presented to merchants as aspects of a centralized fulfillment services website. Alternatively such functionality may be presented through respective sets of web services calls presented to merchants as a general web services API for registration for and management of fulfillment services.

As described above in one embodiment after a merchant has registered an item for fulfillment services the item may be placed under the physical custody and management of fulfillment center . In such an embodiment the supply chain for items may be extended to encompass items in transit from the merchant to fulfillment center and from fulfillment center to customers in addition to the status of items within fulfillment center . In some cases the general supply chain for an item may also account for the reverse supply chain reflecting the flow of returned units from customers and or units removed from fulfillment center and conveyed back to a merchant . In some embodiments management interface may be configured to provide a given merchant with visibility into the status of the general supply chain with respect to its registered items . For example management interface may provide an indication or display of the quantity of units of a given item that are in transit between given merchant fulfillment center and or customers at any given time e.g. including tracking information for units in transit if available or applicable .

In one embodiment management interface may also provide an indication of the status of units of given item held in inventory within fulfillment center such as identifying units committed to orders but not yet picked or shipped identifying units that are spoiled or damaged or identifying any other relevant inventory status information. In some embodiments management interface may provide to a merchant explanatory information regarding problems or exceptions that arise in the supply chain for an item . For example if units of an item were damaged upon arrival at fulfillment center from merchant or were otherwise in a state or condition different from that expected from or indicated by merchant when fulfillment services were requested for the units e.g. used rather than new condition management interface may be configured to display such information to merchant and allow the merchant to specify an action to resolve the problem. For example management interface may allow the merchant to instruct that damaged items be disposed of or returned to the merchant to allow the merchant to arrange to convey additional units to fulfillment center e.g. to cover outstanding orders or to take another suitable action. More generally management interface may allow merchant to request on its own initiative that units of an item be withdrawn from inventory e.g. for return to merchant repositioned among different fulfillment centers or disposed of.

Generally speaking management interface may be configured to provide any type of function suitable for monitoring or altering the status of a given item within the extended supply chain encompassing a merchant fulfillment center and customers . In some embodiments the supply chain and management interface functionality may be extended to other third parties such as manufacturers distributors wholesalers or other parties that may be involved in transactions pertaining to given item .

In other embodiments management interface may be configured to provide functions that may not be directly related to supply chain monitoring or management. In one embodiment management interface may be configured to provide an interface through which a merchant may receive notice of customer service issues raised on behalf of customers and to participate in their resolution. For example inventory management system may be configured to receive reports of customer service issues raised with respect to particular orders and to identify the merchant s associated with those orders or specific items included in the orders . System may then direct such customer service reports associated with a given merchant to an inbox forum or other repository accessible by the given merchant via management interface . Alternatively management interface may forward such reports directly to the given merchant for example via email. In response to a given report the given merchant may participate in resolving the issue via management interface for example by arranging for an item to be returned or replaced arranging for a refund or credit to be issued to a customer or indicating another suitable action.

As mentioned previously a fulfillment services provider such as fulfillment center of enterprise may perform fulfillment services for a variety of items offered in commerce by a number of different merchants . A merchant may request such services via a self service registration interface as described above with respect to .

Once a merchant has arranged to receive fulfillment services for an item from a provider the provider may proceed to fulfill customer orders. In one embodiment a customer may place an order for an item directly with a merchant via a channel through which the merchant offers the item in commerce e.g. through e commerce or other types of channels as described above . In one such embodiment customer orders may be conveyed to fulfillment center from a merchant via inventory management system either via interface or via a different interface configured for order processing. In other embodiments customer orders may be conveyed to fulfillment center through a third party. For example a merchant may present its own order entry interface to customers and assume responsibility for conveying the order to fulfillment center for fulfillment. Alternatively a merchant may arrange for enterprise to host a commerce channel including an order entry interface on behalf of the merchant such that the merchant may not be directly involved in receiving and processing the order but may be fiscally and or legally responsible for the order.

In some circumstances a given customer may place an order for two or more different items offered in commerce by different respective merchants . For example the given customer may place separate orders with each one of the merchants ordering a first item or group of items from a first merchant a second item or group of items from a second merchant and so on in any suitable combination. Alternatively the given customer may place one or more orders via an e commerce channel that allows the given customer to concurrently view the offerings of more than one merchant . For example as described in greater detail below the given customer may use a virtual shopping cart into which items offered by different merchants can be placed for order processing. Such a shopping cart may allow the given customer s item selections for a particular order to persist across different e commerce channels. For example the contents of a customer s shopping cart may persist as the customer browses from one merchant s web site or listing page to a channel associated with another merchant . In some embodiments a virtual shopping cart may simplify the customer s ordering experience for example by allowing a customer to submit one payment transaction for all items in the cart rather than submitting separate payment transactions for each merchant associated with those items. A virtual shopping cart may also facilitate identification of opportunities to consolidate items ordered from multiple different merchants by a given customer as described in greater detail below.

In a conventional model of order fulfillment items ordered from different merchants would be fulfilled separately which may increase overall costs of fulfillment. For example packaging and shipping a group of items separately may cost more than packaging and shipping those items together. However in some embodiments a fulfillment services provider such as fulfillment center may be configured to consolidate items ordered by a single customer from multiple merchants such that at least some items ordered from different merchants are packaged and shipped as a single shipment while each merchant remains the merchant of record for its respective item . In shipping certain items together costs of fulfillment may be reduced and the resulting savings passed along to the customer or retained as profit by merchants and or enterprise . At the same time each merchant may remain the merchant of record for items it offers in commerce retaining the fiscal legal and or other obligations and benefits associated therewith. That is although the fulfillment services provider may have physical custody of items for which it provides fulfillment services on behalf of merchants the provider may simply function as an intermediary rather than a principal in transactions between merchants and customers . In various embodiments the role of the provider in fulfilling an order may or may not be visible to a customer .

One embodiment of a method of fulfilling orders for items on behalf of a number of different merchants is illustrated in . Referring collectively to operation begins in block where a fulfillment services provider such as fulfillment center receives one or more orders placed by a customer for at least two different items offered in commerce by different respective merchants . In some embodiments one or more of the merchants may have requested fulfillment services for its corresponding ordered item via a self services fulfillment services interface such as interface as described above with respect to . As described previously the order s may be received from merchants directly from the customer or via a third party. In embodiments where a virtual shopping cart is employed the relationship among the different items the different merchants and the ordering customer may be explicit or implicit in the data records generated as a result of processing the virtual shopping cart contents. For example the virtual shopping cart may assign a common order identifier to each item that forms a component of the customer s order which may facilitate the provider s combining of items into shipments as described below.

In some embodiments if multiple distinct orders are received from a single customer either from the same or different merchants the orders may be linked by the provider for example on the basis of a common customer identifier or a common order identifier that may be coordinated among merchants and the provider. Once identified as linked or related the multiple orders may be processed as a single order for the fulfillment processes described below to the extent possible. In some such embodiments the provider may only link orders that are placed or received within a given interval of time such as orders placed within one hour one day etc. The interval may depend on the mode of delivery specified by the customer. For example if a customer requests expedited shipping for a given order the interval of time for linking the given order to other orders may be relatively short to prevent delay in shipping the given order.

Subsequent to receiving the order s the specified items may be retrieved from storage block . For example in one embodiment customer orders may be processed by inventory management system to generate instructions for a human or mechanical picker to select the specified items from within inventory storage facility . It is contemplated that in some embodiments the specified items may be retrieved along with other items destined for unrelated orders. For example system may divide a number of orders up among multiple pickers in order to optimize picker efficiency particularly in instances where the items specified in a given order are widely distributed throughout fulfillment center .

At least two of the retrieved items corresponding to two different merchants may then be packaged block . For example the retrieved items may be delivered to a packaging area within fulfillment center to be appropriately packaged for shipment which may include selection of appropriate boxes or other enclosures insertion of protective packing materials and or inclusion of a packing slip invoice manifest promotional materials or other materials. In some embodiments if all items corresponding to the customer s order s are present in the fulfillment center they may be packaged as a single package for shipment or divided among multiple packages if cost item characteristics or shipper requirements dictate. In some cases fulfillment of ordered items may be distributed across different fulfillment centers for example depending on item availability.

Subsequently a package including at least two items corresponding to two different merchants may be shipped to the customer block . For example the package or packages may be tendered to a common carrier for shipping.

One embodiment of a packing slip that may be included in a package fulfilled according to the method of is shown in . In the illustrated embodiment packing slip indicates that four items are included within a shipment to the identified customer. Items A and B are indicated as having been offered by Merchant A. Item C is indicated as having been offered by Merchant B. Item D is indicated as having been offered by Merchant C. Thus Merchants A C are indicated as the merchants of record for their corresponding items A D yet the identified customer may receive items A D as a single shipment. Other situations involving different numbers of items and merchants are possible and contemplated. It is noted that various embodiments packing slip may correspond to a customer invoice billing document bill of lading or other document formatted to summarize order information.

It is further noted that in some embodiments packing slip may include multiple pages or components formatted in a variety of ways. For example items corresponding to different merchants of record may be indicated on different pages or sections of packing slip . In some cases packing slip may also include information or data in addition to information identifying merchants of record. For example such information may include terms and conditions that may apply to a given item or a transaction involving given item with respect to the merchant of record warranty information customer service information e.g. contact information for complaints returns exchanges etc. marketing or promotional information e.g. offers of future discounts coupons etc. or other types of information. In some embodiments the information included by packing slip may be customized or formatted to suit requirements or customs pertinent to the location of a customer. For example different documentation requirements may apply to transactions involving customers located in different legal jurisdictions e.g. states countries etc. . Packing slip may be appropriately formatted to take such requirements or other factors into account.

Consolidation of items ordered from multiple merchants into fewer shipments may result in lower fulfillment costs as noted above. For example by virtue of volume fulfillment center may have preferential access to discounted shipping rates relative to those available to individual merchants . Thus by allowing its items to be combined for shipment with items from another merchant a given merchant may enjoy lower costs of shipping and packaging. Moreover customer goodwill may be increased through more a timely and or convenient shopping experience. For example a customer s order may be completed more quickly through fulfillment from fulfillment center than if each merchant involved in the order fulfilled its portion separately. Moreover in addition to the possibility of reduced shipping costs to the customer fewer shipments may reduce customer inconvenience in taking delivery of items for example if the customer or the customer s agent must be present at the time of delivery.

It is noted that while order consolidation as described above may be sufficient to reduce fulfillment costs such consolidation may not be necessary to do so. In some circumstances the cost of fulfilling a single item through fulfillment center may be lower than if a merchant were to perform its own fulfillment. For example fulfillment center may benefit from greater economies of scale better infrastructure for inventory and supply chain management or other advantages that result in reduced fulfillment costs relative to a merchant performing its own fulfillment on a smaller scale.

In some instances a merchant s registration of a given item for fulfillment services via registration interface may render that item eligible for various services or promotional opportunities available to items fulfilled by fulfillment center such as a reduced cost or expedited shipping promotion in which the customer may receive free standard shipping free expedited shipping reduced cost standard or expedited shipping etc. Other promotional opportunities may include discounts against a current order credits against future orders loyalty program points discounts or credits with partner merchants or other types of promotions. Such eligibility may apply even to instances in which a customer orders a single unit of the given item without combining the given item with other items in the order. For example in one embodiment the eligibility for a promotional shipping arrangement or other promotional opportunity of items fulfilled by fulfillment center may depend on the total price of a customer s order. In such an embodiment if the given item has a price sufficient to meet the eligibility criterion the customer may receive promotional consideration upon ordering a single unit of the given item alone or in combination with other items fulfilled by fulfillment center .

In some embodiments the cost savings resulting from a merchant s self service registration for fulfillment services as described above and or the cost savings resulting from efficiencies of fulfillment center may be used to fund promotional opportunities offered to customers such as opportunities to receive reduced cost or expedited shipping item discounts or other types of promotions. In other cases such cost savings may be offered to merchants as a discount or credit against charges for fulfillment services as profit sharing or cooperative marketing funding or in another suitable fashion. Such savings may also be retained by enterprise or distributed among enterprise merchants and or customers in any combination of the foregoing ways.

As described previously various aspects of the methods and techniques described above e.g. various aspects of registration interface and or management interface may be presented to merchants or customers through the use of web pages. Generally speaking a web page may include data content as well as metadata content that may be configured to control the presentation of the data content. For example a web page may include text still images video content navigable links or other types of data content as well as metadata or instructions that may control the placement appearance interactive behavior or other presentation aspects of the data content.

Often the data and metadata contents of a web page may be coded in a language such as a version of Hypertext Markup Language HTML or any other suitable language for web based content implementation. Web page contents may be conveyed from a content source such as a web host implemented by or on behalf of fulfillment center or enterprise to a client such as a merchant or a customer over a network e.g. the Internet or a private network using a suitable transport protocol such as a version of Hypertext Transport Protocol HTTP for example. The contents may then be interpreted or processed as indicated by the coding language and metadata content by a suitable client application such as a web browser. Some exemplary types of web browsers include but are not limited to Microsoft Internet Explorer Mozilla Firefox and Opera . In addition to presenting the web page to a client the web browser may also collect and process input data from the client. For example the browser may detect the selection or activation of navigable links menu items buttons or other types of input devices that may be presented to a client and may operate in response to such selection or activation by conveying data back to the content source or another entity or system navigating to a different content source or performing another suitable action.

One embodiment of a generic web page is illustrated in . In the illustrated embodiment a browser window is shown to include web page . Among the various types of content included in web page are text content image content input features and navigable links although in other embodiments web page may include more or fewer types of content in various combinations including types not specifically enumerated above. Although the various content types are illustrated as segregated features they may be interspersed or combined in any suitable fashion according to the capabilities of the browser and language used to implement web page . In one embodiment browser window may be generated and managed by a web browser such as those mentioned above.

In one embodiment the content and placement of various content features of web page may be generated for example by or on behalf of interface to implement a web page through which a merchant may invoke the self service fulfillment services registration process described above with respect to . For example text content image content and input features may be configured to present a fulfillment service provider s request for input data to a merchant and to provide a technique for allowing merchant to enter and convey such data in response such as through presenting a form with fields in which data may be inserted by the merchant .

In another embodiment web page may be configured to implement an e commerce channel suitable for presenting offers in commerce of items to customers as well as other data potentially of interest to customers . For example a merchant may operate its own e commerce hosting facilities generating its own content and conveying it to customers via web pages . Alternatively a merchant may arrange with another party such as enterprise to present such web pages on its behalf In another embodiment enterprise or another party may implement an e commerce marketplace such as described above via one or more web pages . For example a number of offers from various merchants for a particular item or for multiple items may be displayed to a customer via web page .

In the foregoing discussion various techniques to facilitate merchants registration of their inventory items for fulfillment services were described and examples of how customer orders for such inventory items might be fulfilled were described. As noted above a merchant that elects to obtain inventory fulfillment services from a third party fulfiller such as enterprise may be able to reduce the costs of managing storing and delivering inventory items to customers . For example through aggregation of inventory from various merchants and or its own inventory enterprise may be able to leverage economies of scale that reduce per unit fulfillment costs relative to what individual merchants may achieve on a smaller scale. Also by obtaining fulfillment services from a third party provider a merchant may be able to offer customers fulfillment services that might be less economical for the merchant to provide on its own. For example an enterprise that performs a large volume of inventory fulfillment business may be able to negotiate more favorable shipping terms than an individual merchant which may make it economically feasible for a merchant to offer free reduced price or expedited shipping services to its customers . In some instances by obtaining fulfillment services from an enterprise a merchant may be able to offer other value added services to its customers such as gift wrapping services print on demand services item customization services or other types of services that might be prohibitively expensive or inefficient for an individual merchant to implement.

When a particular merchant elects to obtain fulfillment services for some or all of items from a fulfillment services provider such as enterprise the particular merchant may be able to reflect the benefits of such services in a manner that is relatively transparent to its customers . For example customers shopping with the particular merchant need not be aware of its fulfillment relationship with enterprise . Such customers may simply note that they are eligible to receive various services from the particular merchant such as expedited discounted or free shipping or other value added services. In some cases a customer s eligibility for various fulfillment services options such as the shipping or value added services mentioned may depend upon the customer s relationship with the particular merchant . For example the customer s eligibility may depend on the total value of items or the specific types of items ordered from the particular merchant in a specific transaction such that certain services become available to customers dependent on their level of spending or the types of items selected. In other cases a customer s eligibility for various fulfillment services options may depend upon the customer s status such as whether the customer has a prior purchasing history with the particular merchant or has paid for or otherwise earned the privilege of receiving preferential fulfillment services. For example the particular merchant may establish a loyalty program through which it may offer beneficial fulfillment services to repeat customers .

The situation may become more complex when a particular customer engages in transactions with a number of different merchants where multiple ones of the merchants may obtain fulfillment services from an enterprise for their respective items for example as shown in the embodiment of . Even though merchants may be distinct fiscal entities they may share common fulfillment processes for at least some of their inventory by virtue of their common use of fulfillment services offered by enterprise . If a particular customer s shopping activity across several merchants can be consolidated or otherwise linked it may be possible to present cost savings or special fulfillment features such as the shipping related features mentioned above to a particular customer even if that customer s order includes items for which different merchants are merchants of record.

For example as described above if a particular customer shops from a single merchant and places an order that satisfies a spending threshold the particular customer may be offered a fulfillment services feature relating to order shipping e.g. reduced cost or expedited shipping or processing e.g. expedited order processing free or reduced cost gift wrapping that would not have been offered otherwise. In one embodiment if a particular customer who orders items from a number of different merchants who share common fulfillment services the orders placed with respect to the multiple merchants may be consolidated or aggregated for the purpose of offering fulfillment services features to the particular customer . For example if a customer orders items from merchants and each of which has arranged for the ordered items to be fulfilled from fulfillment center in one embodiment the total value of the customer s order from both merchants may be used to determine the fulfillment services that the customer is eligible to receive.

In some instances such order aggregation or consolidation may enable merchants to provide fulfillment services to customers that might otherwise be economically infeasible. For example viewed in isolation a particular customer s order of items from a single merchant may be insufficiently profitable to justify providing extensive value added fulfillment services or discounts to that customer. However if the items are part of the particular customer s larger transaction among several merchants then the total value of the transaction coupled with the economies of scale resulting from generating more fulfillment transactions through fulfillment center may warrant passing savings along to customers in the form of enhanced fulfillment options.

In the following discussion several techniques for consolidating the fulfillment of items ordered by a customer from multiple different merchants are described. In one embodiment as mentioned previously such consolidation may be implemented via a virtual shopping cart that allows the customer s shopping session to persist across the customer s interactions with several merchants allowing the customer s various items to be fulfilled concurrently from fulfillment center e.g. being shipped within a single package or shipment while recording the transaction of each item with respect to its corresponding merchant as the merchant of record for that transaction. In another embodiment a customer may engage in separate ordering transactions with various merchants but these transactions may be linked after the fact as part of a larger order. In some embodiments the merchants in the following discussion may have registered to obtain fulfillment services for their items via a self service registration interface such as interface described above. However it is noted that the use of self service fulfillment services registration interface is not a prerequisite for the techniques that follow and that merchants may arrange to obtain fulfillment services for items via any suitable approach whether highly automated or requiring considerable human intervention.

As shown merchants may be configured to present respective shopping interfaces to customers . Generally speaking a given shopping interface may be configured to present information to customers about items that are offered by a corresponding merchant . For example a given shopping interface may utilize web or web services based protocols e.g. HTTP or other suitable protocol s to convey text images audio video or any other suitable type of information regarding an item to a customer for display or presentation. Such information may be configured to present any suitable information that may be relevant to a customer s shopping experience. For example and without limitation such information may describe or depict an item indicate its cost describe conditions or procedures for ordering the item illustrate how item is related to other items that may be offered by a particular merchant describe the feedback of other customers regarding an item and or other matters pertaining to a customer s shopping experience. In some embodiments shopping interface may be interactive in that the content or information it provides to a customer may depend on input received from the customer. For example shopping interface may be configured to respond to information requests made by a customer such as by selecting displayed links radio buttons menus or other input techniques presented to the customer .

In some embodiments shopping interface may be configured to implement features in addition to conveying information regarding items to customers . For example shopping interface may be configured to display information regarding merchant policies to manage individual customer accounts and their associated credentials to present an ordering and or payment interface through which customers may indicate their intention to order one or more items from a merchant and may supply payment and shipping details or any other suitable customer related functions.

In the illustrated embodiment the shopping interfaces presented to customers by at least two different merchants may be distinct from and independent of one another. For example merchants may present respective shopping interfaces to a customer where the implementation and or operation of interface does not depend in any way on that of interface . In such an embodiment merchants may present shopping interfaces that are configured for the respective needs or preferences of merchants . For example different merchants may implement their respective shopping interfaces to have different customized features such as appearance e.g. look and feel branding content interactivity and or customer feature support. By implementing distinct shopping interfaces different merchants may retain control over numerous customer facing aspects of their business even if several of the different merchants receive order fulfillment services from a common fulfillment services provider such as shown in .

It is noted that in embodiments where merchants implement support for a virtual shopping cart as described below their shopping interfaces may still be distinct and independent from one another. That is while various merchants may rely on another entity such as a fulfillment services provider to provide virtual shopping cart functionality their reliance on the other entity may be independent from how or whether other merchants similarly rely on the other entity for virtual shopping cart or other services. For example various ones of merchants may reconfigure their respective shopping interfaces may add or withdraw their support for a virtual shopping cart interface or may initiate or terminate their relationship with a third party fulfillment services provider without notice to and without affecting the shopping interfaces or other behavior of other ones of merchants .

As an alternative to presenting to customers a shopping interface that is independent of the interfaces of other merchants a particular merchant may share some or all aspects of its shopping interface with another merchant . For example the particular merchant may utilize another merchant s descriptive content e.g. descriptions or depictions of various items interface framework e.g. the placement and or appearance of display features as presented to customers and or functional framework e.g. the types and behavior of interactive or non interactive functional features presented to customers such that when the information or functionality relied upon changes the changes are reflected by each of the merchants that share the changed material.

In one embodiment OMS may be configured to provide a virtual shopping cart interface to the customers who shop for various items offered by merchants . Generally speaking a virtual shopping cart may be configured to persistently store a record of the associations between a particular customer and the items that have been selected by that customer for ordering as well as the merchants offering the selected items . In various embodiments the selected items may remain associated with the particular customer via the virtual shopping cart for an indefinite period of time e.g. until the particular customer completes the ordering transaction or removes a selected item from the cart or the contents of the virtual cart may expire after a defined period of time e.g. hours days weeks etc. .

In one embodiment the particular customer s virtual shopping cart may be associated with a user account maintained on behalf of the particular customer by OMS . For example the user account may be associated with unique credentials corresponding to the particular customer such as a username or email address and a password and may persistently store ordering details associated with the particular customer such as shipping address information credit card information contact information or other customer specific details. In another embodiment the particular customer s virtual shopping cart may be transiently associated with the particular customer via a session identifier or other impermanent identifier. In such an embodiment the particular customer may be required to input whatever ordering details are necessary to complete the ordering process and if the session identifier expires before the ordering process is completed the virtual shopping cart may be deleted or reset.

Merchants may implement support for a virtual shopping cart interface provided by OMS in any of a number of suitable ways. In one embodiment a merchant may associate customer selectable Add to cart Uniform Resource Indicators URIs with each of the items the merchant offers to customers . Each of these URIs may refer to an interface maintained by OMS and may be displayed to a customer e.g. via a web page when the customer is viewing other information associated with the corresponding item . When a customer selects the URI corresponding to a given item e.g. by clicking on or otherwise selecting a link button or other input feature displayed via web page such as an Add to cart button OMS may responsively place the given item in the customer s virtual shopping cart e.g. by creating or updating a representation of the cart that reflects the customer s selection of the given item .

In one embodiment when the customer selects the given item s URI in order to place it in a virtual shopping cart the customer may navigate away from a web page hosted or maintained by the merchant to a landing page presented by OMS . In one such embodiment the customer may be offered the opportunity to return to the merchant s site to continue shopping to navigate to a different merchant to complete the ordering process and check out to manage the contents of the virtual shopping cart or to perform other functions. In another embodiment when the customer selects the given item s Add to cart URI OMS may be configured to add the item to the customer s virtual shopping cart without the customer navigating away from the merchant offering the given item .

Still other embodiments of techniques for placing a given item in a virtual shopping cart are possible and contemplated. For example rather than communicating the given item s selection to OMS as soon as it is selected by a customer a merchant may queue or batch records of the selection of multiple items either by a single customer or by multiple customers . The merchant may then convey these records to OMS at a later time for example when a customer navigates away from the merchant s site or elects to finish the ordering process.

In another embodiment instead of relying on client server communications between OMS and a customer s or merchant s system to manage the state of the virtual shopping cart e.g. via HTTP requests or other types of interaction a virtual shopping cart may be implemented as a client side application or applet configured to execute on a system associated with customer . For example functionality to detect a customer s selection of items to be added to a virtual shopping cart and to manage the current state of the virtual shopping cart may be implemented as a Java Javascript or other type of application that may be executable within a browser environment executing on a computer system associated with the customer . In such an embodiment management of the virtual shopping cart may occur primarily within the customer s system as the customer navigates to various merchants . In one embodiment the client side virtual shopping cart may be configured to communicate with OMS only after the customer has elected to finalize an order based on the selections in the cart though in other embodiments the client side virtual shopping cart may communicate with OMS or other entities as needed.

In block a particular customer may begin browsing the items offered by a given merchant . For example the particular customer may visit a network accessible description of the items offered by given merchant that may be presented as a web site using web based protocols or as another type of interactive network accessible information source.

The particular customer may select a particular item offered by the given merchant to be the subject of a transaction such as a purchase rental or other suitable type of transaction block . For example the particular customer may select an Add to cart button hyperlink or other type of input feature displayed on a web page that is associated with the particular item and presented to the particular customer by or on behalf of the given merchant .

In response to the particular customer s selection the particular item may be indicated within a virtual shopping cart corresponding to the particular customer block . For example as mentioned above selection of the particular item may be conveyed to OMS which may be configured to update a representation of the virtual shopping cart associated with the particular customer to reflect the selection. In various embodiments as noted above the particular customer s selection may result in immediate navigation to a landing page hosted by OMS or may result in the selection being communicated to OMS without the particular customer navigating away from the given merchant s display. In some embodiments indication of the particular item within the virtual shopping cart may be dependent upon the particular customer authenticating himself or herself with respect to an existing user account maintained by OMS for example by providing a user ID or email address and password to OMS .

The particular customer may be notified regarding the given merchant s fulfillment relationship with enterprise block . While this is shown in as occurring subsequent to selection of the particular item such notification may also occur prior to selection of that or any other item . Such notification may convey different types of information depending on the fulfillment relationship that exists between the given merchant and enterprise . For example the particular customer may be notified that the given merchant has partnered with enterprise to receive fulfillment services and that the particular customer may choose to place other items in the virtual shopping cart for payment and fulfillment. These other items may be offered by the given merchant enterprise or other merchants that have registered to receive fulfillment services from enterprise .

In some embodiments as part of notification of the given merchant s fulfillment relationship the particular customer may also be notified that items placed in the virtual shopping cart and ordered together may be consolidated for the purpose of determining the fulfillment services available to the particular customer for that order. For example if the particular customer is eligible for reduced price free or expedited shipping from the given merchant the particular customer may be notified that such features may also apply to other items offered by other merchants that are placed in the virtual shopping cart. If a threshold requirement applies for certain fulfillment services such as a minimum total value of the items ordered the particular customer may be notified that the threshold will be evaluated based on the entire contents of the virtual shopping cart even though various items may have been selected from different merchants . In various embodiments the value of items may correspond to the price charged for the transaction and may be inclusive or exclusive of discounts surcharges fees taxes or other accounting items that may apply depending on the merchant the customer and or the item .

After selecting the particular item the particular customer may continue shopping with respect to items presented by the given merchant block or may select a different merchant that also supports the virtual shopping cart managed by OMS block . In one embodiment operation may then proceed from block . It is noted that in some embodiments items that were previously selected by the particular customer may persist in the virtual shopping cart regardless of how the particular customer navigates among the various merchants . For example the particular customer may navigate to a merchant by clicking on a referral URI manually entering a URI into a browser selecting the merchant from a list of bookmarks or favorites or using any other suitable technique. In one embodiment the contents of the particular customer s virtual shopping cart may persist even if the particular customer navigates away from the given merchant to non commerce site or a merchant that does not support the virtual shopping cart.

The particular customer may instead elect to complete the shopping process and request that an order corresponding to the selected items be finalized block . For example the particular customer may select a checkout button or URI presented by the given merchant or by OMS . In one embodiment in response to the particular customer indicating a request to finalize an order for fulfillment OMS may be configured to collect whatever information from the particular customer is necessary to complete the shopping transaction block .

Generally speaking finalizing an order may encompass those actions defined by a merchant or by OMS to be prerequisite to completing the shopping transaction for items that have been selected. In various embodiments such actions may include verifying the particular customer s ability to pay and or collecting payment or collecting or verifying other types of customer information. For example if the particular customer has not previously supplied authentication information corresponding to an existing user account OMS may prompt the particular customer for such information or to an establish an account. OMS may also collect shipping billing and or payment information from the particular customer or may verify that information already on file should be used for the transaction. OMS may also notify the particular customer of savings or fulfillment features the customer is eligible to receive on the basis of the selected items . For example if the particular customer has satisfied a threshold to receive upgraded or discounted shipping OMS may notify the customer and or display the value of the service as a discount or credit applied to the customer s order. It is noted that in various embodiments a customer may or may not be able to cancel an order once it has been finalized.

After collecting the information necessary to process the transaction OMS may notify the fulfillment center to select and ship the ordered items to the particular customer block . In one embodiment the fulfillment process described above with respect to may be employed. For example the various items ordered by the particular customer may be retrieved from storage packaged and shipped such that at least two different items offered by two different merchants are shipped in the same package to the particular customer . The different merchants may be indicated as the merchants of record for their respective items for example on a packing slip as described above with respect to .

As just described in some embodiments a virtual shopping cart interface provided by OMS may be configured such that customers may consolidate or combine a number of different items offered by different merchants for fulfillment. By consolidating the fulfillment of such orders it may be possible to pass along to customers some of the economies of scale enjoyed by merchants who elect to obtain fulfillment services for their items from a high volume fulfillment services provider such as enterprise . For example such consolidation may enable merchants to offer customers reduced cost or enhanced shipping services or other value added fulfillment services as mentioned previously. Such features may serve to increase the volume of business received by merchants which may generate an increased volume of fulfillment transactions through fulfillment center . In turn such increased volume may reduce the incremental cost of fulfilling a given item or customer order creating further cost savings in a virtuous cycle that may benefit enterprise merchants and or customers .

In the foregoing discussion items from multiple merchants may be identified as part of a particular customer s single order before the customer finalizes the order e.g. by tendering payment . For example the virtual shopping cart may function analogously to a real shopping cart enabling the particular customer to add or remove items until the customer determines that shopping is complete and then allowing the particular customer to complete the ordering process for the multiple items in the cart through a single payment or order completion transaction.

In an alternative embodiment however the consolidation of multiple items from multiple merchants may be performed after the customer has completed an order transaction with only one or fewer than all of the merchants . It may be the case that certain merchants may wish to register to receive fulfillment services from enterprise for their inventory items yet are unable to or do not wish to utilize a virtual shopping cart interface such as may be provided by OMS as described above. For example for technical or business reasons a merchant may wish to maintain its own order entry and payment functionality rather than relying on a virtual shopping cart or other functionality presented by a third party.

In block a particular customer may order one or more items offered by a given merchant . For example the particular customer may visit a network accessible description of the items offered by given merchant that may be presented as a web site using web based protocols or as another type of interactive network accessible information source. The particular customer may browse and select items offered by the given merchant according to any suitable interface presented by the given merchant . For example in one embodiment the given merchant may present its own shopping cart interface that may be functionally similar to the virtual shopping cart described previously except that the shopping cart may be specific to the given merchant that is it may not allow the particular customer to add items other than those offered by the given merchant . Once the particular customer has completed selecting items he or she may complete the ordering transaction with respect to the selected items via any suitable interface provided by the given merchant . For example given merchant may present its own order management interface configured to collect customer information shipping information payment information and or other details needed to complete the order. Alternatively given merchant may arrange with one or more third parties to perform one or more of the tasks involved in finalizing customer orders. As noted above the underlying transaction that is the subject of the customer s order with respect to items may be any suitable type of transaction such as a purchase lease rental or other type of transaction.

The particular customer may be notified regarding the given merchant s fulfillment relationship with enterprise block . While this is shown in as occurring subsequent to the particular customer s placement of an order such notification may also occur prior to order placement. For example notification may occur when the particular customer begins browsing items offered by the given merchant when the particular customer selects particular items to order or at any other suitable time s . Such notification may convey different types of information depending on the fulfillment relationship that exists between the given merchant and enterprise . For example the particular customer may be notified that the given merchant has partnered with enterprise to receive fulfillment services.

In some embodiments as part of notification of the given merchant s fulfillment relationship the particular customer may also be notified that items ordered from one or more different merchants that have registered to receive fulfillment services from enterprise may be consolidated for fulfillment. The particular customer may also be notified that a subsequent order placed with the one or more different merchants may be consolidated with the current order placed with the given merchant for the purpose of determining the fulfillment services available to the particular customer for the orders placed with the various merchants . For example if the particular customer is eligible for reduced price free or expedited shipping from the given merchant the particular customer may be notified that such features may also apply to other items offered by other merchants that are subsequently ordered by the particular customer . If a threshold requirement applies for certain fulfillment services such as a minimum total value of the items ordered the particular customer may be notified the present order placed with the given merchant may be combined with future orders placed with different merchants for the purpose of determining whether the threshold has been satisfied.

It is noted that in some embodiments notification to the particular customer regarding the fulfillment relationship of given merchant and or other merchants may be omitted. In some such embodiments the various actions described below may occur without notice to the particular customer or notice may be provided after the fact.

A unique identifier may then be assigned to the particular customer s order block . In some embodiments assignment of the identifier may occur during completion of the order described above with respect to block . In one embodiment the unique identifier may be configured to uniquely identify both the particular customer and the order that the particular customer has placed with the given merchant . In one embodiment the unique identifier may be an alphanumeric token that may be displayed to the particular customer . In some such embodiments the unique identifier may be presented to the particular customer along with a notification that the customer may provide the token when placing an order with a different merchant in order to obtain enhanced or reduced cost fulfillment features. In another embodiment the unique identifier may be implemented via a cookie that is persistently associated with the particular customer s web browser state. In some such embodiments the reading and writing of such cookies by merchants may be accomplished transparently with respect to the particular customer e.g. without requiring action on the particular customer s part . In still another embodiment the unique identifier may be conveyed to OMS which may be configured to manage the unique identifier on behalf of the particular customer . For example OMS may be configured to associate the unique identifier with the particular customer via an existing account managed by OMS . Other embodiments employing other implementations of a unique identifier are possible and contemplated. It is contemplated that in some embodiments the unique identifier may be configured to encode a number of distinct data items that may be separately parsed. For example it may be possible to determine that different unique identifiers correspond to different orders placed by the same customer .

Subsequent to placing an order with the given merchant the particular customer may initiate an order one or more items from one or more different merchants block . For example the particular customer may navigate to a network accessible description of items offered by a different merchant via a web site or other interface and may place an order according to the procedures established by that merchant which may be similar to or different from the ordering procedures used by given merchant . While this discussion may refer to orders placed with only two merchants for simplicity it is contemplated that any number of orders placed by the particular customer may be related or consolidated using the techniques described.

The unique identifier s associated with the particular customer s prior order s may be evaluated block . For example in embodiments where the unique identifier is provided to the particular customer as a token or string the particular customer may manually enter the unique identifier during or subsequent to completing the ordering process with respect to the one or more different merchants . In other embodiments such as those involving browser cookies a merchant or OMS may access the unique identifier without the particular customer s intervention.

In one embodiment evaluation of the unique identifier may include determining whether the unique identifier is still valid. In one embodiment a unique identifier corresponding to a prior order from the given merchant may remain valid for a fixed period of time such as a number of hours or days from when the prior order was completed. In another embodiment the unique identifier of a prior order may remain valid until the prior order has begun or alternatively completed the fulfillment process e.g. until picking of items from storage commences or until the order is shipped . In yet another embodiment the unique identifier may remain valid indefinitely or until some other event occurs. In some embodiments unique identifiers may be self validating. For example they may be encrypted or encoded in a manner that reflects the conditions under which they expire such as by including a timestamp field. In other embodiments the validity of unique identifiers may be checked and maintained by a third party such as by OMS .

Fulfillment services may then be offered to the particular customer dependent on the orders that are linked or related by the unique identifier s block . In various embodiments the particular customer may be offered shipping options or other value added fulfillment services dependent upon the presence of a valid unique identifier dependent upon information about the prior order s encoded in the unique identifier or dependent upon information about the prior order s obtained from a third party e.g. OMS dependent upon the unique identifier where the features offered might not have been offered in the absence of the valid unique identifier.

For example the particular customer may be offered the opportunity to have the items ordered from the different merchant s shipped together with items in the prior order from the given merchant . Alternatively the particular customer may be offered a fulfillment service or discount dependent upon whether the prior and current orders satisfy a threshold criterion such as a total value or inclusion of a certain type of item . In this case information about the prior order s may be obtained either from decoding the unique identifier itself or from accessing a record of the prior order s dependent upon the unique identifier and evaluated with respect to the threshold criterion. For example if the particular customer is to receive free shipping dependent upon satisfying a minimum total order price the value of the items from the current and prior orders may be totaled in evaluating whether the requirement has been satisfied.

Optionally the particular customer may be offered a discount or credit dependent on the orders that are linked or related by the unique identifier s block . For example in an embodiment where the availability of various fulfillment services depends on whether the customer s order satisfies a threshold criterion it may be the case that the particular customer s prior order with the given merchant did not satisfy the threshold e.g. the total order value was below the threshold . As a result the particular customer may have paid a surcharge or failed to receive a discount that would have been available had the threshold been satisfied. However when the particular customer s orders among various merchants are considered together including prior and subsequent orders related by a valid unique identifier the threshold may be satisfied.

This situation may be handled in a number of different ways in various embodiments. For example suppose the particular customer was charged a shipping fee by the given merchant because the items ordered from the given merchant did not satisfy a threshold to receive free shipping. Shortly thereafter suppose the particular customer places an additional order with another merchant supplying a valid unique identifier that relates the later order with the prior order where the combination of items ordered from both merchants satisfies the free shipping threshold. In one embodiment the second merchant may offer a discount for the entire shipping fee previously paid by the particular customer . The second merchant may then recoup a portion of the discount from the given merchant . Alternatively the second merchant may offer the particular customer a prorated discount for a portion of the previously paid shipping fee and may instruct the given merchant to award a similar discount retroactively or may instruct the particular customer to return to the given merchant to obtain a retroactive discount. In still another embodiment instead of discounts or credits against current or prior orders the particular customer may be offered credits against future orders. It is contemplated that any suitable combination of retroactive current or future discounts or credits including none at all may be offered to the particular customer by any suitable combination of merchants including merchants who are not necessarily parties to a current transaction with the particular customer .

It is also contemplated that in some embodiments the task of identifying opportunities for customer discounts or credits based on multiple orders may be performed by a third party in combination with or instead of merchants themselves. For example in one embodiment merchants may take orders customers and submit the orders to a third party system such as OMS . OMS may be configured to analyze the submitted orders to identify orders from different merchants that were placed by the same customer . For example OMS may analyze the orders on the basis of a unique identifier e.g. a user ID and password combination supplied by the customer when placing each of the orders or another suitable type of unique identifier as described above the billing or shipping address supplied with the orders or other suitable factors. In response to identifying orders multiple orders of a customer that can be consolidated for fulfillment or are otherwise eligible for enhanced fulfillment services or discounts when considered in the aggregate OMS may be configured to perform such consolidation or award the services or discounts either in conjunction with merchants or without requiring activity on the merchants part. In some embodiments OMS may be configured to notify the customer of his or her eligibility for consolidated order fulfillment additional fulfillment services or discounts and may request the customer s authorization to perform or award some or all of these. In other embodiments OMS may be configured to consolidate orders or award enhanced services or discounts without the customer s consent.

After two or more orders placed by the particular customer have been identified as linked or related dependent upon unique identifier s fulfillment center may be instructed to select and ship the ordered items to the particular customer block . For example after taking the particular customer s orders various merchants may be configured to convey the orders to OMS or directly to fulfillment center e.g. to inventory management system for fulfillment. In one embodiment the fulfillment process described above with respect to may be employed. For example the various items ordered by the particular customer may be retrieved from storage packaged and shipped such that at least two different items offered by two different merchants are shipped in the same package to the particular customer . The different merchants may be indicated as the merchants of record for their respective items for example on a packing slip as described above with respect to .

It is contemplated that in some embodiments any of the methods or techniques described above may be implemented as program instructions and data capable of being stored or conveyed via a computer accessible medium. Such methods or techniques may include for example and without limitation the functions of inventory management system interface database and or order management system as well as the methods illustrated in or or any suitable variations or portions thereof. Such program instructions may also be executed to perform computational functions in support of the methods and techniques described above for example to instantiate operating system functionality application functionality and or any other suitable functions.

One exemplary embodiment of a computer system including computer accessible media is illustrated in . In the illustrated embodiment computer system includes one or more processors coupled to a system memory via an input output I O interface . Computer system further includes a network interface coupled to I O interface . In some embodiments it is contemplated that inventory management system or order management system may collectively or individually be implemented using a single instance of computer system while in other embodiments multiple such systems may be configured to host different portions or instances of inventory management system or order management system . For example in one embodiment some data sources or services e.g. purchasing management services may be implemented via instances of computer system that are distinct from those instances implementing other data sources or services e.g. order entry fulfillment services . It is noted that in some embodiments the functions of inventory management system or order management system as variously described hereinabove may be implemented as part of a single software or software hardware system or may be partitioned in any suitable fashion into a number of distinct modules procedures or other functional portions. The resulting portions of inventory management system and or order management system may then be implemented as a unified or distributed system among one or several instances of computer system for example as instructions executable by one or more of processors .

In various embodiments computer system may be a uniprocessor system including one processor or a multiprocessor system including several processors e.g. two four eight or another suitable number . Processors may be any suitable processor capable of executing instructions. For example in various embodiments processors may be a general purpose or embedded processor implementing any of a variety of instruction set architectures ISAs such as the x86 PowerPC SPARC or MIPS ISAs or any other suitable ISA. In multiprocessor systems each of processors may commonly but not necessarily implement the same ISA.

System memory may be configured to store instructions and data accessible by process . In various embodiments system memory may be implemented using any suitable memory technology such as static random access memory SRAM synchronous dynamic RAM SDRAM nonvolatile Flash type memory or any other type of memory. In the illustrated embodiment program instructions and data implementing desired functions such as those described above are shown stored within system memory as code .

In one embodiment I O interface may be configured to coordinate I O traffic between processor system memory and any peripheral devices in the device including network interface or other peripheral interfaces. In some embodiments I O interface may perform any necessary protocol timing or other data transformations to convert data signals from one component e.g. system memory into a format suitable for use by another component e.g. processor . In some embodiments I O interface may include support for devices attached through various types of peripheral buses such as a variant of the Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus standard or the Universal Serial Bus USB standard for example. In some embodiments the function of I O interface may be split into two or more separate components such as a north bridge and a south bridge for example. Also in some embodiments some or all of the functionality of I O interface such as an interface to system memory may be incorporated directly into processor .

Network interface may be configured to allow data to be exchanged between computer system and other devices attached to a network such as other computer systems or communications devices for example. In particular network interface may be configured to allow communication between computer system and client devices and or other servers services through various communications channels via network s . These client devices may include various computing and communications devices which may include elements similar to those of computer system . In particular client devices may include devices associated with various ones of customers such as personal computers telephony devices or other network attached computing devices customers may employ to access network services such as the e commerce services offered by merchants and or enterprise for example. The communications channels may include but are not limited to conventional and mobile telephone and text messaging communications channels. Network interface may commonly support one or more wireless networking protocols e.g. Wi Fi IEEE 802.11 or another wireless networking standard . However in various embodiments network interface may support communication via any suitable wired or wireless general data networks such as other types of Ethernet network for example. Additionally network interface may support communication via telecommunications telephony networks such as analog voice networks or digital fiber communications networks via storage area networks such as Fibre Channel SANs or via any other suitable type of network and or protocol.

In some embodiments system memory may be one embodiment of a computer accessible medium configured to store program instructions and data as described above. However in other embodiments program instructions and or data may be received sent or stored upon different types of computer accessible media. Generally speaking a computer accessible medium may include storage media or memory media such as magnetic or optical media e.g. disk or CD DVD ROM coupled to computer system via I O interface . A computer accessible medium may also include any volatile or non volatile media such as RAM e.g. SDRAM DDR SDRAM RDRAM SRAM etc. ROM etc that may be included in some embodiments of computer system as system memory or another type of memory. Program instructions and data stored via a computer accessible medium may be transmitted by transmission media or signals such as electrical electromagnetic or digital signals which may be conveyed via a communication medium such as a network and or a wireless link such as may be implemented via network interface .

Additionally it is contemplated that any of the methods or techniques or suitable portions thereof described above and illustrated for example in or may be implemented as a web service that may be performed on behalf of clients requesting such a service. Generally speaking providing a function or service as a web service may encompass providing any of a variety of standardized APIs configured to allow different software programs to communicate e.g. to request services and respond to such requests in an autonomous web based and typically platform independent manner. For example an enterprise may choose to expose certain enterprise data e.g. catalog data inventory data customer data or other types of data and or certain enterprise functions e.g. fulfillment service request processing functions query functions electronic commerce functions generic data storage or computational functions etc. to external clients e.g. merchants or customers via a web services interface. Applications could then access the exposed data and or functions via the web services interface even though the accessing application may be configured to execute on an entirely different platform e.g. a different operating system or system architecture than the platform hosting the exposed data or functions. For example a merchant may perform self service registration of an item for fulfillment services or may inform fulfillment center of an order to be fulfilled through web services calls exposed by interface .

In some embodiments provisioning a web service may encompass the use of particular protocols which may be executable e.g. as part of code to publish available web services to potential users to describe the interfaces of web services sufficiently to allow users to invoke web services properly to allow users to select and differentiate among web services for a particular transaction and to provide a format for exchanging web services data in a flexible and platform independent manner. Specifically in one embodiment a provider of a web service may register the service using a version of the Universal Discovery Description and Integration UDDI protocol which may function as a general directory through which potential resource users may locate web services of interest. The web service provider may also publish specific details regarding how a well formed web services request from a user should be formatted e.g. what specific parameters are required or allowed the data type or format to be used for a given parameter etc. . For example such interface details may be published e.g. within a UDDI directory entry using a version of the Web Services Description Language WSDL .

In many embodiments web services request and response data is exchanged between a client and the service provider through the use of messages or documents formatted as platform independent structured data such as a document formatted in compliance with a version of eXtensible Markup Language XML . For example in one embodiment a web services request to provide inventory health information for a given inventory item may be embodied in an XML document including fields identifying the item of interest the type of data requested e.g. inventory health data and possibly other fields in which each field is delimited by an XML tag describing the type of data the field represents. The response to such a request from the web service provider may include an XML document containing the requested data. In some embodiments web services related documents may be transmitted between applications making requests and targeted web services using a web based data transfer protocol such as a version of the Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP for example.

Different types of web services requests and responses may yield XML documents that bear little content in common which may complicate the handling and interpretation of such documents. For example in different versions of a free form XML document specifying a web services request the actual web service that is requested may appear at different places within different document versions which may require a recipient of the document to buffer or parse a good deal of document data before understanding what the document is for. Consequently in some embodiments the XML documents containing web services request response data may encapsulated within additional XML data used to define a messaging framework e.g. a generic format for exchanging documents or messages having arbitrary content. For example in one embodiment web services requests or responses may be XML documents formatted according to a version of the Simple Object Access Protocol SOAP which in various versions may define distinct document sections such as an envelope e.g. which may include a specification of the document type the intended recipient web service etc. as well as a message body that may include arbitrary XML message data e.g. the particular details of the web services request . However in some embodiments web services may be implemented using different protocols and standards for publishing services and formatting and exchanging messages.

Additionally in some embodiments a web services system may be implemented without using document based techniques such as SOAP type protocols. For example as an alternative to a document based approach a web service may be implemented using a Representational State Transfer REST type architecture. Generally speaking in REST type architectures web services requests may be formed as commands conveyed via a transport protocol such as PUT or GET commands conveyed via a version of the HTTP protocol. Those parameters of the request that might be embedded within a document in a document based web services architecture may instead be included as command parameters in a REST type architecture. Other suitable configurations of web services architectures are possible and contemplated.

It is noted that the order in which actions are taken in the above description e.g. with respect to discussions of flow charts is merely exemplary and that in alternative embodiments the actions described may be performed in any suitable order. Also it is contemplated that in other embodiments certain actions may be added or other actions omitted.

Although the embodiments above have been described in considerable detail numerous variations and modifications will become apparent to those skilled in the art once the above disclosure is fully appreciated. It is intended that the following claims be interpreted to embrace all such variations and modifications.

