---

title: Method and system for automatic content recognition protocols
abstract: Systems, methods and/or techniques for automatic content recognition protocols are described. A method may be executed in a media device having an automatic content recognition application programming interface. The method may include generating one or more video fingerprints that correspond to video content that displays on the media device. The method may include communicating the one or more video fingerprints to an automatic content recognition backend system. The automatic content recognition backend system compares the one or more video fingerprints with one or more stored video fingerprints and determines whether a match occurs. If the match occurs, one or more event identifiers associated with the one or more video fingerprints may be received from the automatic content recognition backend system. The one or more event identifiers may be communicated to an application server, and one or more interactive events may be received from the application server.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08776105&OS=08776105&RS=08776105
owner: Tuner Broadcasting System, Inc.
number: 08776105
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121228
---
Each of the above referenced applications is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Certain embodiments of the invention relate to content recognition. More specifically certain embodiments of the invention relate to a method and system for automatic content recognition protocols.

Smart or connected televisions TVs may receive data from data networks such as Internet networks that allow a viewer to not only access broadcast digital content but also receive multimedia content. In addition viewers without Smart TVs can access additional content via a smart phone or tablet. With the proliferation of connected TVs and wireless communication devices such as smartphones and tablets content or network providers now have a plethora of avenues for distributing media including programming advertisements and interactive content.

Further limitations and disadvantages of conventional and traditional approaches will become apparent to one of skill in the art through comparison of such systems with some aspects of the present invention as set forth in the remainder of the present application with reference to the drawings.

A system and or method is provided for automatic content recognition protocols substantially as shown in and or described in connection with at least one of the figures as set forth more completely in the claims.

These and other advantages aspects and novel features of the present invention as well as details of an illustrated embodiment thereof will be more fully understood from the following description and drawings.

Certain embodiments of the invention may be found in a method and system for automatic content recognition ACR protocols. Various embodiments of the invention may utilize ACR techniques described herein to detect matches between fingerprints associated with media that is displayed on a media device and fingerprints hosted by an ACR backend. In response to detecting a fingerprint match the content recognition system may cause an interactive event to be communicated to and be executed on the media device. A viewer may interact with the interactive event and the interactive event may be associated with a customer account hosted on an application server. Various embodiments of the present invention may utilize one or more interfaces to communicate between components and the interfaces may conform to a communication protocol.

In various embodiments of the invention a method may be executed in a media device that is operable to play video content. The media device may comprise an automatic content recognition application programming interface which may be operable to generate one or more video fingerprints that correspond to video content that displays on the media device. The automatic content recognition application programming interface may be operable to communicate the one or more video and or audio fingerprints to an automatic content recognition backend system. The automatic content recognition backend system may compare the one or more video and or audio fingerprints with one or more stored video fingerprints and determines whether a match occurs. If the match occurs one or more event identifiers associated with the one or more video fingerprints may be received from the automatic content recognition backend system via the automatic content recognition application programming interface. The method may comprise communicating the one or more event identifiers to an application server and receiving from the application server one or more interactive events and an event timeline associated with the one or more event identifiers. In some exemplary embodiments of the invention the method may comprise receiving a corresponding time of match from the automatic content recognition backend system when the automatic content recognition backend system determines a match.

In some exemplary embodiments of the invention an opt in request may be received from the application server and in response to receiving the opt in request an overlay window that presents an opt in choice may be displayed to a user to allow the user to determine whether to interact. In some exemplary embodiments of the invention a response to the opt in choice may be received from the user and the response to the opt in choice may be communicated to the application server. The application server may determine whether a customer account exists. In some embodiments of the invention the application server may communicate with a customer database to determine whether a customer account exists. In some exemplary embodiments of the invention a confirmation of a valid customer account may be received from the application server.

In some exemplary embodiments of the invention displaying a registration window that allows a user to enter registration information may be displayed when the application server determines that the customer account does not exist. The registration information may be communicated to the application server. The application server may cause a new customer account to be created in the customer database.

In some exemplary embodiments of the invention the method may comprise generating a break structure related to the video content utilizing the event timeline. One or more of the interactive events may be associated with one or more playback times in the video content. The one or more interactive events may be executed by tracking the video content and referencing the break structure. The method may comprise receiving a user response to the one or more interactive events generating user response data and transmitting the user response data to the automatic content recognition backend system. The method may comprise receiving a user response to the one or more interactive events generating user response data and transmitted the user response data to the application server. In some exemplary embodiments of the invention the application server utilizes a media device application programming interface to generate the one or more interactive events.

In some exemplary embodiments of the invention the method may comprise continually e.g. repeatedly executing the generating one or more video fingerprints step and continually e.g. repeatedly executing the receiving from the application server one or more interactive events step. The method may include updating information associated with the one or more interactive events or receiving one or more new interactive events.

One or more components of the ACR backend may be in communication with an NTP server not shown that may comprise suitable logic circuitry code and or interfaces that may be operable to provide timing information for handling for example synchronization and events for components and entities within the ACR system.

The fingerprint servers may comprise suitable logic circuitry code and or interfaces that may be operable to handle fingerprinting and fingerprint communications to the fingerprint matching systems . Since each vendor or television manufacturer is likely to utilize its own fingerprint technology each of the fingerprint servers may be a dedicated server for each of the fingerprint technologies supported by the system . In some embodiments of the invention a portion of one or more fingerprint servers may be operable to perform video fingerprinting while a portion may be operable to perform audio fingerprinting. Fingerprint technologies from multiple vendors may utilize different computations to perform fingerprinting of video and or audio frames. For example each fingerprint technology may utilize a specific set of algorithms parameters operations and or data processing methods for example. In some examples one or more fingerprint servers may generate fingerprints from media content in a short amount of time for example two seconds or less. Fingerprint servers may fingerprint network content and send the fingerprints to a content ID database to be associated with an event ID and then stored hosted.

The content ID database may comprise suitable logic circuitry code and or interfaces that may be operable store host fingerprints of content for example sent from fingerprint servers and associated event IDs. Content ID database may associate one or more fingerprints with an interactive event identifier. In one example content fingerprints and or associated video content may be provided by an entity that hosts runs the application server.

The content ID database may be operable to manage events provided by an event manager and may assign interactive event IDs to live and or archived network programming. In one example archived video segments and or associated fingerprints may be provided by an entity that hosts runs the application server. The content ID database may be operable to communicate with multiple fingerprint servers that may utilize multiple fingerprint technologies. The content ID database may create and or host a media timeline that comprises interactive event identifiers IDs assigned to the video fingerprints generated by the fingerprint servers .

The fingerprint matching systems may comprise suitable logic circuitry code and or interfaces that may be operable to match fingerprints produced by the fingerprint servers with fingerprints produced by the end user devices . Each of the fingerprint matching systems may correspond to a particular ACR or fingerprint technology. In this regard each of the fingerprint matching systems may be supported by a third party such as a TV manufacturer for example. Additionally one or more of the fingerprint matching systems may be a hosted service for example cloud computing etc. which may be accessible via the Internet.

The fingerprint servers may be operable to send fingerprints interactive event IDs and other information to their corresponding fingerprint vendors fingerprint matching systems through one or more networks e.g. wireline networks optical hybrid fiber coaxial HFC wireless networks etc. and or by utilizing one or more communication protocols. Communication between the fingerprint servers and the fingerprint matching systems may occur through one or more wireless and or wireline communication links. The communication links described above may support one or more communication protocols. Accordingly the fingerprint servers and the fingerprint matching systems may comprise suitable logic circuitry code and or interfaces to enable the use of the appropriate communication protocols.

The fingerprint matching systems may be operable to compare fingerprints produced by the end user devices with fingerprints provided by the fingerprint servers. In some examples the fingerprint matching systems may detect whether a fingerprint match has occurred within a time period for example one second of when the content appears on the media device . In some examples the fingerprint matching systems may detect fingerprint matches with a high accuracy for example at least 99.95 . In some examples the fingerprint matching systems may detect fingerprint matches where the video quality of the samples are less than pristine. When a match occurs a fingerprint matching system may indicate that an interactive event is to take place in an end user device . These interactive events may allow a viewer of an end user device to be presented with information on the screen or display of an end user device such as advertisements prompts to change channels or playback modes notifications of coupons games and the like and may allow a viewer to interact with the information presented.

Communications between the fingerprint matching systems and the end user devices may occur through one or more communication links and or networks e.g. wireline networks optical hybrid fiber coaxial HFC wireless networks etc. for example network and or by utilizing one or more communication protocols. The communication links and or networks described above may support one or more communication protocols. Accordingly the fingerprint matching systems and the end user devices may comprise suitable logic circuitry code and or interfaces to enable the use of the appropriate communication protocols.

The application server may comprise suitable logic circuitry code and or interfaces that may be operable to store or host or contain address information related to the location of one or more applications or interactive events. Applications and or interactive events may be associated with an event ID and for example a specific video fingerprint. In some examples applications and or interactive events associated with an event ID and or fingerprint may be defined by an entity in charge of creating applications. The applications may be stored in the application server and the associated event ID and video fingerprint and or segment may be provided to the ACR backend .

It should be understood that a system for example system may include more than one application server even though some of the figures and descriptions throughout this disclosure may refer to a single application server in order to describe certain aspects of the systems and methods of this disclosure. It should be understood that in some setups an end user device may have an application installed prior to the time that a fingerprint match which is related to that device is detected. In this setup the application server may push an interactive event that displays and or executes on the pre installed application. In other setups and or situations the application itself may be pushed to the end user device and the end user device may be operable to handle and or execute the application and interactive event. Various configurations may exist with respect to the end user devices and the application server such that portions of the code which may be operable to execute an interactive event on an end user device may be pre installed on the end user device. Therefore throughout this disclosure when reference is made to an application or an interactive event being pushed or communicated from an application server it may be understood that the application or one or more portions thereof may be pre installed on the end user device. Alternatively the application server may push the application including the interactive event together.

The application server may be operable to receive from an end user device information related to an interactive event ID. The information may be provided by the end user device in response to a match between a fingerprint that may be taken and or generated by the end user device and a fingerprint that may be taken and or generated by a corresponding fingerprint server . In some embodiments of the present disclosure the application server may receive information related to an interactive event ID directly from the ACR backend instead of or in addition to receiving information from an end user device . Thus in this regard the end user device may prompt the application server for content or the application server may push the content to the end user device. Therefore throughout this disclosure whenever reference is made to the end user device requesting content from an application server i.e. a pull the application server may actually push the content to the end user device and vice versa with respect to references to application servers pushing content i.e. the end user device may instead request content from the application servers .

The application server may be in communication with a customer database . The customer database may collects store host customer account information related to one or more applications media devices and or users. For example the customer database may store technical details about a media device associated with a customer account. The customer database may store personal information about one or more users associated with an account for example a username a password an email address payment information and the like. The customer database may also be operable to receive and or handle responses by viewers users to applications for example interactions with event overlay windows. The application server may be operable to receive from an end user device user response data and communicate such data to the customer database . The application server may be operable to retrieve account information and or user response data from the customer database and may communicate such information to one or more media devices .

The event manager may comprise servers computers devices user interfaces and the like that allow interaction between an administrative user such as a partner or an event creator director etc. and the ACR backend . The event manager may enable interaction with a component that archives and analyzes video segments. The event manager may comprise peripherals and or interfaces whereby an entity that is responsible for creating assigning event content may create and or assign interactive events that synchronize to a live or replayed programming video segments. The event manager may communicate with a content ID database to assign interactive event IDs to fingerprints associated with live or replayed programming and or video segments. The event identifiers may be assigned to the appropriate fingerprints generated by the fingerprint servers . The event manager and or content ID database may synchronization to appropriately assign the event identifiers to the right spot in a video and or audio sequence.

The event manager may be operable to receive one or more inputs from a user e.g. an interactive director and to generate based on those inputs interactive event identifiers that can be communicated to the fingerprint servers where they can be associated with or assigned to the video fingerprints generated by the fingerprint servers. The event manager may be operable to communicate the interactive event identifiers to a television system e.g. legacy system and or to a web system. The interactive event identifiers may be utilized in the television system and or in the web system to trigger interactive events. Moreover the communication of the interactive event identifiers may be based on one or more of an EBIF an HTTP live streaming HLS a satellite network protocol or some other protocol.

The content ID database may communicate event ID and or fingerprint association information to the fingerprint servers . Each of the fingerprint servers may then communicate the event identifiers and the fingerprints to its corresponding one of the fingerprint matching systems . The fingerprint matching systems in turn receive fingerprints from their corresponding end user devices and try to match those fingerprints to the ones received from their corresponding fingerprint servers . When a match occurs the event identifier and or other information may be passed to the appropriate end user device and or to an application server . Based on information determined by the fingerprint matching system the end user device may obtain application data for example interactive information e.g. graphics text applications from the application server .

Once a match occurs in one of the fingerprint matching systems and the end user device and or the application server obtains the appropriate information from its corresponding fingerprint vendor the application server communicate the appropriate content such as an application or interactive event to the end user device that corresponds to the interactive event ID. The end user device may communicate interactive event ID information to the application server in order to request content or content may be pushed by the application server to an end user device without the device requesting it. In some embodiments of the invention in order for an end user device to accept content from an application server the device may have to be logged and or registered with an application application provider web service or the like. Additionally the end user device may need to have an appropriate ACR service running on the device that enables the media device to communicate with the application server and or the ACR backend .

The end user devices may comprise a plurality of devices such as connected TVs connected TV with paired handheld and or mobile devices also referred to as second screen devices such as smartphones PDAs and tablets for example. As shown in various end user devices media devices such as connected smart TVs smart TVs with paired hand held second screen devices and even hand held devices only may be connected via a network to an ACR system for example similar to the system of . In one setup a single smart TV device may be connected to an ACR system. In another setup multiple devices may be connected to an ACR system for example where one device such as a smart TV may be the primary end user device and one or more hand held devices such as tablets PDAs or smart phones may be second screen devices. A second screen device associated with the connected TVs may be a tablet e.g. iPad Samsung Galaxy etc. smartphone e.g. iPhone Android etc. or other like device for example. In this setup the second screen devices may either be in communication with the network directly or they may be in communication with the network via the primary device or both.

It should be understood that in any particular media device s setup not all of the devices need to be ACR enabled devices. In some examples one of the devices may an ACR enabled device and the other may not be ACR capable but may still interact with the ACR enabled device. Therefore throughout this disclosure whenever reference is made to an ACR based device in a setup it should be understood that not all of the devices need to be ACR capable. Devices in a setup may also be referred to as media devices. Furthermore throughout this disclosure whenever reference is made to a single end user device in a setup it should be understood that the setup may comprise multiple end user devices and vice versa with respect to references to multiple end user devices. In another setup hand held devices which may in some situations operate as second screen devices may act as one or more primary end user devices and optionally one or more secondary end user devices. In this setup one or more hand held devices may receive broadcast feed content and may also allow one or more users to interact with interactive events sent over the network . End user devices may also be referred to as media devices where an end user device may be a media device that is utilized by a user to communicate with a system such as an ACR system. The End user devices may also be referred to as viewer devices display devices or ACR based devices for example.

Referring to in a particular end user device setup for example a setup in a viewer s home one or more devices may be connected to a system . Each device in a setup may be connected to an ACR backend via a network or via a separate end user device that is part of the same setup. For example a viewer may have a setup that includes a smart TV that connects to an ACR backend via the network and the viewer may also have a tablet or other second screen device that communicates with the smart TV and allows the viewer to interact with content that is displayed on the smart TV conversely the viewer may not have a Smart TV but have tablet or other second screen device that can communicate directly with the ACR backend and Application Server . In some instances the content displayed on such a second screen device may coincide with the content that is displayed on the main end user device and this coincided content may allow a user or viewer to interact with content displayed on the main end user device in a synchronized manner.

An end user device may comprise suitable logic circuitry code and or interfaces that may be operable to implement an ACR architecture service that runs on the media device. The ACR architecture service may adapt the media device to communicate with an ACR backend and or one or more applications running on the media device. For example the ACR architecture service may adapt the media device to display overlay messages and permit customization of overlay messages for example with respect to the message s location brand graphics sponsorship text and or logos and the like. The ACR architecture service may adapt the media device to display and or modify an overlay message based upon user initiated input and or user responses. The ACR architecture service may enable the media device to display an overlay message based upon ad hoc trigger for example a trigger not associated with video fingerprint matching i.e. poll results . The ACR architecture service may enable the media device to collect user interaction user responses to overlay message for example a political poll question or the like. The ACR architecture service may include a feature whereby a user can override control of automatic overlay events for example to turn off automatic overlay windows.

An end user device may be operable to present one or more applications to a viewer. Applications may be in communication with an ACR API. The applications for example along with the ACR API may adapt the media device to present text including customized formatting including new lines pages fonts and the like window borders wrappings and other graphics. The applications may adapt the media device to present customized overlay windows for example designed by third parties. The applications may adapt the media device to present brand graphics and messages sponsorship text and logos graphs and other feedback images for example user response results from a poll.

An application programming interface API may be required for an application to run properly on a media device. In one example the entity that maintains the application server may utilize an API provided by the media device vendor to create applications that properly execute on the media device. In another example a media device vendor may acquire a system API from the entity that maintains the application server and the API may be implemented into the media device adapting the media device to properly execute applications provided by the application server.

An end user device may include or be in communication with a media unit provided or supported by a television network or service provider such as for example a set top box gateway computer tuner other digital video device etc. The media unit may read and or analyze a network broadcast feed as shown in for example in order to display programming on the end user device . The media unit may comprise a digital video recorder DVR component that is operable to record live programming for later replay or playback by a viewer sometimes referred to as on demand viewing. An ACR system for example system may be operable to analyze video and or audio being played back on an end user device via a DVR the same as it analyzes live programming. In this respect an ACR system may analyze video and or audio being played back via a DVR generate fingerprints of the video and send the fingerprints to a fingerprint matching system for example systems . A media unit and a smart TV or tablet end user device may also be configured and operate such that the smart TV or tablet may communicate commands to the media unit. For example a smart TV with proper authentication for example may be operable to instruct a media unit to change channels perform video playback functions perform guide functions and the like. A media unit may comprise suitable logic circuitry code and or interfaces and may utilize appropriate communication protocols to interact directly with a network for example the network . In this regard a media unit may communicate data via a network or may receive commands via a network.

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 730 352 filed on Dec. 28 2012 discloses additional detail of an exemplary ACR system.

The End user devices for example devices . . . may utilize the same video and or audio fingerprinting technology utilized by the associated fingerprint servers and supported by the associated fingerprint matching system vendors. The fingerprint vendor may be a vendor manufacturer or other third party service provider that may comprise suitable logic circuitry code and or interfaces operable to provide hosted services over the Internet for the viewer devices. These services may comprise video and or audio fingerprint matching as well as the delivery of any interactive event IDs associated with a match. The end user devices may comprise suitable logic circuitry code and or interfaces that may be operable to take and send fingerprints to the fingerprint vendor for matching.

In operation one or more components of an exemplary automatic content recognition system for example the automatic content recognition ACR system and of may communicate with one another to perform one or more of the methods and or techniques described herein. For example one or more media devices may communicate with an ACR backend for example to determine whether fingerprints generated by the media devices match fingerprints stored in the ACR backend . The ACR backend may utilize a fingerprint matching system and for example other components to determine whether a fingerprint match has occurred. The ACR backend may communicate with the media devices to communicate information about a match. The media devices may communicate with an application server using information received from the ACR backend to request application data. The application server may communicate with a customer database to receive user specific information. Additional details regarding the operation of exemplary automatic content recognition systems may be found in flow charts and related descriptions herein.

At step the ACR backend may accept and handle fingerprints for video segments communicated from the media device and or ACR API. The ACR backend may then compare the communicated fingerprints to fingerprints stored within the ACR backend. For example referring to the ACR backend may utilize one or more fingerprint servers and one or more fingerprint matching systems. Referring again to at step the ACR backend may determine whether there is a match between the communicated fingerprints and the fingerprints stored within the ACR backend. If no match occurs the ACR backend may communicate a no match signal to the media device and or ACR API in which case the ACR API may return to step . At step if a match occurs the ACR backend may communicate a match signal to the media device and or ACR API along with other information for example an interactive event ID and a time of match associated with the fingerprint. At step the ACR API may pass along the information associated with the fingerprint including the event ID to the application.

At step the application on the media device may communicate with an application server. The application may communicate information associated with a matched fingerprint including an event ID to the application server. At step the application server may determine whether it is hosting or has access to an application and or interactive event associated with the event ID provided by the application. If no match occurs the application server may communicate a no match signal to the media device and or application. The application may then communicate the no match signal to the ACR API in which case the ACR API may return to step . In this situation where no application match occurred when the ACR API again samples and fingerprints video step if the event ID received from the ACR backend is different than before the new information associated with the recent fingerprint match may be updated at steps so that the application server can attempt to find an application and or interactive event associated with the updated event ID.

At step if a match occurs in the application server the application server may communicate application data associated with the application interactive event to the media device and or application. Application data may comprise a configuration file that instructs the application how to execute the interactive event. The application server may also communicate an event timeline related to fingerprinted content that instructs the application when to generate interactive events at certain offsets in video content. In addition the configuration file may leverage the ACR API to download the next few minutes of fingerprints of the matched content so subsequent matches can be performed local on the device reducing network traffic in a pre recorded content scenario or it may leverage the ACR API to download the fingerprints of additional content such as a sponsorship advertisement so that matches can be performed more quickly when the ad plays on the broadcast telecast. In some embodiments of the invention the application server may communicate an opt in request to the media device requesting that the media device user register and or login before complete application data is communicated to the media device. At step the ACR API may utilize the event timeline to initialize video content. For example the ACR API may determine the length of the relevant video content and create a break structure such that certain interactive events are associated with certain times in the video content. At step the ACR API may then communicate time and or interactive event association information to the application such that the application may initiate interactive events at the appropriate times. The ACR API may continually sample and fingerprint video step so to some extent the flow diagram may be a continuous cycle.

Application programming interfaces API s that allow various types of media devices to interface with a single ACR backend may offer benefits. For example an ACR API may allow an end user device to generate fingerprints that are compatible with the ACR backend. An ACR API may allow an end user device to associate fingerprint match messages signals received from an ACR backend and may allow the end user device to send interactive event IDs to an application server as a result. An ACR API may allow the media device to format content break structures related to an application and or to interactive events for example adding appropriate breaks event triggers into content. An ACR API may allow the media device to associate media times with breaks event triggers in content and communicate those media times to an application. In another example the framework may enable the invocation of overlay windows and may facilitate data communication between the media device and the ACR backend. In another example the framework may enable the communication of content data and other information between a media device and one or more second screen devices.

In operation one or more components of an exemplary automatic content recognition system for example the automatic content recognition ACR systems and of may communicate with one another to perform one or more of the methods and or techniques described herein. For example one or more media devices may communicate with an ACR backend for example to determine whether fingerprints generated by the media devices match fingerprints stored in the ACR backend . The media device may comprise an ACR application programming interface that enables the media device to communicate with the ACR backend . The ACR backend may utilize a fingerprint matching system and for example other components to determine whether a fingerprint match has occurred. The ACR backend may communicate with the media devices to communicate information about a match. The media devices may communicate with an application server using information received from the ACR backend to request application data. The application server may communicate with a customer database to receive user specific information. Additional details regarding the operation of exemplary automatic content recognition systems may be found in flow charts and related descriptions herein.

At step the ACR backend may accept and handle fingerprints for video and or audio segments communicated from the media device and or ACR API. The ACR backend may then compare the communicated fingerprints to fingerprints stored within the ACR backend. For example referring to the ACR backend may utilize one or more fingerprint servers and one or more fingerprint matching systems. Referring again to at step the ACR backend may determine whether there is a match between the communicated fingerprints and the fingerprints stored within the ACR backend. If no match occurs the ACR backend may communicate a no match signal to the media device and or ACR API in which case the ACR API may return to step . At step if a match occurs the ACR backend may communicate a match signal to the media device and or ACR API along with other information for example an interactive event ID and a time of match associated with the fingerprint. At steps the ACR API may determine whether the media associated with the fingerprint is new and whether it is already being tracked by the media device meaning the media device has previously acquired information about the media for example an associated event ID and an event timeline.

At step if the ACR API determines that the media is new the application may communicate with an application server to request application data related to the media. The application may communicate for example an event ID to the application server. At step the application server may receive and handle the request from the application by comparing the received event ID to known event IDs. At step if the application server determines that a hosted application and or interactive event matches the event ID provided by the application it may return related application data to the application. At step the application may receive application data for example a configuration file from the application server and may determine if the configuration file is a valid format that can execute on the media device. At step if the application data is valid the application may determine that the media device should begin tracking the media.

Referring to at step if the application determined that the media device should begin tracking the new media A indicates a carry over from a step of the ACR API may initialize the media content to prepare it for tracking. For example the ACR API may determine the length of the relevant video content and create a break structure such that certain interactive events are associated with certain times in the video content. At step media and or content playing on the media device may be tracked. The media and or content may be tracked after it was initialized from step or it may be tracked without initialization if the ACR API determined that the media was not new and was already being tracked by the media device B indicates a carry over from a step of . At step content may be tracked by continually for example every second or some other time instant updating information related to the content for example the play time and or location in the content. At step the application may accept content updates from the ACR API and may update the application for example the play time and or location in the content such that associated interactive events may be launched.

API s that allow application programmers to interface with various media device vendors may provide benefits. For example an API may allow an end user device to perform real time downloading and invocation of applications from the app server . Additionally API s may establish a single framework or container that can be leveraged for various applications. For example the framework may include functions that facilitate user response data to multiple locations e.g. user response data may be sent to two distinct locations and or servers the address of which may be maintained by the system or network content provider. In another example the framework may enable the invocation of overlay windows and or events and applications and may facilitate data communication between multiple applications and or overlay windows and between applications and an external entity for example a third party service. In another example the framework may enable the communication of content data and other information to and from second screen devices. In another example the framework may enable the invocation of an opt in confirmation that allows viewers to register for example a registration for each application and or each application provider . Registration may allow an application provider to track user interaction and responses for example in a customer database for example the customer database of . In some examples the framework may enable the media device to accept request events from the application server. Request events may cause the media device to initiate events overlay windows for example the ones previously described.

In the example shown in the entity that maintains the application server may create a political poll interactive event and or application. The entity that maintains the application server may specify to the ACR backend certain video and or audio segments and or fingerprints that should correspond to interactive events that are hosted by the application server . The ACR backend may determine when to trigger the poll interactive event and or application based on whether a match is detected between video fingerprints provided by a media device and video segments and or fingerprints specified by the application server. When a match is detected by the ACR backend the ACR backend may communicate to the media device over network signaling to the media device that it should request an interactive event with a specific ID from the application server . When the application server receives a signal and an interactive event ID from an end user device the app server may send application data to one or more end user devices . The app server may send application data to an end user device in response to receiving a signal and an interactive event ID from the device for example.

The application data may comprise but need not be limited to text banners shapes graphics overlays sidebars applications widgets and or video for example. The application data may also comprise computer code applications or other interactive elements that when executed by an end user device may present content to a viewer and allow a viewer to interact with an interactive element. The application data may be synchronized with content that is currently or was recently displayed on the end user device. In one example when application data in sent to an end user device the end user device may display an overlay window that takes up a portion of the full display . In this example the full display may show live programming related to a news show or an ongoing political race for example and the overlay window may display a poll that is synchronized with the live programming. One example poll may ask the viewer of the end user device to share their opinion about an event that just occurred in the live programming. The overlay window may also include reserved sections for example sections that are reserved for advertisements sponsors network messages or other purposes.

As illustrated in an interactive event such as a poll may solicit a viewer response. In one example the poll may solicit user response via a multiple choice question although other types of responses are contemplated such as text responses. In another example when an interactive event and or overlay window is presented and opt in to interact may be presented. If the user chooses to interact one or more additional windows may appear allowing the user to register and or login with the provider of the application and or interactive event. Once a viewer sees the interactive element on the screen of an end user device the user may interact for example by responding to a poll by choosing one of the choices in a multiple choice question. The selection of a particular choice may be made utilizing a remote control and or a second screen device for example.

As one example depicted in it can be seen that the screen of second screen device may display interactive choices that coincide with the choices displayed in overlay window . A viewer may then indicate a response using the second screen device for example by selecting a button labeled Yes. In the example of when the viewer selects Yes on the second screen device the same choice appears as selected in the overlay window . The second screen device may communicate the viewer s response to the end user device by a variety of connections such as a wired connection and or a wireless connection e.g. WIFI Bluetooth infrared and the like . Alternatively it may communicate results over network directly to the application server .

Referring to once a user responds to an interactive event such as a poll user response data may then be transmitted to one or more remote systems for example an ACR backend and or an application server . The ACR backend which may host or be in communication with a user response database may collect user responses to event overlays and or track user interaction. The application server which may host or be in communication with a customer database may collect user responses to event overlays and or track user interaction. The user response data may comprise but need not be limited to answers to poll questions answers to trivia questions text responses and the like. Therefore user response data may comprise pictures video and or sounds exhibited by a viewer of an end user device. In some instances the user response data may comprise processed information related to the viewer behavior such as behavioral recognition data.

An end user device may transmit response data via a network to an ACR backend . An end user device may transmit response data via a network to an application server . In some examples network and may be the same network for example the Internet. In one example the application server may be implemented by the same system that implements the ACR backend . In some embodiments of the invention the end user device may be operable to transmit response data to other servers and or remote systems devices.

The entity that maintains the application server may maintain a customer database another example shown in item . The customer database may be hosted by the same server as the application server or the application server may be in communication with the customer database. The customer database may associate the user media device to user customer account information for example payment details personal information and the like. The customer database may track information about the user s media device for example a unique media device identifier. If a viewer elects to interact with an application and or interactive event the application and or interactive may be linked to the user s account in the customer database.

In operation one or more components of an exemplary automatic content recognition system for example the automatic content recognition ACR systems and of and may communicate with one another to perform one or more of the methods and or techniques described herein. For example one or more media devices may communicate with an ACR backend for example to determine whether fingerprints generated by the media devices match fingerprints stored in the ACR backend . The ACR backend may utilize a fingerprint matching system and for example other components to determine whether a fingerprint match has occurred. The ACR backend may communicate with the media devices to communicate information about a match. The media devices may communicate with an application server using information received from the ACR backend to request application data. The application server may communicate with a customer database to receive user specific information. The application server may determine whether it hosts application data that matches the request sent by the media device and may communicate application data to the media device if a match occurs. The application server may comprise a media device application programming interface that enables the application server to prepare application data and communicate it to the media device. Additional details regarding the operation of exemplary automatic content recognition systems may be found in flow charts and related descriptions herein.

Referring to at step when a media device requests an application from the application server the application server may first send an opt in request to the media device. At step when the media device receives the opt in request it may display an overlay window that includes an option to opt in and or engage with the application. At step a viewer may choose to opt in. If the viewer chooses not to opt in the overlay window may disappear. If the viewer chooses to opt in the application may require that a valid customer account to be established in order for the application to execute properly. The viewer s response to the opt in window may be received handled by the media device and communicated to the application server. At step the application server may determine whether a valid customer account exists by querying a customer database. In some examples the query may comprise details about the requesting media device for example a unique hardware identifier the identifying being associated to a customer s account if registered. In some examples the query may comprise details about the viewer for example a username email address password and or the like.

At step if the application server determined that a valid customer account exists account information in the customer database may be accessed and or modified. For example a customer s credit card may be charged and or credited based on the nature of the application. For example a customer credit card may be credited and or a discount may be provided for a product advertised in a commercial associated with the application. At step if the application server determined that a valid customer account does not exist a message may be communicated to the media device and the media device may be instructed to launch a registration window and or application. At step the media device and or registration application may receive and or handle registration information from the viewer. In some examples the registration information may comprise details about the media device. In some examples registration information includes details about the viewer for example personal information a username password email address and the like. At step the registration information is communicated to the application server and the application server causes a new account to be created in the customer database. At step a confirmation message may be communicated to the media device. The confirmation message may display as a result of a successful account query step or as a result of a successful account registration. The confirmation message may indicate to the user that the application is ready to launch. At step the application launches and or executes on the media device. At this step if the application requires more information the application server may communicate such information to the media device.

Referring to there is shown a data processing system that may correspond to one or more components of an exemplary automatic content recognition system. The data processing system may comprise a processor module a memory module a network module and an input output I O interface module .

The processor module may comprise suitable logic circuitry code and or interfaces that may be operable to perform the operations functions processes techniques and the like for example one or more of the operations functions processes and techniques described herein. In this regard the processor module may be operable to enable one or more components of a dial testing and audience response system. The processor module may comprise at least one processing device . The processing device may be a central processing unit CPU a digital signal processor DSP and or other type of integrated circuit that may be utilized to perform data processing operations.

The memory module may comprise suitable logic circuitry code and or interfaces that may be operable to store information utilized to enable an example dial testing and audience response system. The network module may comprise suitable logic circuitry code and or interfaces that may be operable to allow the data processing system to communicate with one or more other data processing systems for example other data processing systems within the same dial testing and audience response system or other data processing systems external to the same dial testing and audience response system . The network module may be operable to support one or more communication protocols such as wireline protocols and or wireless protocols. The I O interface module may comprise suitable logic circuitry code and or interfaces that may be operable to interact with one of more devices or other sources of interactive information such as interfaces or peripherals that allow interaction by a partner or a device that allows a computer code to be loaded into the memory module of the data processing system.

In various embodiments of the invention a method may be executed in a media device that is operable to play video content. The media device may comprise an automatic content recognition application programming interface . The method may comprise generating via the automatic content recognition application programming interface one or more video fingerprints that correspond to video content that displays on the media device. The method may comprise communicating via the automatic content recognition application programming interface the one or more video fingerprints to an automatic content recognition backend system . The automatic content recognition backend system may compare the one or more video fingerprints with one or more stored video fingerprints and determines whether a match occurs. The method may comprise receiving from the automatic content recognition backend system via the automatic content recognition application programming interface one or more event identifiers associated with the one or more video fingerprints if the match occurs. The method may comprise communicating the one or more event identifiers to an application server and receiving from the application server one or more interactive events and an event timeline associated with the one or more event identifiers. In some exemplary embodiments of the invention the method may comprise receiving a corresponding time of match from the automatic content recognition backend system when the automatic content recognition backend system determines a match.

In some exemplary embodiments of the invention the method may comprise receiving an opt in request from the application server and in response to receiving the op in request displaying an overlay window that presents an opt in choice to a user and allows the user to determine whether to interact. In some exemplary embodiments of the invention the method may comprise receiving a response to the opt in choice from the user and communicating the response to the opt in choice to the application server. The application server may determine whether a customer account exists. In some embodiments of the invention the application server may communicate with a customer database to determine whether a customer account exists. In some exemplary embodiments of the invention the method may comprise receiving confirmation of a valid customer account from the application server.

In some exemplary embodiments of the invention the method may comprise displaying a registration window that allows a user to enter registration information when the application server determined that the customer account did not exist. The method may comprise communicating the registration information to the application server . The application server may cause a new customer account to be created in the customer database .

In some exemplary embodiments of the invention the method may comprise generating a break structure related to the video content utilizing the event timeline. One or more of the interactive events may be associated with one or more playback times in the video content. The method may comprise executing the one or more interactive events by tracking the video content and referencing the break structure. The method may comprise receiving a user response to the one or more interactive events generating user response data and transmitting the user response data to the automatic content recognition backend system . The method may comprise receiving a user response to the one or more interactive events generating user response data and transmitted the user response data to the application server . In some exemplary embodiments of the invention the application server utilizes a media device application programming interface to generate the one or more interactive events.

In some exemplary embodiments of the invention the method may comprise continually executing the generating one or more video fingerprints step and continually executing the receiving from the application server one or more interactive events step. The method may include updating information associated with the one or more interactive events or receiving one or more new interactive events.

Another embodiment of the present disclosure may provide a non transitory machine and or computer readable storage and or media having stored thereon a machine code and or a computer program having at least one code section executable by a machine computer and or data processing system thereby causing the machine computer and or data processing system to perform the steps as described herein for implementing various operational protocols for an automatic content recognition system.

Accordingly the present disclosure may be realized in hardware software or a combination of hardware and software. The present disclosure may be realized in a centralized fashion in at least one machine computer and or data processing system or in a distributed fashion where different elements are spread across several interconnected machines computers and or data processing systems. Any kind of machine computer and or data processing system or other apparatus adapted for carrying out the methods described herein is suited. A typical combination of hardware and software may be a general purpose computer system with a computer program that when being loaded and executed controls the computer system such that it carries out the methods and techniques described herein.

The present invention may also be embedded in a computer program product which comprises all the features enabling the implementation of the methods described herein and which when loaded in a computer system is able to carry out these methods. Computer program in the present context means any expression in any language code or notation of a set of instructions intended to cause a system having an information processing capability to perform a particular function either directly or after either or both of the following a conversion to another language code or notation b reproduction in a different material form.

While the present invention has been described with reference to certain embodiments it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes may be made and equivalents may be substituted without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. In addition many modifications may be made to adapt a particular situation or material to the teachings of the present invention without departing from its scope. Therefore it is intended that the present invention not be limited to the particular embodiment disclosed but that the present invention will include all embodiments falling within the scope of the appended claims.

