---

title: Social device security in a social network
abstract: A social network (SNET) is divided into one or more circles employing separate security secrets, e.g. keys, for communication between members. A device can be a member of more than one circle, and store different keys for each of those circles in separate, restricted portions of memory. When a member leaves a circle, new keys can be generated and distributed to the remaining members. Before and after joining a circle, a level of trust associated with the device or human member can be determined based on third party trust verification and a trust history. A requirement for multiple current circle members to vouch for the prospective member can be imposed as a condition of membership. Each circle can be assigned different trust and access levels, and authorization to receive information can be checked before transmitting information between circles.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09100453&OS=09100453&RS=09100453
owner: Broadcom Corporation
number: 09100453
owner_city: Irvine
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120214
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 545 147 filed Oct. 8 2011 and entitled Social Network Device Memberships and Resource Allocation which is incorporated herein in its entirety by reference for all purposes.

This invention relates generally to membership of devices in social networks and more particularly to security of devices in a social network.

The popularity and growth of social network sites and services has increased dramatically over the last few years. Existing social network sites include FACEBOOK GOOGLE TWITTER MYSPACE YOUTUBE LINKEDIN FLICKER JAIKU MYUBO BEBO and the like. Such social networking sites are typically organized around user profiles and or collections of content accessible by members of the network. Membership in such social networks is comprised of individuals or groupings of individuals who are generally represented by profile pages and permitted to interact as determined by the social networking service.

In many popular social networks especially profile focused social networks activity centers on web pages or social spaces that enable members to communicate and share activities interests opinions status updates audio video content etc. across networks of contacts. Social networking services might also allow members to track certain activities of other members of the social network collaborate locate and connect with former acquaintances and colleagues and establish new connections with other members.

Individual members typically connect to social networking services through existing web based platforms via a computing device and or mobile smartphone. Members often share a common bond social status or geographic or cultural connection with their respective contacts. Smartphone and games based mobile social networking services are examples of rapidly developing areas.

As the use of social networks continues to proliferate the limitations of current security measures used in the context of social networks become more of a concern. In many cases individuals belonging to social networks expect sometimes mistakenly believe that reasonably strong security measures have been implemented to prevent unauthorized access to the social network and that social network members are all trustworthy. As new threats to security of social networks continue to emerge it becomes apparent that current social network security measures are less than perfect.

In various embodiments described herein a social network SNET includes multiple different types of members including but not limited to devices humans groups businesses software applications services and other social networks. The SNET is divided into one or more circles sometimes referred to herein as rings each of which can have its own level of security and trust. The security of each level can be implemented by using separate security secrets for example public or private keys for communication between SNET members.

In addition to implementing rings of security or trust adaptive trust levels can be implemented on an individual member or ring basis to permit SNET members to evaluate the likelihood that other SNET members have been authenticated and to help assess the likelihood that another SNET member will provide an advertised service at a level of quality advertised and to generally determine whether or not a particular SNET member can be trusted or relied upon. Generally although not always members having similar levels of trust with respect to authentication can be included in the same circle or ring thereby allowing other members of the same circle or ring to rely on circle membership as a proxy for an authentication trust level. In some such embodiments members of a particular circle may have common or similar levels of trust with regards to authentication and different levels of trust with respect to advertised services information accuracy or the like.

SNET members including devices and services can belong to more than one circle and may be a member of multiple SNETs. To facilitate secure communications within and between the different circles and SNETs to which a single device belongs the device can store different keys for each of the circles in separate restricted portions of memory.

Before being allowed to become a member of a circle the potential member can be subjected to third party trust verification. A requirement for multiple current circle members to vouch for the prospective member can also be imposed as a condition of membership. When a member leaves a circle new keys can be generated and distributed to the remaining members along with other information related to circle security such as blacklists whitelists algorithm selection information content restrictions and the like.

When transmitting content between circles circle level authorization and individual level authorization can be checked to determine if members of the circle to which the content being sent are authorized to receive the content. A check can also be made to determine if the member attempting to transmit the content is authorized to do so. The SNET authorization check can be used to supplement or possibly replace other digital rights management DRM or content protection processes. Depending on whether or not the transfer of content is authorized the content transmitted between circles can be tagged altered transcoded or otherwise protected.

Additionally each circle member can have one or more trust levels associated with it and one or more of those trust levels can be an adaptive trust level that varies over time based on various factors such as previous interactions with other SNET members interactions with trusted third party sources the passage of time since a previous authentication procedure or the like.

As used herein the terms social network and SNET comprise a grouping or social structure of devices and or individuals as well as connections links and interdependencies between such devices and or individuals. Members or actors including devices within or affiliated with an SNET may be referred to herein as nodes social devices SNET members SNET devices user devices and or modules . In addition the terms SNET circle SNET group and SNET sub circle generally denote an SNET that comprises SNET devices and as contextually appropriate human SNET members and personal area networks PAN . As used herein the term digital rights management DRM is intended to be interpreted to encompass various content protection schemes standards protocols and processes by which various types of data are protected from unauthorized copying and access.

The term trust level is used to refer to both individual levels of trust and aggregate or overall levels of trust. For example an SNET member may have a first level of trust indicating a likelihood that the SNET member is in fact who he purports to be. A likelihood that that the SNET member will maintain a promised performance or quality level can be indicated by a second level of trust associated with SNET member a third level of trust can be used to indicate that the SNET member can provide advertised or promised services and a fourth level of trust indicating an overall level of trustworthiness. Other types or categories of trust levels can also be implemented according to the teachings set forth herein.

The concept of trust can be illustrated by a participant in a gaming SNET circle where the participant claims that he is rated as a CLASS 1 player in a warfare game has played a threshold number of rounds of a role playing game or has participated in crafting particular items in other games. If the participant s claims are true he may be granted access to particular gaming scenarios game enclaves levels chat groups or the like. But the special access provides an incentive for the participant to provide false information. As can be seen by this example even if the participant has been authenticated one form of trust he may not be providing truthful information another form of trust .

Referring now to a social network circle group hereinafter SNET circle comprising social devices is shown. Beyond traditional social networking features and services a SNET circle and associated social devices according to various embodiments of the invention include numerous novel features and attributes as described more fully below with general reference to the illustrations.

Briefly membership in the SNET circle may comprise docked social devices an embodiment of which is described in conjunction with and human SNET circle members as well as proxies thereof. Further SNET circle nodes may include device services and software e.g. applications of various types participating as members. By way of example SNET circle members might include artificial intelligence agents social robots SNET security device s appliances vehicles and service providers common or authorized members functionality of other SNET circles etc. Further access to specific content and resources of a SNET circle may be shared with members of additional SNET s including remote or web based applications. Such access can be conditioned on acceptable profiling and association data. Similarly social devices or individuals may be granted temporary or ad hoc memberships with or without restricted access and in some cases based on one or more levels of trust.

In the illustrated embodiment formation maintenance and operation of SNET circle is performed by standalone or distributed SNET processing circuitry and software . It is noted that the SNET processing circuitry may comprise hardware software applications or various combinations thereof and be configurable to support various functionalities disclosed herein. Further the SNET processing circuitry may be included in a standalone server server farm cloud based resources and or the various types of devices described below and incorporate authentication and security functionality including various embodiments that incorporate device security and trust functionality as illustrated and described in the following figures and accompanying description. In addition specialized middleware may also be utilized by SNETs according to the invention including standardized middleware with an associated certification process. Interactions and interdependencies within the SNET circle may involve one or more of a social device association control module SNET circle member profiling module and an adaptive resource allocation and arbitration module as described more fully below.

Distribution of internal and external SNET content media can be accomplished in a variety of ways in accordance with various embodiments of the invention. For example media distribution may involve an adaptive or parallel network routing infrastructure involving a wide variety of communication protocols and wired and or wireless communications channels. SNET content media may comprise for example various user driven advertising channels pictures videos links online text etc. Access to such content as well as communications with and remote access to social devices of the SNET circle may occur over an Internet backbone cellular communication system WAN LAN etc.

In the illustrated embodiment social system members or nodes include one or more local or remote servers and server clusters that provide a support infrastructure for social group functionality and member operations routing data storage services etc. . Communications within the social group and with non members may occur via dedicated or multi function communication path devices.

Social system members further include devices configured to operate as nodes within the social group . Social functionality in such devices and other social system members can be implemented through various means. For example a device may have integral hardware firmware software to support social group access and member operations. Alternatively a general purpose device may include social code that enables participation in the social group . In a further embodiment a device designed to include social functionality may participate in the social group through a combination of non social code and a social shim layer or driver wrapper. In yet another embodiment a member device having a social design may utilize additional social code including code specific to a social group .

Participation in the social group is supported through functionality that includes automated and member triggered membership invitations and processing membership management . More particularly membership management may function to invite prospective members to participate in the social group through automatic automated and member triggered processes. For example membership management might be configured by a human user to establish a social group by automatically inviting accepting social system members having certain characteristics such as devices owned or controlled by the user or acquaintances of the user .

Processing of accepted invitations and unsolicited requests to join the social group may be conditioned upon input or authorization from an existing social system member s or human user s e.g. through a user interface and may be further conditioned on one or more trust variables or thresholds in addition to authorization. Similarly membership management may be configured to generate automated suggestions regarding which prospective members receive an invitation.

Access to and visibility of resources of a social group including services and data may be managed through general and member class specific access configurations and like requests to join a social group or circle can be conditioned upon one or more trust variables or thresholds. For example if membership in the social group includes family members and associated devices a uniform access configuration or separate device and human configurations could be applied across the class in an automatic or automated manner.

Membership classes associated with particular trust levels can be implemented with membership limited to members meeting specified trust criteria such as a trust threshold or clearance through a specified trusted third party source. In some embodiments membership in a particular circle or group may be dependent on the prospective member allowing trust monitoring software e.g. software to detect tampering with data stored in protected memory areas to be downloaded or run periodically on a member device.

Access control and constraints can also be imposed on a per member basis. For example access to certain resources or to the social circle itself can depend on one or more levels of trust associated with a particular member. Thus a unified level of authorization trust can be applied across the class while individual members can still be assigned varying levels of trust within the class. In yet other embodiments a particular class of membership indicates at least a threshold level of trust and access authorization so that each class member can be assumed by other social devices to have an overall level of trust that falls within a predetermined range of trust levels.

In some embodiments access restrictions and restraints can also be applied on a function by function basis or on a resource by resource basis or otherwise. Thus for example certain services may be provided only to requesters having a threshold level of trust or belonging to circles having threshold levels of trust. In other instances services may be provided only to devices connected via a chain having a threshold level of trust. Thus for example even a very trusted device connected to the social network through a non trustworthy device may not be allowed access to certain content from another device based on the lack of trustworthiness of one of the devices in the chain which information must be delivered. In other instances a threshold can be set for both a chain trust rating and individual trust ring.

Furthermore because levels of trust can change over time access constraints can be altered over time to conform to changes in a trust level associated with an individual member a class device type or otherwise. Adaptive trust levels are discussed in more detail with reference to later figures.

The social group may offer a wide variety of member services including both internal and external services accessible by social system members . By way of example the social group may offer email or other communication services between full members and or authorized guest members and visitors. As with other resources of the social group access control and constraints on member services may be applied to individual members or classes of members.

In cases where SNET services are provided by individual SNET members a trust level can be assigned to the SNET member providing the services. The trust level can be used to inform decisions made by other SNET members regarding whether or not to attempt to obtain services from a particular source. For example if a storage device has a trust rating or level that indicates that the storage device holds pictures accessible to SNET members and can be trusted to provide those pictures at an advertised quality level about 50 of the time other SNET devices can use this trust information choose whether or not to use that device for storage.

The SNET infrastructure of the illustrated embodiment includes a number of functions and resources to support formation and maintenance of a SNET having social device members. In particular member report management and processing receives information from SNET group member reporting functions in associated social devices . Such information may include for example status data sent from or on behalf of social device s . Status data can include information regarding the location address and activities of a social device or device user for an authorization level access permissions and the like. In addition social device s can provide device information indicating for example device functions and social capabilities device model number s device configurations software versions attached peripherals and downstream social devices device resources and usage etc. Device information relating to available resources and current resource usage may be utilized by the SNET infrastructure for purposes of SNET resource management including dynamic resource allocation and arbitration.

In various embodiments the social device may have an obligation to gather store and report device status information and capability information at different times. For example reporting may be required upon affiliation or docking with a SNET on a periodic basis and or during operational engagements with other intra and inter SNET resources and devices including upstream and downstream devices . This information gathering and reporting can include trust and authorization levels of both the SNET device itself parent device as well as trust and authorization levels of devices used by the parent device to provide advertised services child devices . In some cases each device in a chain of parent child social devices can be required to maintain or report trust or authorization status to the social device immediately upstream from the device in question.

In some embodiments trust levels affect the obligation of social device to gather store and report device status information and capability information . For example if social device has a trust level that falls below a desired threshold the reporting requirements for social device may be increased in frequency or thoroughness over the reporting requirements for other more trusted devices.

Referring again to the SNET infrastructure additional functionality and resources include without limitation SNET member information capture and storage management an SNET application programming interface API that allows SNET associated software components to communicate with each other security and access control management for maintaining the integrity of the SNET and affiliated data resources and Web server services . The social network infrastructure further comprises other group application services corresponding to the foregoing as well as additional services such as for example firewall or virtual private network services. In one exemplary embodiment the SNET infrastructure might determine e.g. by means of device information the category and nature of a social device wishing to participate in a SNET. This determination can include among other things either or both of an authorization or trust level associated with the social device . As necessary functionality in the SNET infrastructure could then direct or trigger installation of appropriate application software and underlying drivers in the social device . For example to increase a level of trust associated with a particular social device software that monitors data or program alterations or unauthorized access to portions of memory. Such operations might be performed with minimal involvement from inherent functions of the social device .

In the illustrated embodiment the social device comprises a number of additional functions and resources to support participation in a social network. More particularly SNET SNET and or member control functions may include slave functions master functions and various combinations thereof. Slave functions include for example device re configuration directed resource allocation managed resource arbitration bridging operations etc. Master functions enable the social device to establish manage and terminate various interactions between nodes or groups of nodes in a social network including interactions involving the social device .

The social device further includes a social API and browser based interaction capabilities to support for example relevant social applications and services which might comprise slave and master functions and . Security and access control layers permit the social device to interface with or establish secure SNET groups circles and control access to internal and external SNET resources.

It is noted that numerous of the functional building blocks of the embodiment of the invention illustrated by may be incorporated in whole or part in one or more application specific or general purpose integrated circuit devices. For example an integrated circuit device may provide member reporting functionality including communication of device status and device characteristics device control capabilities master slave functions security and access control modules etc. Such an integrated circuit device may also include onboard processing capabilities and or interface with a processor device. Alternatively several of the functions described above may be incorporated in whole or part into an operating system and or software loaded above an operating system kernel.

Referring next to security among overlapping SNET circles having various trust levels will be discussed according to embodiments of the present disclosure. illustrates five different SNET circles and . SNET circle includes a single device member smartphone . SNET circle includes human members social device member and circle member . Circle member which may also be referred to as a sub circle of SNET circle includes two device members printer and laptop . Circle includes human members and social devices and .

Social device is a member of both SNET and SNET . SNET circle includes human member and social devices and which belong to human member . Social device is a member of both SNET circle and SNET circle . Unless otherwise specified the term members as used with reference to this and other figures can refer to individuals devices or the like that have been granted temporary or permanent access to content within a particular circle have been authorized to communicate using relaxed security protocols within the circles of which they are a member are temporarily docked to a circle or the like.

Shaded areas and represent overlapping areas between respective SNET circles including shared devices. These areas also represent demilitarized zones that allowed devices within them to operate using more relaxed security protocols based on an assumption that any device within the demilitarized zone is a trusted device. In the context of the present example and in various other implementations the term trusted device refers to a device member of an SNET that has been granted an appropriate level of authorization. In some embodiments the term trusted device also refers to a device that has met requirements for at least one trust threshold beyond authentication of identity. For example if the identify of a device has been verified as discussed herein the device can be said to authenticated. Thus an authenticated device can be trusted to be the device it claims to be. Another level of trust can also be used to indicate the likelihood that communications received from the device can be trusted to be sent by the device itself that the device provides the services it advertises that advertised services are provided at an acceptable quality that the device is secure from unauthorized access or the like. Devices within a demilitarized zone or within any particular circle can be trusted with respect to authorization access quality of service truthfulness security and various other aspects consistent with a particular implementation.

Generally demilitarized zones can be implemented behind firewalls that restrict access from outside of the demilitarized zone but often essentially ignore communications that do not pass over boundaries of the demilitarized zone. In some instances all communications within a social network are considered to take place within the demilitarized zone and a firewall is implemented at the intersection of any two social networks particularly social networks having different trust levels. An SNET circle including a firewall device can be used as a proxy and all communications directed towards other SNET circles can be directed through the SNET circle that has the firewall device member. Additionally firewalls used in conjunction with the techniques disclosed herein can be set up as a default with a circle creation and or spawn in an ad hoc manner.

In addition to using firewalls for information filtering L2 protocols can be used for creating secure pipes between different SNET circles. Certain implementations employ an IPSec VPN which operates as a DMZ and allows placing a proxy firewall to manage communications flow into the social VPN. Furthermore one or more social devices for example social servers SNET device members or the like can serve to bridge communications and verify trust and security between different SNET circles.

Various implementations can also use one SNET circle whether or not the SNET circle includes a firewall device as a proxy for communicating with other SNET circles. For example SNET can serve as a proxy for communications between SNET circle and SNET circle . Social device which is a member of both SNET circle and SNET circle is not a member of SNET circle but can communicate with members of SNET circle via SNET circle .

In the illustrated embodiment SNET circles and have indeterminate trust levels while SNET circle has Trust Level land SNET circle has a Trust Level 2. SNET by virtue of its being a member of SNET can inherit Trust Level 1. Social device in so far as communications with SNET are concerned has Trust Level 1. However human member social device and social device do not likewise inherit Trust Level 1 simply because one member namely social device has that trust level. In fact social device can inherit trust level by virtue of its membership in the SNET circle but social device and human member of SNET are not authorized to communicate or have access to resources in either SNET circle or SNET circle .

Various other trust level nomenclatures can be used and can be implemented on both a per device basis. For example social device can be assigned trust levels of 1 30 90 and 80 where 1 30 90 indicates that social device is a member of a circle with a trust level of 1 SNET circle can only be trusted to provide members of SNET circle with promised services 30 of the time but when services are provided they are acceptable approximately 90 of the time and where 80 indicates that social device is a member of a circle with an indeterminate trust level SNET but can be trusted to provide members of SNET with advertised services at an advertised quality of service at least 80 of the time.

Referring next to use of different circle secrets keys or other circle specific security is illustrated according to various embodiments of the present disclosure. illustrates the progression of security from least protected outer ring or circle of a social network to a most protected inner ring or circle . In at least some embodiments the circle represents a virtual security circle that includes only a social device itself. Circle can be implemented in software or hardware including being implemented at the chip level and in general each social device that is connected docked or a member of any particular circle can implement its own inner security circle. Sometimes multiple circles can be implemented in a single device using software for one circle and hardware for another.

The next most protected ring after inner circle which is protected by a root secret is SNET circle. which is protected by an SNET key . The next most protected ring is SNET circle which is protected by SNET key . The outermost ring SNET circle employs simple password protection .

In effect members docked devices or others can gain access to the resources of SNET circle through use of a shared password. Use of shared passwords can provide adequate security in many instances particularly if password complexity requirements are imposed. However in general simple password protection does not provide the same level of security as various shared key or public key encryption techniques. Thus in at least some embodiments SNET circle is considered to be less secure then SNET circles at which are protected using security keys.

As illustrated by social device is a member of some but not all of the SNET circles and . For example social device has access to SNET key thereby allowing social device to communicate with members of social circle because each of the members of social circle also have access to SNET key . Likewise social device has access to SNET key which allows communication with members of SNET circle again because each of the members of SNET circle has access to SNET key . In some embodiments a decryption encryption node not illustrated operates within a circle. Alternatively one or more devices can act as a dedicated decryption engine for a circle.

Social device has a root key that it can use to establish its own SNET circle having itself as its only member. Other members can be invited into the SNET circle or request admission into the SNET circle in which case root key can be used to generate other SNET keys not illustrated which can be distributed to the requesting potential member allowing communication at a level determined by social device . Likewise inner circle may include a single device such as a social device a server router or other network node having a root secret that can be used to generate SNET keys also referred to herein as circle keys. In some embodiments multiple devices may each have the same root secret key thereby allowing each of those devices to be a member of inter circle . The root secret key can be provided by manufacturer obtained over a secure link generated based on a common algorithm and using a distributed seed value or otherwise. Various embodiments employ a one time programmable OTP memory to store root key . Note that in some embodiments multiple levels of keys can be used for communication between members of a single SNET circle. For example two devices may be communicating using a circle key and an additional key used specifically for communication between two or more specific devices.

In various embodiments an SNET security configuration including SNET Keys and other information can be loaded from one social device to another from an SNET host to member devices or the like. In cases where members are temporarily docked or where a permanent member is removed the security configuration for an SNET circle can be reloaded into remaining devices to prevent access by the removed member. In some implementations a social network hosting site is prevented from having access to information and content transferred within an SNET circle because the hosting site does not store or have access to circle keys. Furthermore various embodiments can be implemented to prevent the host SNET from gaining access to raw data or media content. In some of those cases the host SNET either acts to mediate an exchange or receives encrypted items without the ability to decrypt those items.

Referring next a method of generating SNET key or circle key is illustrated and discussed according to various embodiments of the present disclosure. Note that although this particular method and technique for generating a circle key is illustrated and discussed in particular other methods of generating it keys or other secret used in implementing security for social network circles can be used as appropriate. To generate a circle key to be distributed to devices approved for membership in a particular circle a root key such as my private key can be encoded using my public key at encoder .

As is known by skilled artisans public private key encryption techniques work on the assumption that any information encoded by a public key can only be decoded by a corresponding private key. Importantly the public key can be used only to encode the message being sent and once encoded the public key cannot be used to decode the very message it was used to encode. Thus if a device encodes its private key using its public key the public key cannot be used to recover the private key. Thus because the circle key is an encoded version of the private key which cannot be decoded except using the private key itself the circle key can be distributed without fear of having the private key discovered.

In some instances the public key used to encode the private key is not the public key belonging to that private key. For instance a device may have two private keys. A public key associated with a first private key can be used to encode the second private key. In yet other embodiments secrets other than public or private keys can be encoded with the public key to generate the circle key .

Once the circle key has been generated it can be distributed to members of the circle and used as a shared key to encrypt communications between circle members. This technique can be used in conjunction with separately encoded channels between particular devices to provide even further security.

Referring next to a social network circle including devices connected via a communication network is illustrated and discussed according to various embodiments of the present disclosure. Social network includes a social network member that has access to A V content either locally or through other social devices such as social devices and . Also included in social networks are DRM module social devices and and transcoder for use in transcoding content being transmitted outside of social networks in accordance with various content protection parameters established by DRM module in accordance with access policies associated with membership in social network circle in accordance with limitations associated with particular content or some combination thereof.

When a request for content is received from outside of SNET circle a determination can be made regarding whether or not the content is to be delivered. Thus if social device which is a member of SNET has access to the requested content social device can send the requested content to DRM module for appropriate encoding in accordance with various digital rights management standards or otherwise. If DRM module determines that the content is not to be transmitted outside of SNET circle DRM module can instead provide the content to transcoder which can provide a lower quality version of the content in accordance with content correction parameters associated with SNET circle . Some embodiments provide for multicasting of content between or within SNET circles.

In some cases content may not be protected by a DRM scheme but a member of SNET circle may desire to limit distribution of content outside of SNET circle . Thus for example SNET member may access locally stored video content or audio video content from either social device or social device . The audio video content can be delivered to transcoder which transcode the content as necessary or in accordance with the security settings or other parameters of SNET circle .

Some of the SNET security parameters include but are not limited to limiting the ability to consume use or access particular content or types of content once or N times date range limitations and allowing access only so long as a device remains a circle member. The security features can be implements at a content level device level feature or feature level. Other security controls may include verification of a social device email telephone number etc.

When content is authorized for transfer outside of SNET circle the content can be tagged prior to being transmitted. For example the tag could indicate a number of copies allowed to be made of the content or a number of times the content can be viewed or accessed. The tag could include an identifier indicating the source of origin of the content including the circle or specific device that transmitted the content. In some cases an SNET circle can help enforce content protection schemes by preventing retransmission of the content by verifying with the original SNET circle whether retransmission is allowed to a third SNET circle.

Further security for protected content can be achieved in some implementations provide for the use of selectable levels of DRM protection upon uploading or otherwise making available content to an SNET circle and by allowing the person uploading the content to select the type of transcoding to be performed by transcoder . For instance a high quality original work can be transcoded to a lower quality format and can be configured to expire after a particular period of time. The uploaded file can then be posted for sharing. The protected file also can be linked to or otherwise identify a high quality source file e.g. for purchase on a commercial site. That way an artist can advertise through sharing and sell through a different outlet such as iTunes.

Referring next security techniques associated with approving circle memberships are illustrated and discussed according to various embodiments of the present disclosure. Many of these same techniques can be employed in establishing and maintaining one or more trust levels associated with various social devices. SNET circle includes social device member human members social device member human member and a social network circle controller . Social network circle controller can be implemented in a centralized server hosting the social network of which social network circle is a part in one of the member devices of social network in a cloud hosting environment using decentralized networking methods or various combinations of these. An example of a social network circle controller and associated infrastructure has been previously discussed generally in conjunction with of the present disclosure.

The embodiment illustrated in shows perspective circle member sending a request to social network circle controller to join SNET circle although the principles discussed here apply equally to situations in which social network circle control initiates the membership process. In response the request to join SNET circle social network circle control can take various actions depending on the protocol established for membership verification in SNET circle . For example in response to receiving a request to join the circle social network circle controller can request verification from a third party source such as a certification trust authority. In response to receiving the verification Social Network Circle controller can respond to perspective circle member with a message indicating permission to join SNET circle has been granted. This communication may include for example a circle key and other information associated with SNET circle such as a list of current members in various protocols parameters preferences restrictions and the like.

In some embodiments in response to receiving a request to join SNET circle social network circle controller can send a verification or authorization request to one or more current members of SNET circle . So for example when perspective circle member requests to join SNET circle SNET circle controller can send requests to human members and to social device asking that those members vouch for or otherwise give permission for perspective circle member to join SNET circle .

In some cases the response from either social device or human members can include a simple yes no while other embodiments employ responses including additional information. In some instances the response can include a challenge request such as a question to which the answer would presumably be known only by the perspective circle member or some other verification question. In other implementations social network circle controller can seek verification from third party verification source in addition to asking one or more members of SNET circle to vouch for a perspective member before providing the perspective member with the circle key or other circle secret that can be used to facilitate or enable communications with other members of SNET circle .

Social network circle controller can also be adapted to provide additional security related to individuals devices or other entities that have already been granted membership access to SNET circle . For example if a member believes that social device may have been improperly granted membership in SNET circle member can send a challenge to social device successful completion of which will verify that social device has been properly included as a member in SNET circle . As illustrated in member can send the membership challenge to social network circle controller which in turn initiates the challenge response process used to verify that membership has been properly granted to social device . The challenge like the initial membership request can be handled by sending a verification request to a third party verification source sending request for other members to vouch for and verify social device or various combinations thereof.

In other embodiments the challenge can be sent directly from member to the challenge social device . Additionally challenges from a threshold number of different members of SNET circle can result in temporary blacklisting of a device or other member until that device or member can be authenticated or have its trust level confirmed. Various embodiments can also be adapted so that a challenging member such as member can be required to himself pass an authentication trust check or verification before issuing the challenge thereby making it more difficult to prevent attacks by devices or other members that may have been inadvertently admitted as members to SNET circle been permitted to temporarily dock with SNET circle or that have otherwise gained access in desired to maliciously attack one or more members of SNET circle .

If a member is removed for example for failing to properly respond to a challenge issued by another member lack of communication with any other member of SNET circle for a threshold period of time for exceeding a threshold number of authentication attempts for having its trust level drop below a threshold or for some other reason social network circle controller can regenerate the circle keys and send new circle keys or other security information to the remaining members of SNET circle but not to the device that is being removed.

In implementing verification procedures for SNET circle membership second pathway authentication can be used. Second pathway authentication is not limited to the above examples and can include using one social device e.g. a phone to authenticate interactions based on activity taking place via a different social device. For example for particularly sensitive functions such as adding a device or another human to SNET circle membership a second path authentication authorization request can be sent. Once completed all further transactions even those that are sensitive may occur without such secondary path authentication for a period of time configurable .

Additionally in some embodiments an artificial intelligence A I member can be used to identify suspicious activity within an SNET circle. A I member monitors activity records a log of the monitored activity identifies unusual activity triggers authentication challenges and contacts underlying members and devices of interest putting them on notice. Because typical infiltrating users and devices will exhibit unusual behavior which can be detected A I member can improve SNET circle security.

Referring next to various adaptive levels of trust between different members and member types of social network are illustrated. The term trust includes authentication which is a type of trust related to identity and other types or categories of trust for example categories of trust related to truthfulness of information presented or promised. For example a trusted social device can be considered trusted as to identity if it is likely that the device is in fact the device it purports to be. That same device may not be trusted to keep information it receives confidential and trusted to a middling degree to provide the service it purports to provide with an advertised quality of service.

For example if a device member is a mass storage device and advertises that it will provide a certain amount of mass storage at a particular level of service the level of trust associated with the mass storage device can be used to make decisions about whether the device actually does provide the amount of mass storage and at the quality of service indicated. Thus a trust rating of 50 for example might indicate that although the mass storage device advertises a particular level of storage at a particular level of quality there is only a 50 chance that the device will meet its advertised storage and quality levels. In other embodiments trust ratings can be assigned for individual quality types or categories. For example one trust level can be assigned to a device to indicate an ability to deliver stored content at a particular speed while another trust level can be assigned to indicate a percentage of uptime of the device. Other similar quality measurements can be assigned trust levels. In at least some embodiments the trust rating is based on the actual quality provided while in others the trust level is based on whether or not an advertised quality level is achieved. Thus a storage device that provides error free data 75 of the time but advertised error free data 99 of the time would have a lower trust rating than a device that provided error free data only 70 of the time but promised error free data only 65 of the time.

An SNET member can be assigned multiple trust levels associated with different trust categories. Each trust level can but need not be independent of other trust levels assigned to other categories. Additionally an SNET member can be assigned an overall level of trust that can but need not be a weighted average of other trust levels assigned to individual trust types or categories. Furthermore one or more of the trust categories can be adaptive changing over time based on various different factors such as interactions with other SNET members a history of truthfulness verification by trusted sources and the like. Additionally when determining whether communications with a trusted social device can be trusted the trust level of other devices in a chain of devices used to communicate with the target device can be taken into account and the entire chain of devices can be assigned one or more trust levels.

Still referring to Social network infrastructure one example of which has been previously discussed with reference to includes trust management storage unit . Trust management storage can be used to facilitate determining whether members of an SNET are trusted and to what extent those members are trusted. In the context of an SNET trust can include determining a likelihood that a device or person is who they purport to be determining a likelihood that a device offers the services which it purports to offer and determining a likelihood that any particular communication or piece of information received from an SNET member is trustworthy. The same or similar concepts discussed with respect to trust of individual SNET members can also be applied to a chain of members and to circles of SNET members.

Adaptive trust levels can be understood by referring to human member which represents a trust level of a human member upon initially joining an SNET and which illustrates an updated trust level at a later time. At the time human member is granted membership by social network infrastructure he can be assigned a trust level of zero 0 because social network infrastructure has no reason to trust human member .

According to some aspects of the present disclosure one or more levels of trust associated with any particular member can be bolstered based on communications with other members a recorded transaction history a history of trust with other members or with the social network in general a history of trust with particular devices or through a third party trust authority. Bolstering can be performed to update the trust level currently assigned to member in response to a request by a member s itself or in response to a request from an entity other than the member being bolstered. Social network infrastructure can also initiate a bolstering process as part of an SNET maintenance or security plan.

Bolstering can include contacting a trust authority which in various embodiments includes non member persons such as a notary public who can vouch for the identity of human member a law enforcement official such as a department of public safety officer who can verify drivers license information a local city state or federal official who can compare a birth certificate produced by human member with a drivers license or other form of identification a credit verification Bureau or similar individuals or entities. In some implementations contacting trust authority is used in conjunction with trusted member system which can solicit or receive unsolicited information from other members of the SNET regarding the trustworthiness of human member . As illustrated in the trust rating of human can be bolstered from zero 0 at a to 80 80 at through the use of trust authorities and through communication with a trusted member system which can store transaction histories for individual members and chains trust feedback related to transactions with various SNET members a history of trust levels associated with particular devices or the like.

As shown in the illustrated embodiment each parent device has a trust level and each child has a trust level which can be different from each other. But because communications to child members must pass first through the child s parent and because the trust levels assigned to a child may be higher than the trust level assigned to a parent device some embodiments also assign a level of trust to the chain between social network infrastructure and a target device. For example parent device may have a trust level of 80 whereas child device may have a trust level of 65 . In this case the chain of trust runs from social network infrastructure through parent device to child device . In another example of a chain of trust human member is assigned a trust level of 95 parent device is assigned a trust level of only 5 . The chain of trust in this instance runs from social network infrastructure through parent device to human member .

The trust level assigned to a chain can be associated with the entire chain or with only a portion of the chain requiring access. For example when accessing parent device which has an 80 level of trust the level of trust associated with child device may not be important and thus will not be taken into account in determining the level of trust associated with a chain. In a contrasting example child device has a trust level of 65 and so the trust level assigned to a chain that involves communication with child device might be limited to 65 . In some embodiments however determining the level of trust of a chain includes calculating or estimating a statistical probability that includes the trust levels of each device in the chain so a trust level assigned to the chain including parent device and child device could be for example Trust Trust Trust which in this example yields Trust 0.8 0.65 or Trust 0.52. Other suitable methods of calculating the trust level of a chain are within the scope of the present disclosure.

In various embodiments the maximum value of the trust level assigned to a chain may not be limited by the lowest value of the trust in the member of the chain. Furthermore one SNET member can in some circumstances bolster the level of trust assigned to another SNET member. Consider for example a human SNET member who uses many different devices to communicate with the social network. If a history associated with the human SNET member indicates that the human SNET member uses multiple different devices to access the SNET even if those devices have a low trust level themselves the information coming from the human SNET member can have a high level of trustworthiness. In some such circumstances the level of trust assigned to information received via a chain that includes the human SNET member can be assigned a trust level that greater than the trust level assigned to the chain as a whole. The maximum level of trust that can be assigned without a third party trust verification can be limited to prevent individuals or devices from acting in a trustworthy manner under pretext for a short period of time with the intention of later infiltrating the social network.

Referring next to the concepts of trust and trust chain links are discussed with reference to social network infrastructure . Social network infrastructure includes initial account setup trust processing module and various resources used to implement trust rules control access to and otherwise facilitate functioning of social group . The resources include invitations and trust module trust chain module per member access module and access configurations module . Social network infrastructure is connected via a communications link with trust authority which itself is in communication with trust authority and trusted system . Trust authority trust authority and trusted system cooperate with each other to establish verify and adjust one or more trust levels associated with SNET members such as human member device and child device SNET circles SNET chains and the like. The various trust authorities and trusted systems can also be used to verify the trustworthiness of other trust authorities and systems regardless of membership in a particular SNET or SNET circle.

Also illustrated in are trust chain links A D. Trust chain link A illustrates a trust link from a pre established trust relationship between human member and trust authority for example a birth certificate. Using either a direct communication or via an intermediate document e.g. the birth certificate human member can extend the trust chain via another trust authority e.g. passport driver s license service . This can be achieved through an electronic communications link such as a wireless link via staff to staff communication between trust authority and trust authority or both plus interaction with human member or a trusted document for example a driver s license passport etc.

Visual and description information including age gender weight height address social security numbers freshness date or the like can also be delivered from trust authority to trust authority . This information can receive another layer via the trusted authority as it interacts with human member either providing fresh confirmation or adding a superseding entry. Other sources can also be used to verify each of the elements of information transmitted between trust authority and trust authority .

After interacting with trust authority and human member trust authority establishes a trust rating for human member which indicates whether or not any information given seems in conflict or unusual. For example a trust rating of 80 may be given to human member indicating that there is an 80 probability that the associated trust information is correct.

Specific resolution regarding why the rating is not higher or lower may be tied to trust ratings of specific pieces of information used to establish the overall trust level. For example a passport with visual face recognition correlation with human staff confirmation that the person present plus the passport photo are likely the same person might yield an 85 confidence level that the person is who they say they are. A comparison of hospital recorded biometric information obtained at the time human member was born for example an iris print fingerprint or other information with corresponding information obtained at the present time from human member might yield a much higher confidence level for example 95 . The missing 5 might involve elements further up the chain e.g. the trust link associated with the hospital and its staff.

Once human member becomes trusted for example through the interactions just described he may attempt to interact with social network infrastructure through device to establish an account via initial account setup trust processing module . Note that the communication links illustrated between various devices can include one or more wired or wireless communication networks or links along with any needed bridging routing and access nodes between those devices.

When setting up the account human member can provide information identifying himself and other associated information. From such information initial account setup trust processing module interacts with the trust authority either at the same time or post facto to gather trust information and ratings of . These ratings can be used by initial account setup trust processing module to establish its own trust ratings and construct challenge questions that will be used to challenge human member via device . Overall from such queried interactions information received from trust authority information received directly from human member via device and received trust ratings new trust information and updates can be generated and stored in one or more of trust chain database access control invitations and trust and access configuration . The trust ratings updates and other information can also be communicated in whole or in part back to trust authority for storage or distribution to other storage locations.

Note that in various instances when generating adaptive trust ratings newer data may be overlaid onto the older data without producing or replacing the older data at least to an extent permitted by storage. Overlaying the data permits newer data and older data to be taken into account given different weightings based on currency of the information and allows an overall trust rating to settle at a particular level over time.

At this point human member has established a trust rating and trust relationship with social network infrastructure but device is not yet trusted. This can be problematic in some instances because account information received from device could have been provided by an imposter posing as human member . Some embodiments therefore fully confirm the account information via interactions between human member and a trusted device trusted person or both for example via trust link B. This might involve human member going back to the trust authority or to another location where a trusted device is available and through which a trust relationship can be confirmed through interaction between initial account setup trust processing module and human member via a trusted interface. Such trusted information can also be further layered in via storage in social network infrastructure and trust authority . Likewise other trust authorities could be used by human member to buttress his trust level. For example trust authority could directly interact with trust authority for further confirmation or to gather further trust information e.g. What was your mother s maiden name and where were you born which might not be available from trust authority .

In various embodiments once human member is established as a trusted member he can confer trust to one or more of his parent devices such as the device . Device is referred to as a parent of human member because communications between social network infrastructure and human member pass through device . Conferring trust from human member to device establishes another link in the trust chain illustrated as trust link C. One way for human member to confer trust to device is by downloading one or more trusted software applications from initial account setup trust processing module onto device .

The downloaded software could analyze the device for malware security level capabilities tampering indications and identify of any trust servicing components such as cameras fingerprint readers or other biometric systems and the like. In many instances biometrics can play an important role in verifying and maintaining trust with a device connected to a social network. For example constant or periodic challenges and checks using biometrics if included in a device can allow the device to maintain a higher trust level than devices not having such biometric input.

The software can in some embodiments remove malware or suggest a way to repair problems via other third party software. The software can also report security threats tampering etc. to human member or Social network infrastructure . After it has been established that device is clear of malware or other security threats a trust level can established for the device. In some implementations even if malware existed device can be granted membership but the trust level could reflect the presence of malware and device could be red flagged.

Once device becomes a member of the SNET chain of trust link C can be established between human member and device now the trusted parent member . In some embodiments after device becomes a member of the SNET associated with social network infrastructure device can deliver capability social services control configuration status etc. information to initial account setup trust processing module . Such information might indicate that is capable of servicing child human members child device members or only operate as a standalone device. In addition and likely in response initial account setup trust processing module delivers social operating program code if not pre loaded by the manufacturer in the form of drivers API s Apps and associated data for future use by device . All of such information along with trust information can be stored by various elements of social network infrastructure . Thereafter periodically upon device logging in to the SNET or otherwise such information can be used to challenge and verify the authenticity of with some degree of trust.

At this point human member and device have received trust ratings which may change over time as interactions and challenges occur. To add child device as a trusted member human member and device can interact to vouch for child s trustworthiness. Alternatively or in addition might assist in the process of establishing the chain of trust link D to child device . Both can occur especially wherein the device is a child device i.e. a device that interacts with social network infrastructure only via another device. For example child device might be a printer or a television whereas device might be a computer or a set top box STB . In either case child device may operate as a standalone device with an upstream interface to device and not directly with social network infrastructure .

In such cases child membership for child device could be established via device . This can in some embodiments involve device retrieving and delivering to social network infrastructure information regarding child device and the link to child device . It can also involve carrying out trust challenges between device and child device or between social network infrastructure and child device with bridging of such challenges via device . Child device might also deliver trust program code received from initial account setup and trust processing or human member for example apps drivers firmware etc. to child device to establish and maintain trust levels of child device .

Device might also assist in helping child device perform better socially. For example child device might not be a social device but instead be designed to service only a single device . With additional software running on device for example a social driver received from social network infrastructure device and members of a social network associated with social network infrastructure can gain access to status controls interfaces and services offered by child device . In some cases child device can raise its trust level post facto by being taken to or otherwise directly interacting with a trusted device or authority that has a higher trust rating than that of device . And even if the trust level is not higher trusted device or authority can increase the trust level of child device because an additional different trust chain E is used.

Similarly although possibly contributing lesser levels of trust level or rank enhancements other members devices or humans can vouch for any other member creating another trust chain link and further bolstering the trust level of such trusted member. In various embodiments even with a zero level of trust rating all members could participate and thereafter build trust in the variety of ways mentioned above. Whether high or low each member can be represented within their groups circles with trust indicators. For example using the rainbow frequency sequence the more trusted the more moving toward purple and having a mouse over textual rating number such as 80 . The less trusted moving more toward red for example no trust being red and mouse over identifies 0 . Also based on trust levels a social group can place limitations via per member access control and constraints on access control and other constraints. For example in one implementation only members with 70 trust levels can gain access to my home video while members with 20 trust levels can access third party video stored in a trusted NAS child member device not shown .

For various device members of an SNET trust can extend to malware free ratings as well as authentication. In other words authentication can be extended to cover an authenticated service and service interactions. In other words if a member is who it says it is and the member does what it promises to do the member s ratings go up. This can allow trust levels to can adapt over time and increase or decrease as services are received or preformed. In some instances multiple separate trust ratings and indications are used. For example in a sales shopping group a star rating may be 5 based on a large number of satisfied member purchasers an identity authentication rating i.e. I am who I say I am is quite low perhaps at 10 while operating a sales portal member server that has no independently established trust beyond that obtained from successful transactions.

In various embodiments granting membership to device includes extending social group and can be accomplished by an icon drag and drop on a representation of social group displayed on an SNET interface not illustrated . Once device is granted membership in social group human member can via device add himself to a social group which can in some instances be a particular social circle or sub group using a drag and drop procedure. Then other member humans or devices can be added to social group in a similar manner. Furthermore human member can alter or create a default set of rules establishing the basis for other members human or devices adding further members to the social group .

Referring next to adaptation of a human member to human member chain of trust over time is illustrated and discussed. Human member is a member of a particular SNET SNET circle or the like and over time interacts with other human members and of the same SNET etc. The level of trust between human member and other human members and can vary over time depending on interactions with other SNET or circle members interactions with third party or trusted authorities and based on specific trust vouching over time. For example consider the case where human member establishes a trust level of 15 initially. Establishment of an initial trust level has been previously discussed with reference to . In some embodiments this trust level indicates a chain of trust that includes a trust level that takes into account not only the level of trust of the human member but also the level of trust accorded to devices used by the human member to communicate with SNET infrastructure not illustrated . In other embodiments however the human to human chain of trust is based only on the level of trust accorded to human member .

When initially interacting with human member before human member has established a history of trusted interactions with SNET members the chain of trust between human member and human member from the point of view of human member is 15 . In some embodiments this percentage refers to either the likelihood that human member is who he claims to be or the likelihood that the information provided by human member to human is accurate truthful and complete. In other embodiments however the trust percentage refers to an overall likelihood that that human member is trustworthy and takes into account more than one factor. For purposes of this example the indicated percentage refers to an overall level of trustworthiness. Thus when human member receives information from human member for example a sports score driving directions contact information a referral a link to downloadable content information related to accessing a device under control of the human member or the like there is a 15 chance that the information is correct usable virus free or the like.

A level of trust can be built over time based on various different interactions with the social network. Thus for example if a human member signs in an SNET under the name Bob Smith multiple times and then signs into the same SNET using the name Bob Jim Smith the trust rate of human member may go down since he has used different names which may raise some question as to whether or not Bob Jim Smith is the same person is Bob Smith. The amount of affect on the trust rating such changes may have can be dependent on the circumstances so that in some cases use of the middle name Jim may actually increase the trust rating of human member .

The trust level assigned to a member or trust chain can also be based at least in part on a history of providing trustworthy information. This trust history can be based on various metrics tracked by SNET infrastructure third parties or individual members. In some embodiments members interacting with other members provide to an SNET server trusted authority or other device or entity feedback related to those interactions. Thus part of a member s interaction history can include feedback from other members related to trustworthiness positive feedback from other members can increase a member s trust rating and negative feedback can decrease a member s trust rating. Furthermore in some embodiments members can vouch for other member s trustworthiness based on one member s personal knowledge of the other member. In those cases where member vouching is used the trust level of the vouching member can affect the weight given to any particular member s recommendation or vouching.

Assume for purposes of this example that over time human member interacts numerous times with human member and other human members and that during that time the information provided by human member has been trustworthy and he thereby establishes a positive trust history. Because human member has established a history of providing trustworthy information the trust level of human member increases over time and by the time human member interacts with human member the level of trust has increased from 15 to 85 .

As noted earlier levels of trust can be adjusted downward as well as upward. Thus if human member begins providing untrustworthy information his level of trust can decrease for example from 85 to 65 as illustrated by the trust level of the chain of trust between human member and human member . This reduction rating can come about not only through providing untrustworthy information to human member but also through the failure of human member to act according to SNET norms take promised actions or otherwise act in a trustworthy manner with regard to other members of a social network or with regard to entities trusted by SNET members such as trusted third party authorities credit reporting agencies or the like. Note that the member himself may attempt to accomplish the promised actions but thwarted by untrustworthy devices that are infected with viruses or the like. As another example if a human member consistently vouches for other members or consistently joins devices to the SNET and the members and that are not trustworthy the human members trust rating related to adding new members could be downgraded. Regardless of whether the apparent untrustworthiness of the human member is his fault or the fault of some device in the chain between human members the trust level of the chain of trust can result in a lower trust level for human . For example if human member consistently uses an unreliable Internet service that prevents transfers of promised files other human members can begin to doubt that promised files will actually be delivered by human member and provide negative feedback related to the trustworthiness of human member .

Referring next adaptation of a level of trust related to a device member to device member trust chain over time is illustrated according to various embodiments of the present disclosure. Many of the concepts related to human member to human member trust chains which were previously discussed with respect to apply equally to device member to device member trust chains. As illustrated in device member is a member of a particular SNET SNET circle or the like and over time interacts with other device members and which can be members of the same SNET circle the same SNET or a different SNET. Each of the illustrated device members and can be a parent SNET member a child SNET member or both. Furthermore each of the illustrated devices can be a single device or a system and in cases where one or more of device members and represent systems the chain of trust represents a chain of trust between device member and a system in general or between a device within a particular system. In some implementations the chain of trust between a device and a system can include a chain of trust between different SNET circles hosted by the same device or different devices or between generally unrelated social networks.

Device member is illustrated as having an established chain of trust with human member . The chain of trust between device and human member can have a trust level unrelated to the trust level associated with the chain of trust between device and device for example if no interaction with human is involved in a particular transaction. However in some cases the trust level associated with the chain of trust between device and human member is taken into account in establishing a level of trust between device member and device member even if no human interaction is involved in a particular transaction. Some such examples include situations in which human member is a primary operator or sponsor of device member and situations in which human member has administrator or some other high level of access to device member that would permit human member to tamper with device member . The trust level of the chain of trust between device member and human member can also be taken into account when human member is specifically involved in a transaction.

The level of trust between device member and other device members and can vary over time depending on interactions with other SNET or circle members interactions with third party or trusted authorities and based on specific trust vouching over time. For example the chain of trust between device member and device member can have an initial value of 15 which indicates a level of trust device member has for device at an initial time. Note that the level of trust assigned to a chain can be considered from the point of view of either device member or and in some cases the level of trust in a trust chain can be the same for both devices for example when the chain of trust is based on how trustworthy the communications pathway is without taking into account the trust level of the endpoint device. In some such embodiments the trust level of the chain of trust can be used by each endpoint device or by SNET infrastructure to obtain an overall level of trust for a particular communication or transaction. In some instances the trust level of the chain of trust can be used to determine overall levels of trust from the perspective of each endpoint device. In many circumstances one endpoint device member may be trusted for at least some transactions more than the other endpoint device is trusted so reference to a trust level of a chain of trust can be different depending on which device s perspective is used to evaluate the chain of trust.

Specific examples used herein assume that the trustworthiness of the chain of trust is evaluated from the perspective of device members and but similar principles apply to different perspectives. For example the chain of trust between device member and device member is illustrated as 15 . Thus from the point of view of device member there is a 15 chance that a transaction being conducted with device member is trustworthy. This 15 level of trust can take into account the trustworthiness of intermediate devices or systems not illustrated that are used for conducting the transaction as well as the current trust level of device member . But the level of trust assigned to a trust chain or a device is adaptive and can change over time based on various circumstances.

As shown by the trust chain between device member and device member the trust level of device member and thereby the trust level associated with a device to device trust chain associated with device member can be increased over time by device member acting in a trustworthy manner. For example if device member consistently provides advertised services as promised e.g. within an advertised time or at an advertised level of quality. In contrast the trust chain between device member and device member illustrates that the level of trust associated with a trust chain or device can also decrease over time. For example if device member acquires a virus at some point after achieving its 85 trust rating and it becomes known for example that a small percentage of files transferred by device member are infected the trust rating of a device to device trust chain associated with device member can decrease for example from 85 to 65 . The drop in trustworthiness can be caused by inclusion of another less trustworthy SNET member in the chain of trust. In the illustrated example including human member whose trustworthiness is rated at 35 can be a factor in lowering the trust level of member device or the chain of trust between member device and member device .

In various embodiments different trust levels can be assigned to the same trust chain for different purposes or types of transactions. For example the same device member can have a high trust rating related to providing the type or quantity of services advertised but a lower rating related to the advertised quality of those services. As another example the same device or trust chain can have a high trust level related to identity and a lower trust level related to information security.

Referring next to an example of nesting of trust levels is illustrated and discussed according to various embodiments. illustrates how multiple nested levels of trust can affect the adaptive trust level or rating of an SNET member whether that member be a human device service or otherwise.

Consider for example a human who connects to an SNET through two or more different devices. In such a situation another SNET member may need to determine not only whether the human member can be trusted but also whether the devices through which the human connects to the SNET can be trusted. And if the trustworthiness of the human member and the devices are established by other members vouching for their trustworthiness consideration should be given to the trustworthiness of the vouching member Thus a vouching member s recommendation may be discounted if the vouching member s credibility is low. But what if the vouching member s credibility is reasonably high but was based only on interactions with less trustworthy members or based on interactions over a short period of time In essence to determine the trustworthiness of an individual the basis of that trustworthiness can in some embodiments be examined in an iterative manner all the way back to the initial source of trust. In colloquial language how much trust you grant to a friend of a friend of a friend depends on the trustworthiness of each friend in the chain of friends.

As used in the following example an adaptive trust probability which represents an overall level of trust of that particular member or device is assigned to a human member or device . Similar principles can be applied where the adaptive trust probability represents particular types or categories of trust rather than an overall trust. The trust rating for the human member or device depends upon both an adaptive trust probability contribution from a first human voucher and upon the adaptive trust probability contribution from a trusted authority . In some embodiments the adaptive trust probability of both human voucher and trusted authority can be used to calculate an adaptive trust probability for human member or device .

Various probabilistic algorithms can be used as known to those of skill in the art of statistics but in at least one embodiments the trust probabilities of human voucher and trusted authority are simply multiplied together or otherwise weighted. In some such cases the trust probability of the trusted authority can be given greater weight than the trust probability of human voucher by virtue of its position as a trusted authority. So for example if the adaptive trust probability of trusted authority is 90 and the adaptive trust probability of the first human voucher is 40 the adaptive trust level of member human or device can be 

As noted above the adaptive trust levels of both trusted authority and human voucher are also based on underlying trust levels. For example the adaptive trust probability of first human voucher is based on adaptive trust probability of underlying human voucher and the adaptive trust probability conferred to first human voucher by SNET interactions. The adaptive trust probability of underlying human voucher is in turn dependent on inherent vouching through interactions with other members reported vouching based on feedback from other members and contributions from a trusted authority . Similarly the adaptive trust probability of trusted authority is based on time and thoroughness of the trust processing which in turn is based on the probability of the authority s ability to establish justifiable trust the probability associated with the member being evaluated by the trust authority as well as information age and other adaptive probability update factors .

As can be seen from the illustrated example therefore the trust level accorded to member human or device is dependent upon contributions from multiple nested or underlying trust layers each of which can apply the same or different probabilistic methods to obtain a trust level which is combined with other trust levels to obtain an aggregate or combined trust level.

Referring next a flowchart illustrating a method according to various embodiments of the present disclosure is illustrated and discussed. At block a social device establishes membership in a first circle of the social network. Membership can be established in the first circle of the social network using various methods and procedures previously discussed including for example sending a request to a host of a social network requesting membership in the first circle of the social network in passing authorization invalidation hurdles as required by the social network circle to which membership is requested. As used herein the term membership may also refer to temporary docking to a social network circle or the like. In response to establishing membership in the first social network circle as illustrated by block the social device obtains and stores the secret associated with the first social network circle. The secret can be obtained via communication with a host of the social network via electronic communication with one or more members of the first social network circle or via some other pathway. Regardless of the way in which the secret or key is obtained for the first network circle the social device can store this secret using various methods such as a key store segregated and protected memory a security key fob or the like.

As illustrated at block membership is established in a second social network circle. The second social network circle may be part of the same social network as the first social network circle or part of a different social network. At block the secret circle key token or other security information associated with the second social network circle is received and stored. The information for the second social network circle can be stored in a different memory than that used to store the information associated with the first social network circle or in a single memory that has been segregated. In some embodiments the secrets for the first social network circle and the second social network circle can be stored in a single key store if desired.

Once membership in both social network circles has been established in the secrets associated with each of the network circles are stored the social device is in a position to communicate and participate in both network circles. Assuming for purposes of the present example only that the first circle and second circle are part of the same social network as illustrated at block a communication is received via the social network. As illustrated at block a check is made to determine whether the communication received via the social network is coming from the first social network circle. If the communication received is from the first social network circle then the social device can respond to the communication using the secret associated with the first network circle at block .

If it is determined at block that the communication is not from the first social network circle a check is made at block to determine whether the communication is from the second network circle of which the social device is also a member. If the communication is determined that block to be from the second network circle social device can communicate with the social network circle and respond to the communication using the circle secret associated with the second social network circle as illustrated by block .

As illustrated at block if the communication is from neither the first social network circle nor the second social network circle the device can refuse to respond to the communication via the social network. In some embodiments the refusal to allow access via the social network can include simply ignoring the communication sending a response that the source of the communication is not authorized access resources of the social network or some other appropriate response indicating that the requester communication is being refused.

Referring next a flowchart illustrating method is illustrated and discussed according to various embodiments of the present disclosure. At block a request for membership is received at an SNET circle. The request for membership can be received at a host of the SNET circle at a host of the SNET even if the host of SNET is not also hosting the SNET circle at a member of the SNET circle or at a non circle member device authorized according to circle protocol to process requests for membership in the SNET circle.

As illustrated at block in response to receiving a request for membership members of the SNET circle can be polled for approval of the membership request. The information sent to members requesting approval of the request can include a request to vouch for the prospective member. In some instances the request can also include a selectable list of predefined categories or reasons for approval or disapproval of the request. For example the list may include items related to a length of time an SNET member has known the prospective member whether the SNET member knows the prospective member through social business or professional relations or the like.

At block a check is made to determine whether more verification is required before allowing the prospective member to join or dock with the social network circle. If more verification is required block illustrates that a third party trust verification can be performed. Third party verification can in some instances include integrating trusted authorities such as driver s license passport services biometric data notary process universities companies etc. into a membership environment at block . In some implementations trust authorities can provide a trust digital signature that can be appended to an SNET account. For example the department of motor vehicles can be used to very a driver s license number an embassy can be used to verify passport information a notary public could be used to verify age a bank can be used to confirm a digital wallet etc.

If the third party trust verification is successful the communication channel can be secured as illustrated at block using various public private key encryption techniques or otherwise. Once the communication channel has been secured at block the prospective member can be sent the SNET circle key at block which will allow the new member to communicate with other members in a secure fashion. As illustrated by block third party trust verification can be bypassed in some instances. Furthermore although not specifically illustrated third party trust verification may be performed in place of sending members of the SNET circle a request for approval. As illustrated by block if the prospective member is not verified membership or docking in the SNET circle may be refused.

Referring next to a flowchart illustrating method for removing a current member s access to an SNET circle is illustrated and discussed according to various embodiments of the present disclosure. As illustrated at block a notice that a member is being removed or undocked from a social network circle or whose access is otherwise being removed from one or more rings or circles of a social network is received. At block a check is made to determine whether the member being removed is a member of the currently considered SNET circle or ring. If not the method proceeds to block where determination is made as to whether there are more circles or rings to process. If there are more circles or rings to process the method returns to block where a check is made to determine whether the member being removed is a member of the next circle or ring to be considered.

Once it is determined that block that the member being removed is a member of the currently considered SNET circle or ring a new circle secret can be determined that block . The new circle secret can be in some instances a private key encoded using a public key. In other embodiments however different types of circle secrets can be used. The new circle secret can be determined by a host of the social network or a host of the social network circle if those two entities are different. Thus in some instances a host of the social network may receive the notice of member removal at block and send a request to the host of the SNET circle requesting that host to generate a new circle secret which can be returned to the host of the social network for distribution at block . In other embodiments a member device can act as the host of both the social network and the SNET circle or various functions used to implement the social network or social network circle can be distributed among various different devices.

After the new circle secret has been distributed to the remaining members at block another check can be made at block to determine whether there are any more SNET circles from which the member device may need to be removed. If there are more SNET circles to which the member might have access the method returns to block . If there are no more SNET circles to which the current member is known to have access method ends. In cases where removal of a member of an SNET circle is handled by the SNET circle itself as opposed to being handled by an overall social network with multiple sub circles the method illustrated in essentially collapses to determining new circle secrets and distributing the new circle secrets to the remaining members of the SNET circle but not to the member being removed from the SNET circle.

Referring next a flowchart illustrating a method used to verify that non circle members are authorized to receive circle content is illustrated and discussed according to various embodiments of the present disclosure. At block a request for protected content is received from the member of another SNET circle or an entity that is not a member of the current SNET circle. In some instances the request can come from within the same social network but from an SNET circle having a different level of trust. In other instances the request may come from a member of a different social network or from a device that is not a member of any social network or social network circle. For purposes of this example it can be assumed that the request comes from another member of the same social network but from a different SNET circle. The same or similar techniques can be used to handle requests from other types of sources.

A block a determination is made whether members of the SNET circle from which the request is received is authorized to access the particular resource requested. Thus for example if a request for audio video content is received from an SNET circle having a trust level that is higher or equal to the trust level of the SNET circle from which the audio video content is requested it may be determined that the requester is authorized to receive the content simply on the basis of the requester s membership in the other SNET circle.

As illustrated at block if members of the SNET circle from which the request for protected content is received has a lower trust level than the trust level of the SNET circle holding the protected content access to the protected content can be denied. In some applications rather than simply denying the request reduce quality content can be delivered based on circle settings or parameters. Thus for example if the requester is a member of the circle that has limited trust a reduce quality version of the protected content can be sent to the member of the other SNET circle. If however the requester is a member of an SNET circle having a very low trust level transmission of the protected content can be denied. Furthermore method can be used in conjunction with various digital rights management DRM or content protection standards are schemes without departing from the spirit and scope of the present disclosure.

If it is determined at block that members of the SNET circle from which the request is received are authorized an additional check can be made as illustrated at block to determine whether the requester is the type of member or device authorized to receive protected content. For example even though members of a particular SNET circle may be authorized to receive the protected content there may be a block on sending content to particular types of recording devices. Thus a digital video disk DVD recorder that is a member of an SNET circle in which members are generally permitted to receive the protected content may still be blocked from receiving the protected content because of its device or member type.

As illustrated at block if it is determined that the requester is a member of an SNET circle authorized to receive protected content and is also of a device or member type authorized to receive protected content the protected content can be sent to the requesting member. To continue with the previous example protected content may be permitted only to non recording devices regardless of whether circle members are otherwise authorized to receive the protected content. Thus a television display that is a member of the same SNET circle to which the previously mentioned DVD recorder belongs would be permitted to receive the protected content even though the DVD recorder might not be permitted to do so.

The social device further includes processing circuitry operable to process and manage communications services and associations between the device and other entities including members of an SNET circle third parties software agents etc. More particularly the processing circuitry may include for example a SNET management application comprising one or more of docking logic communication protocol control and security authentication functionality .

The social device further may utilize profile information that can take many forms and be maintained in a static or dynamic memory such as memory . Such profile information enables a social device and or user to present an image of itself and its capabilities to other members of an SNET. As described more fully below device and user profile information and may be utilized in various ways in accordance with the invention to facilitate a variety of social interactions. Depending on the capabilities and requirements of a particular device and other members of an SNET a device or user profile may be static or dynamic.

In addition to memory used to store device and user profile information and social device can include protected memory to implement a keystore or used to store other sensitive information. In various embodiments protected memory can be segmented and used to store keys or other circle secrets associated with multiple different SNET circles with which the social device interacts. For example a portion of protected memory can be dedicated to interactions with circle another portion dedicated to circle and yet a third portion dedicated to circle . Any of these circles can belong to the same or different social networks. Furthermore although not specifically illustrated multiple different SNET circles can use different profile information and device profile information and user profile information can also be stored in a protected segregated memory that allows information associated with any particular SNET circle to be used substantially only in conjunction with communications related to that SNET Circle.

In certain embodiments the social device interacts with a user s via user interface circuitry . User input to the social device may include for example data entry through a keypad touchscreen remote control device gaming controller device control buttons voice or gesture commands storage device etc. Authorized access to or control of the social device can be facilitated through unique biometric identifiers passwords token based identification trusted authorities or documents such as a driver s license or passport and like authentication means.

Social device also performs core or underlying functionality various examples of which are described herein. Alternatively the social device may primarily function as a social networking interface or communication device or be programmable to perform specific functions within an SNET circle sub circle.

Referring now to a schematic block diagram is shown for a social device operable to support various interactions between other social devices and social systems in accordance with an embodiment of the invention. The social device is configured with a variety of functions that enable it to operate in a social device hierarchy comprising social S devices social parent SP devices and social child SC devices. For example a social parent device may enable a docked social child device to access resources of the parent device and or connect to and interact with directly or indirectly with a social network. The social child device may be configured with inherent social capabilities or gain access to such capabilities from or through an associated parent device. Further a human SNET member might have associated social child devices or be served by a social parent device via a user I O interface .

A social device according to various embodiments and applications of the invention may also concurrently or selectively function as a social device SP device SC device or even a grandparent device that supports e.g. in a multi hop environment a parent device in a SNET group. In some embodiments social device can also function as part of SNET infrastructure and be used to implement server functionality. Dynamic and static hierarchical associations between SP and SC devices may be established in a selective automatic or automated manner. Further a social device may take many forms including without limitation a smartphone personal computer server tablet device access point gateway network switch hub bridging device set top box or other device enabled with social capabilities.

In the illustrated embodiment the social device is communicatively coupled to a SNET infrastructure and or social parent system via upstream social communication interface circuitry . Likewise downstream social peer and or child communication interface circuitry enables coupling with a social child device social peer device and or social parent system device . Social resources of both upstream and downstream devices may be accessible to one another via the social device .

The social device of this embodiment includes social resources that along with external SNET resources are managed by a social resource management module and accessible to at least one other SNET group member. Specific social resources may include user I O interfaces general purpose and dedicated hardware processing circuitry peripheral circuitry and components which may or may not have social capabilities communication bandwidth and credit determination functionality switching bridging functions application software etc.

Among other functions the social resource management module comprises allocation arbitration and scheduling functionality as well as the functionality for establishing regaining and relinquishing control processing operations . It is noted that counterpart resource management functionality may be present in the SNET infrastructure and or other SNET nodes.

In one exemplary embodiment wherein the social device comprises a switching bridge bandwidth capacity may be dynamically allocated by allocation arbitration and scheduling functionality . Access to bandwidth capacity and other resources of the social device might be available only upon request or per arbitration functions and selectively terminated when excessive bandwidth resources are consumed or requested.

SNET circle communications in accordance with various embodiments described herein can utilize a variety of transmission protocols. By way of example most communication over the Internet is currently performed in accordance with the Transmission Control Protocol TCP and User Datagram Protocol UDP . As is known TCP typically provides an intermediate level of communication services between for example an application program and the Internet Protocol IP . Port numbers are used to identify end points for sending and receiving applications on a host often referred to as Internet sockets or network sockets . Internet sockets facilitate delivery of incoming data packets to an appropriate application process or thread as determined by a combination of local and remote e.g. SNET circle IP addresses and port numbers. In some embodiments the Real time Transport Protocol RTP running over UDP may be employed for media streaming applications real time multiplayer gaming voice over IP VoIP and like applications that are tolerant of a certain level of packet loss and may not require a dedicated end to end connection.

In some embodiments transmissions between SNET circle members and between members of different SNET circles can employ various port addressing and masking techniques to further enhance security. IDs of transmitting devices can be protected by blocking snooping of headers use of internal IP addresses proxies security agents VPN tunneling or the like.

As may be used herein the terms substantially and approximately provides an industry accepted tolerance for its corresponding term and or relativity between items. Such an industry accepted tolerance ranges from less than one percent to fifty percent and corresponds to but is not limited to component values integrated circuit process variations temperature variations rise and fall times and or thermal noise. Such relativity between items ranges from a difference of a few percent to magnitude differences. As may also be used herein the term s operably coupled to coupled to and or coupling includes direct coupling between items and or indirect coupling between items via an intervening item e.g. an item includes but is not limited to a component an element a circuit and or a module where for indirect coupling the intervening item does not modify the information of a signal but may adjust its current level voltage level and or power level. As may further be used herein inferred coupling i.e. where one element is coupled to another element by inference includes direct and indirect coupling between two items in the same manner as coupled to . As may even further be used herein the term operable to or operably coupled to indicates that an item includes one or more of power connections input s output s etc. to perform when activated one or more its corresponding functions and may further include inferred coupling to one or more other items. As may still further be used herein the term associated with includes direct and or indirect coupling of separate items and or one item being embedded within another item. As may be used herein the term compares favorably indicates that a comparison between two or more items signals etc. provides a desired relationship. For example when the desired relationship is that signal has a greater magnitude than signal a favorable comparison may be achieved when the magnitude of signal is greater than that of signal or when the magnitude of signal is less than that of signal .

As may also be used herein the terms processing module module processing circuit and or processing unit may be a single processing device or a plurality of processing devices. Such a processing device may be a microprocessor micro controller digital signal processor microcomputer central processing unit field programmable gate array programmable logic device state machine logic circuitry analog circuitry digital circuitry and or any device that manipulates signals analog and or digital based on hard coding of the circuitry and or operational instructions. The processing module module processing circuit and or processing unit may have an associated memory and or an integrated memory element which may be a single memory device a plurality of memory devices and or embedded circuitry of the processing module module processing circuit and or processing unit. Such a memory device may be a read only memory random access memory volatile memory non volatile memory static memory dynamic memory flash memory cache memory and or any device that stores digital information. Note that if the processing module module processing circuit and or processing unit includes more than one processing device the processing devices may be centrally located e.g. directly coupled together via a wired and or wireless bus structure or may be distributedly located e.g. cloud computing via indirect coupling via a local area network and or a wide area network . Further note that if the processing module module processing circuit and or processing unit implements one or more of its functions via a state machine analog circuitry digital circuitry and or logic circuitry the memory and or memory element storing the corresponding operational instructions may be embedded within or external to the circuitry comprising the state machine analog circuitry digital circuitry and or logic circuitry. Still further note that the memory element may store and the processing module module processing circuit and or processing unit executes hard coded and or operational instructions corresponding to at least some of the steps and or functions illustrated in one or more of the figures. Such a memory device or memory element can be included in an article of manufacture.

The present invention has been described above with the aid of method steps illustrating the performance of specified functions and relationships thereof. The boundaries and sequence of these functional building blocks and method steps have been arbitrarily defined herein for convenience of description. Alternate boundaries and sequences can be defined so long as the specified functions and relationships are appropriately performed. Any such alternate boundaries or sequences are thus within the scope and spirit of the claimed invention. Further the boundaries of these functional building blocks have been arbitrarily defined for convenience of description. Alternate boundaries could be defined as long as the certain significant functions are appropriately performed. Similarly flow diagram blocks may also have been arbitrarily defined herein to illustrate certain significant functionality. To the extent used the flow diagram block boundaries and sequence could have been defined otherwise and still perform the certain significant functionality. Such alternate definitions of both functional building blocks and flow diagram blocks and sequences are thus within the scope and spirit of the claimed invention. One of average skill in the art will also recognize that the functional building blocks and other illustrative blocks modules and components herein can be implemented as illustrated or by discrete components application specific integrated circuits processors executing appropriate software and the like or any combination thereof.

The present invention may have also been described at least in part in terms of one or more embodiments. An embodiment of the present invention is used herein to illustrate the present invention an aspect thereof a feature thereof a concept thereof and or an example thereof. A physical embodiment of an apparatus an article of manufacture a machine and or of a process that embodies the present invention may include one or more of the aspects features concepts examples etc. described with reference to one or more of the embodiments discussed herein. Further from figure to figure the embodiments may incorporate the same or similarly named functions steps modules etc. that may use the same or different reference numbers and as such the functions steps modules etc. may be the same or similar functions steps modules etc. or different ones.

Unless specifically stated to the contrary signals to from and or between elements in a figure of any of the figures presented herein may be analog or digital continuous time or discrete time and single ended or differential. For instance if a signal path is shown as a single ended path it also represents a differential signal path. Similarly if a signal path is shown as a differential path it also represents a single ended signal path. While one or more particular architectures are described herein other architectures can likewise be implemented that use one or more data buses not expressly shown direct connectivity between elements and or indirect coupling between other elements as recognized by one of average skill in the art.

The term module is used in the description of the various embodiments of the present invention. A module includes a functional block that is implemented via hardware to perform one or module functions such as the processing of one or more input signals to produce one or more output signals. The hardware that implements the module may itself operate in conjunction software and or firmware. As used herein a module may contain one or more sub modules that themselves are modules.

While particular combinations of various functions and features of the present invention have been expressly described herein other combinations of these features and functions are likewise possible. The present invention is not limited by the particular examples disclosed herein and expressly incorporates these other combinations.

