---

title: Capturing reflected light from a sampling surface
abstract: A mechanism is disclosed for capturing reflected rays from a surface. A first and second lens aligned along a same optical center axis are configured so that a beam of light collimated parallel to the lens center axis directed to a first side, is converged toward the lens center axis on a second side. A first light beam source between the first and second lenses directs a light beam toward the first lens parallel to the optical center axis. Second light beam source(s) on the second side of the first lens, direct a light beam toward a focal plane of the first lens at a desired angle. An image capturing component, at the second side of the second lens, has an image capture surface directed toward the second lens to capture images of the light reflected from a sample capture surface at the focal plane of the first lens.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08570522&OS=08570522&RS=08570522
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08570522
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120629
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 769 974 filed on Apr. 29 2010 entitled CAPTURING REFLECTED LIGHT FROM A SAMPLING SURFACE at least some of which may be incorporated herein.

Real life objects can look different when viewed from different angles and when illuminated from different directions and or angles. For example when facing a low lying sun a landscape may have a particularly different appearance than when viewing the same landscape at high noon. Painters and photographers often explore the appearance of trees landscapes people and urban areas under a variety of conditions in order to accumulate knowledge about how things look .

A reason that things look differently under different conditions can be related to how light is reflected from the surface of viewed objects. Light reflected in one direction may make an object appear different than when it is reflected in a different direction. Further structural and optical properties of the surface of viewed objects such as shadow casting multiple scattering mutual shadowing transmission reflection absorption and emission by surface elements can also affect how an object appears. These characteristics of an object can be summarized by the reflectance on real world objects and the reflectance of a surface can be determined by a Bidirectional Reflectance Distribution Function BRDF . Determining BRDFs for example can be useful for creating realistic computer generated CG images.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key factors or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

When one wishes to model a particular object for example as a computer generated CG image e.g. a piece of architecture tree furniture etc. they may attempt to determine Bidirectional Reflectance Distribution Functions BRDFs for that object. However capturing BRDFs that have high resolution in both a spatial and angular domain is difficult. The surface of an object can often comprise a myriad of variations in surface elements angles and materials that absorb or reflect light each of which adds to how that object appears in the real world. Measuring BRDFs for various objects can generally take hours of measurement and processing and use of large specialized and expensive hardware rigs. As a result not many materials have been measured for high resolutions BRDFs.

Systems are disclosed that provide for a relatively small inexpensive and easily manipulated apparatus that can capture images of light reflected from a sampled surface. Further the disclosed systems can provide a variety of illumination positions and angles thereby providing a more complete and accurate sequence of reflectance images from a sample for example when moved across the sample s surface. The image information captured by the systems described herein may be utilized to determine BRDFs for the surface of an object for example thereby providing for more accurate CG imagery in a more efficient and cost effective manner than is conventionally known.

In one embodiment of an apparatus for capturing a field of reflected rays from a sample surface at least a first and second lens are disposed along a same optical center axis where the respective lenses are configured so that a beam of light passing through the lens and collimated parallel to the lens center axis from a first side is converged toward the lens center axis on a second side. Further at least one first light beam source is between the first and second lenses directing a light beam toward the first lens parallel to the optical center axis. Additionally one or more second light beam sources are on the second side of the first lens and they direct a light beam toward a focal plane of the first lens at a desired angle from the focal plane. An image capturing component at the second side of the second lens has an image capture surface directed toward the second lens and it captures images of the light reflected from a sample capture surface at the focal plane of the first lens.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends the following description and annexed drawings set forth certain illustrative aspects and implementations. These are indicative of but a few of the various ways in which one or more aspects may be employed. Other aspects advantages and novel features of the disclosure will become apparent from the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the annexed drawings.

The claimed subject matter is now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the claimed subject matter. It may be evident however that the claimed subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the claimed subject matter.

An apparatus may be devised that provides for capturing light reflected from a surface that is subjected to sampling. That is for example light directed toward a surface intended to be sampled can reflect from the sample surface and be captured for further processing. Light directed toward a surface can exhibit a variation of reflectance which can also vary with different materials. Rich details of a material s surface may also change based on a position of the observer and a position of the light source. Surfaces of a variety of materials can be sampled and light reflected from the sampling surface can be captured for example to create a computer generated image of a surface which exhibits real world visual characteristics of the sampled material.

A first light beam source or more than one is disposed between the first lens and the second lens . The first light beam source directs a light beam toward the first lens parallel to the optical center axis . One or more second light beam sources are disposed at the second side B of the first lens where they direct a beam of light toward a focal plane e.g. at a focal point of the first lens at a desired angle e.g. chosen for a desired reflectance affect from the focal plane .

One or more second light beam sources are disposed on the second side B of the first lens . These one or more second light beam sources respectively direct a light beam toward the focal plane of the first lens at a desired angle from the focal plane . That is for example a second light beam source can provide side lighting to a sample surface that is placed at the focal plane. The second light beam sources provide the side lighting at a desired angle for example to compliment the top lighting provided by the first light beam source s . In this way in this example a plurality of reflections from the sample surface can be created from a plurality of positions and at angles that may provide for desired resulting reflected light capture.

An image capturing component is disposed on the second side B of the second lens . The image capturing component has an image capture surface that faces the second lens and captures images that are made up of light reflected from a sample capture surface at the focal plane of the first lens . In one embodiment the image capture surface of the image capturing component can be disposed at a distance from a focal plane e.g. comprising a focal point of the second lens that provides a desired image focus for the reflected light .

In one embodiment the first and second light beam sources are directed toward an intended sample surface at a desired point on the surface. That is for example a plurality of second light beam sources can be pointed toward the focal plane of the first lens and the first light beam source can be positioned such that its beam of light is converged at the focal plane of the first lens. In this way in this example the first light beam source provides a top light source and the second light beam sources provide side light sources from a variety of positions. Therefore light is reflected from the sample surface at a plurality of angles and positions and that reflected light can be directed back to the second lens which converges the reflected light toward it s focal plane . The reflected light can then be captured as an image or series of images by the image capture component .

In one aspect real world materials exhibit rich and detailed reflectance variation for example due to textures surface shapes types of materials and other structural and optical properties of the surface. These reflectances can be acquired to produce realistic computer generated CG imagery of the materials. Objects look differently when viewed from different angles locations and when light sources illuminate the objects from different angles locations. Bidirectional reflectance distribution functions BRDFs give reflectance of a target surface as a function of illumination geometry and viewing geometry. That is for example a BRDF can help identify what an object s surface may look like based on the angle location of illumination and the angle location of the point of view. In this aspect light reflected from a surface at variety of locations and angles can be captured and BRDFs may be determined for that material. In this way in this example the surface of an object may be more realistically modeled for CG imagery.

In one embodiment as illustrated in the exemplary embodiment of an aperture is defined between the image capturing component and the second lens at the second side of the second lens. The center of the aperture is aligned along the optical center axis and a plane formed by the aperture is aligned with the focal plane of the second lens . In one embodiment an aperture e.g. can provide for a desired cone angle for the reflected light e.g. at the focal plane e.g. thereby providing a desired image quality e.g. focus depth of field etc. at the image capture surface of the image capture device e.g. .

An aperture can determine a cone angle of a plurality of reflected light rays that come to focus on an image plane such as at the image capture surface. That is for example a small e.g. narrow aperture may provide for highly collimated light rays that result in a sharper image at the image plane on the image capture surface. Whereas as a larger aperture which provides for a plurality of uncollimated rays may result in sharpness for merely those rays having a focal length that matches the image plane on the image capture surface. In this way for example a size of the aperture may determine sharpness and other image qualities for the images of reflected light at the image capture surface.

In one embodiment a device configured to detect reflected light such as the apparatus of for example can comprise a casing as illustrated by the exemplary embodiment of . In this embodiment the casing can be configured to mitigate e.g. prevent most if not all light infiltration from outside the casing to inside the casing. That is for example the casing is designed to merely allow light from the first and second light beam sources to be directed toward the sample surface and be reflected back to the image capture device preventing extraneous light from affecting the sampling. In this way in this example light sources angles and locations can be controlled for BRDF determination.

As illustrated in the casing can also be configured to provide for mounting the lenses and aperture inside the casing in alignment along the optical center axis e.g. of . For example the casing may be cylindrical and have an inner diameter that is devised to merely fit an outer diameter of a cylindrical lens. In this way for example the lenses could be fastened in place at an appropriate location such as using a type of adhesive or a mechanical fixture or fastener inside the casing.

Further as an example the aperture may be formed by mounting an aperture ring inside the casing. In one embodiment the aperture ring may be comprised of a same material and formed together with the casing. In another embodiment the aperture ring may be inserted into the casing and fastened therein at an appropriate location such as coplanar with the focal plane of the second lens. It will be appreciated that the aperture is not limited to any particular size and may be sized to fit a desired result for a particular application or sampling.

In one embodiment as illustrated in the exemplary embodiment of the casing can comprise a sample capture opening that is disposed at the second side of the first lens . The sample capture opening can allow light from the first and second light sources to reach a sample capture surface that is placed adjacent to the sample capture opening . As an example the example embodiment of an apparatus can be held against a surface that is intended for sampling with the sample capture opening held adjacent to the sampling surface which is coplanar with the focal plane of the first lens . In this way in this example light from the first light source will focus on the sample surface and light from the second light source s will illuminate the sample surface.

In the above example light reflected from the sample surface is directed toward the first lens and back toward the image capture surface of the image capture component. In one embodiment the casing can comprise a mechanism for mounting at least the image capture surface of the image capture component inside the casing. That is for example the casing can be devised to provide a way to mount the image capture surface at an appropriate distance from the aperture such that the image capture surface is coplanar with a desired image plane for light reflected from the sample surface. In this way in this example at least the image capture surface is mounted inside the casing so that merely reflected light from the sample surface reaches its surface and not light from outside the casing .

It will be appreciated that the systems described herein are not limited to any particular embodiment for mounting the image capture component. For example merely the image capture surface such as a complementary metal oxide semiconductor CMOS sensor of the image capture component such as a digital camera can be located inside the casing in order to capture the reflected light. However in another example an entire camera or portions thereof may be disposed inside the casing such that the reflected light reaches the sensor of the camera at the desired image plane.

In one embodiment the casing can comprise a mechanism for mounting the light beam sources. As illustrated in the exemplary embodiment of a light beam source may be comprised of a light source and a light tube which can direct the light from the light source as a beam to a desired location. For example the light source may comprise a light emitting diode LED which typically emits light in a plurality of directions. The light source can be disposed in a light tube such that merely a light beam is emitted at a desired direction. The light beam source e.g. comprised of the light source and the light tube can be mounted by a mechanism comprised by the casing.

In one embodiment the mechanism for mounting the first light beam source may be comprised of an optically clear casing insert that anchors the first light beam source at a desired position between the first and second lenses . As an example an acrylic disk e.g. may be inserted inside the casing in which can be mounted the first light beam source at a desired position. In this example the acrylic disk or some other optically clear polymer glass or material that does not alter an angle of light passing through it at a perpendicular direction may comprise an opening in which the light tube e.g. of the light beam source can be mounted.

In one embodiment the first light beam source is disposed at a distance from the optical center axis that provides for light from the first light beam source to reach the lens axis at a desired angle of bias from the optical center axis. That is for example with reference to varying the distance between the first light beam source from the optical center axis can vary the angle at which the light beam from the first light beam source intersects the optical center axis at the focal plane . As illustrated in a light beam directed toward the first lens from position has a larger angle of bias from the optical center axis than the light beam directed from the position . The first light beam source may be mounted at such a distance that provides for a desired result such as for a desired type of sampling. Further a plurality of first light beam sources may be mounted at a same or varied distances from the optical center for example in order to provide top lighting for the sample surface from a variety of angles.

In one embodiment the mechanism for mounting the one or more second light beam sources can provide for mounting the second light beam source entirely inside the casing such as illustrated in the example embodiments of of . That is for example five second light beam sources A E can be arranged relatively equidistant from each other around the sample capture opening mounted in such a way as to provide for the second light beam sources to direct their light beams toward the sample capture opening e.g. to provide a plurality of lighting perspectives .

In another embodiment the mechanism for mounting the one or more second light beam sources can provide for mounting the second light beam source so in a way that merely provides for the light beam to be directed toward the sample capture surface placed adjacent to the sample capture opening . That is for example the mounting mechanism may provide for mounting the second light beam source e.g. A E completely or partially outside the casing in a way that allows the light to still reach the sample capture opening . One example of this embodiment is illustrated in where the casing comprises openings that provide for mounting the five second light beam sources A E so that the light beams are directed toward the sample capture opening .

It will be appreciated that the number of first and second light beam sources are not limited to the embodiments described herein. As an example as illustrated by the exemplary embodiment of a plurality of second light beam sources may be disposed around the sample capture opening . In one embodiment a size of the sample capture opening which may be dictated by a type and size of a sampled surface may necessitate additional second light beam sources and or first light beam sources .

As illustrated in the exemplary embodiment of five second light beam sources may provide five illuminated areas A E on a sample capture surface in the sample capture opening while the first light beam source provides a single illuminated area on the sample capture surface in the sample capture opening . In this way for example a significant portion of the sample surface can be illuminated during sampling. In another embodiment as illustrated in of eight second light beam sources can provide for eight illuminated areas A H on a sample capture surface in the sample capture opening . Further in this embodiment three first light beam sources can provide three illuminated areas A C on a sample capture surface in the sample capture opening .

In one embodiment the respective lenses may comprise plano convex condenser lenses where the first side of each lens is a non focal point side and the second side is a focal point side. An example of plano convex lenses is illustrated in the exemplary embodiment of . The lenses and respectively comprise a flat side piano and a side that curves outward convex . In this example the focal point side is typically the flat side of the lens where light beams are focused toward the lens s central axis and the non focal point side is typically the convex side where light beams are collimated parallel to the lens s central axis.

It will be appreciated that the lenses and lens arrangements are not limited to those embodiments described above. As an example as illustrated by the exemplary embodiment of of and of the lens may be different shapes and can be arranged in different configurations. As an example in the respective lenses are plano convex and are arranged such that the convex sides face each other. In this example the first light beam source is disposed on the plano side of lens angled such that when then light beam from this light passes through lens it is collimated to the center axis before reaching lens . At lens the light beam is converged toward the focal plane of lens for example at the sample surface.

In the example the lenses are bi convex. This arrangement of lenses can also provide for light beams to be focuses toward the center axis at either side of the lens arrangement. In this way light from the first light beam source is converged toward the axis of lens for example at a sample surface. The resulting reflected light is collimated by lens parallel to the center axis and at lens it is converged towards a focal plane for example and the resulting image can be captured at the image plane by the image capture component .

Further the apparatus is not limited to merely two lenses. For example as illustrated in respective bi convex lenses and are disposed adjacent to two plano concave lenses . As described above light from the first light beam source is converged toward the axis of the combined lenses and for example at the sample surface. The resulting reflected light is collimated by the combined lenses and parallel to the center axis and at the combined lenses and the reflected light is converged towards the focal plane.

In one embodiment the image capture component may have a computing device connector that allows for images captured by the image capture device to be provided to a computing device. illustrates an exemplary embodiment of how the apparatus may be connected to a computing device. The image capture component having its image capture surface disposed inside the casing is connected to a computing device . The connection between the image capture component and the computing device is not limited to any particular embodiment. For example common connections utilized may comprise an IEEE 1394 interface e.g. firewire a USB connection or a wireless connection e.g. radio frequency such as wifi or Bluetooth . In this way for example the captured images can be processed by the computing devices such as to compute BRFDs.

As an alternate embodiment illustrates an example system for capturing sparse light direction measurements from reflected rays from a sample surface. A compound lens comprising at least two lenses and where the compound lens has a focal plane at both a first B and second B end. A first light source directs light toward the focal plane at the first end B where a light beam from the first light source has an angle of bias from an optical center axis of the compound lens of greater than or equal to zero degrees and less than or equal to forty five degrees.

In this embodiment one or more second light sources direct light toward the focal plane at the first end B where a light beam from the second light source has an angle of bias from the focal plane of less than or equal to forty five degrees and greater than or equal to zero degrees. An image capture device is disposed at the second end B to capture light reflected from the focal plane of the first end B at an image plane of the second end B.

In one embodiment the image plane of the second end such as disposed coplanar to an image capture surface of the image capture device and the second end B of the compound lens define an aperture e.g. as illustrated by of between them where the aperture is coplanar with the focal plane of the second end B with its center aligned along the optical center axis . As described above this aperture can provide a desired cone angle for the reflected light such as from a sample surface disposed coplanar to the focal plane at the first end B.

In one embodiment the exemplary system described above can be disposed in a casing that mitigates light infiltration from outside to inside the casing such as illustrated by of . In this embodiment with reference to and the casing can comprise a sampling window e.g. that is disposed at the first end B adjacent to the focal plane of the first end B. The sampling window can provide for light from the first and second light sources to reach a sample surface that may be placed adjacent to the sampling window such as at the focal plane .

Further in this embodiment the casing can comprise a mechanism for mounting an image capture surface e.g. of of the image capture device at the image plane of the second end B. In this way as described above at least the image capture surface is disposed inside the casing thereby allowing merely light reflected from the sample surface to be captures by the image capture device for example and not extraneous light.

In one embodiment with reference to and the exemplary system can comprise a first light source mounting mechanism e.g. that provides for mounting the first light source so that light from the first light source remains inside the casing e.g. until light from the first light source reaches the sampling window e.g. . That is the mounting mechanism allows the first light source to direct light toward the first end B of the compound lens where it is converged toward the focal plane of the first end B for example at which may be placed a sample surface.

Further in this embodiment the exemplary system can comprise a second light source mounting mechanism that provides for mounting the second light source so that light from the second light source remains inside the casing e.g. until light from the second light source reaches the sampling window e.g. . That is the mounting mechanism provides for the one or more second light sources for example to be mounted around the sampling window with their light beams directed toward the focal plane of the second end B.

In one embodiment the first light source can be disposed between the first and second lens inside the compound lens . In this embodiment light from the first light source is directed toward the sampling window e.g. and the first and second lens are disposed in a manner inside the compound lens that merely accommodates the first light source . In this embodiment the first light source is placed between the lenses of the compound lens with its beam aiming toward the first end B for example to provide top light illumination to a sample surface at the focal plane . In this embodiment for example an optically clear disk e.g. may be employed to mount the first light source between the lenses in the compound lens .

In one embodiment with reference to the image capture device has a mechanism e.g. that provides for images captured by the image capture device to be provided to a computing device e.g. . In this embodiment the computing device can be configured to compute microfacet bidirectional reflectance distribution functions BRDFs . That is for example a plurality of images of reflected light may be collected by the image capture device as the casing comprising the exemplary system is moved over a sample surface. In this way in this example the plurality of images may be used by the computing device to calculate BRDFs for the sample surface e.g. to create CG images of the surface .

In one embodiment the exemplary system such as of may comprise a mechanism for adjusting particular elements of the system. A mechanism may be provided that adjusts the aperture e.g. of such as to sharpen the image at the image plane on the image capture surface. Further a mechanism may be provided that adjusts a distance of the aperture from the image capture surface such as to provide for additional focus and image enhancements. Additionally a mechanism may be provided that adjusts a distance between the first and second lens such as to adjust the focal plane at either or both of the first and second ends of the compound lens.

In another embodiment other adjustment mechanisms may be provided. A mechanism may be provided that adjusts a color of the respective lights sources for example in order to correct for sample surface conditions. A mechanism may be provided that adjusts a brightness of respective light sources such as to enhance or adjust desired sampling conditions.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

As used in this application the terms component module system interface and the like are generally intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a controller and the controller can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers.

Furthermore the claimed subject matter may be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement the disclosed subject matter. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. Of course those skilled in the art will recognize many modifications may be made to this configuration without departing from the scope or spirit of the claimed subject matter.

Although not required embodiments are described in the general context of computer readable instructions being executed by one or more computing devices. Computer readable instructions may be distributed via computer readable media discussed below . Computer readable instructions may be implemented as program modules such as functions objects Application Programming Interfaces APIs data structures and the like that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Typically the functionality of the computer readable instructions may be combined or distributed as desired in various environments.

In other embodiments device may include additional features and or functionality. For example device may also include additional storage e.g. removable and or non removable including but not limited to magnetic storage optical storage and the like. Such additional storage is illustrated in by storage . In one embodiment computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein may be in storage . Storage may also store other computer readable instructions to implement an operating system an application program and the like. Computer readable instructions may be loaded in memory for execution by processing unit for example.

The term computer readable media as used herein includes computer storage media. Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions or other data. Memory and storage are examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM Digital Versatile Disks DVDs or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by device . Any such computer storage media may be part of device .

Device may also include communication connection s that allows device to communicate with other devices. Communication connection s may include but is not limited to a modem a Network Interface Card NIC an integrated network interface a radio frequency transmitter receiver an infrared port a USB connection or other interfaces for connecting computing device to other computing devices. Communication connection s may include a wired connection or a wireless connection. Communication connection s may transmit and or receive communication media.

The term computer readable media may include communication media. Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal may include a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal.

Device may include input device s such as keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device infrared cameras video input devices and or any other input device. Output device s such as one or more displays speakers printers and or any other output device may also be included in device . Input device s and output device s may be connected to device via a wired connection wireless connection or any combination thereof. In one embodiment an input device or an output device from another computing device may be used as input device s or output device s for computing device .

Components of computing device may be connected by various interconnects such as a bus. Such interconnects may include a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI such as PCI Express a Universal Serial Bus USB firewire IEEE 1394 an optical bus structure and the like. In another embodiment components of computing device may be interconnected by a network. For example memory may be comprised of multiple physical memory units located in different physical locations interconnected by a network.

Those skilled in the art will realize that storage devices utilized to store computer readable instructions may be distributed across a network. For example a computing device accessible via network may store computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein. Computing device may access computing device and download a part or all of the computer readable instructions for execution. Alternatively computing device may download pieces of the computer readable instructions as needed or some instructions may be executed at computing device and some at computing device .

Various operations of embodiments are provided herein. In one embodiment one or more of the operations described may constitute computer readable instructions stored on one or more computer readable media which if executed by a computing device will cause the computing device to perform the operations described. The order in which some or all of the operations are described should not be construed as to imply that these operations are necessarily order dependent. Alternative ordering will be appreciated by one skilled in the art having the benefit of this description. Further it will be understood that not all operations are necessarily present in each embodiment provided herein.

Moreover the word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as advantageous over other aspects or designs. Rather use of the word exemplary is intended to present concepts in a concrete fashion. As used in this application the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . That is unless specified otherwise or clear from context X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is if X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B then X employs A or B is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims may generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form.

Also although the disclosure has been shown and described with respect to one or more implementations equivalent alterations and modifications will occur to others skilled in the art based upon a reading and understanding of this specification and the annexed drawings. The disclosure includes all such modifications and alterations and is limited only by the scope of the following claims. In particular regard to the various functions performed by the above described components e.g. elements resources etc. the terms used to describe such components are intended to correspond unless otherwise indicated to any component which performs the specified function of the described component e.g. that is functionally equivalent even though not structurally equivalent to the disclosed structure which performs the function in the herein illustrated exemplary implementations of the disclosure. In addition while a particular feature of the disclosure may have been disclosed with respect to only one of several implementations such feature may be combined with one or more other features of the other implementations as may be desired and advantageous for any given or particular application. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes having has with or variants thereof are used in either the detailed description or the claims such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising. 

