---

title: Generating a personalized video mosaic in a cable services network
abstract: Methods and systems are provided for generating a personalized video mosaic from multiple of video sources in a cable television services system. A head end receives a subscriber selection of video sources from multiple video sources broadcast in the television services system and generates a personalized video mosaic from those sources. The head end then transmits the personalized video mosaic to the subscriber for simultaneous viewing of the selected video sources on a broadcast channel in the cable television services system. The set-top box executes an application program enabling the subscriber to individually select the video sources which make up the personalized video mosaic and transmits the selections to the head end. The set-top box enables the display of the personalized video mosaic on the broadcast channel in the cable television services network.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08990855&OS=08990855&RS=08990855
owner: Cox Communications, Inc.
number: 08990855
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121211
---
The present application is a continuation of application Ser. No. 11 704 700 filed Feb. 9 2007 which claims priority to Provisional Application No. 60 772 153 filed Feb. 10 2006.

With the advent of modern television services networks such as cable and satellite systems subscribers have grown accustomed to receiving a variety of television programming from numerous broadcasting sources. In recent years technology advances have enabled subscribers to receive an even greater variety of products and services through television services networks. For example modern cable services networks provide traditional video television programming telephone services high speed Internet access electronic mail services video on demand information services and the like. Through the use of set top boxes computing systems cable and satellite television services providers can provide interactive television services to subscribers. Such interactive television services allow customers to interact directly with service providers in response to services and product offerings presented to the subscribers through their television sets.

Recently many television services providers are beginning to offer dedicated mosaic channels in which live feeds of multiple programming are broadcast on a single video channel on the provider s networks. Currently mosaic channels display a scaled down windows of currently broadcasting programs selected by the provider in one or more categories i.e. news sports etc. also selected by the provider along with non program based audio from a live host or background music.

Current mosaics however only offer content which is determined by the service provider. Thus subscribers have no control over the programs which make up a particular mosaic channel. Moreover the content selected by the service provider may not be of interest to some subscribers. It is with respect to these and other considerations that the present invention has been made.

In accordance with the present invention the above and other problems are solved by methods and systems for generating a personalized video mosaic from multiple video sources in a cable television services system. The methods and systems enable a subscriber to select multiple video sources broadcast from a head end for simultaneous display on a single broadcast channel in the cable television services system.

According to one aspect of the invention a method is provided for generating a personalized video mosaic from multiple video sources in a cable television services system. The method includes receiving in a cable television services head end a subscriber selection of video sources from multiple video sources broadcast in the cable television services system. The method further includes generating in the head end a personalized video mosaic the personalized video mosaic including the video sources selected by a subscriber. Finally the method includes transmitting the personalized video mosaic from the head end to the subscriber for simultaneous viewing of the selected video sources on a broadcast channel in the cable television services system.

Various other aspects of the invention may be implemented by a head end and a set top box in a cable television services system. The head end is operative to receive a subscriber selection of video sources from multiple video sources broadcast in the cable television services system and generate a personalized video mosaic from those sources. The head end then transmits the personalized video mosaic to the subscriber for simultaneous viewing of the selected video sources on a broadcast channel in the cable television services system. The set top box is operative to receive the personalized video mosaic from the head end and which is further operative to execute an application program enabling the subscriber to individually select the video sources which make up the personalized video mosaic and transmit the selections to the head end. The set top box is further operative to display the personalized video mosaic on the broadcast channel in the cable television services system.

Still other aspects of the invention may be implemented by an apparatus for generating a multiple video windows for use in a personalized video mosaic which includes multiple video sources broadcast in a cable television services system. The apparatus includes de multiplexer means for de multiplexing an input video stream including the multiple video sources a transcoder for decoding and decompressing each of the video sources into a common raw format a scalar for scaling the plurality of video sources from a full screen format into configurable sized video windows compression means for compressing the configurable sized video windows into a configurable bit stream at a configurable bit rate and multiplexer means for multiplexing the compressed video windows into an output video stream for selecting the personalized video mosaic.

These and various other features as well as advantages which characterize the present invention will be apparent from a reading of the following detailed description and a review of the associated drawings.

Referring now to the drawings in which like numerals represent like elements various embodiments of the present invention will be described. These embodiments may be combined other embodiments may be utilized and structural changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the present invention. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of the present invention is defined by the appended claims and their equivalents. According to an actual embodiment the present invention is implemented in a cable television services system in communication with one or more telecommunications sources. is a block diagram illustrating a cable television services system architecture hereinafter referred to as CATV system that serves as an illustrative operating environment for the present invention.

Referring now to digital and analog video programming information content and interactive television services are provided via a hybrid fiber coax HFC network to a television set for consumption by a cable television services system customer. As is known to those skilled in the art HFC networks combine both optical fiber and coaxial cable lines. Typically optical fiber runs from the cable head end to neighborhoods of 500 to 2 000 customers. Coaxial cable runs from the optical fiber feeders to each customer. According to embodiments of the present invention the functionality of the HFC network allows for efficient bidirectional data flow between the client side set top box and the server side application server of the present invention.

According to embodiments of the present invention the CATV system is in the form of a distributed client server computing system for providing video and data flow across the HFC network between server side services providers e.g. cable television services providers via a server side head end and a client side customer via a client side set top box set top box functionally connected to a customer receiving device such as the television set . As is understood by those skilled in the art modern CATV systems may provide a variety of services across the HFC network including traditional digital and analog video programming telephone services high speed Internet access video on demand and information services.

On the client side of the CATV system digital and analog video programming and digital and analog data are provided to the customer television set via the set top box . Interactive television services that allow a customer to input data to the CATV system likewise are provided by the set top box . As illustrated in the set top box is a multipurpose computing device having a computer processor memory and an input output mechanism. The input output mechanism receives input from server side processes via the HFC network and from customers via input devices such as the remote control device and the keyboard . The remote control device and the keyboard may communicate with the set top box via a suitable communication transport such as the infrared connection . The set top box also includes a video processor for processing and providing digital and analog video signaling to the television set via a cable communication transport . A multi channel tuner is provided for processing video and data to and from the set top box and the server side head end system described below.

The set top box also includes an operating system for directing the functions of the set top box in conjunction with a variety of client applications . For example in accordance with one embodiment of the present invention a client application enables a customer subscribed to a personal video mosaic service to select a list of multiple video sources i.e. channels comprising the personalized video mosaic for transmission to the head end and enables the display of the personalized video mosaic broadcast channel on the television .

Because a variety of different operating systems may be utilized by a variety of different brands and types of set top boxes a middleware layer is provided to allow a given software application to be executed by a variety of different operating systems. According to an embodiment of the present invention the middleware layer may include a set of application programming interfaces APIs that are exposed to the client applications and operating systems that allow the client applications to communicate with the operating systems through common data calls understood via the API set. As described below a corresponding middleware layer is included on the server side of the CATV system for facilitating communication between a server side application server and the client side set top box . According to one embodiment of the present invention the middleware layer of the server side application server and the middleware layer of the client side set top box format data passed between the client side and server side according to the Extensible Markup Language XML .

The set top box passes digital and analog video and data signaling to the television via a one way communication transport . The set top box may receive video and data from the server side of the CATV system via the HFC network through a video data downlink and data via a data downlink. The set top box may transmit data from the client side of the CATV system to the server side of the CATV system via the HFC network via one data uplink. The video data downlink is an in band downlink that allows for digital and analog video and data signaling from the server side of the CATV system through the HFC network to the set top box for use by the set top box and for distribution to the television set . As is understood by those skilled in the art the in band signaling space operates at a frequency between 54 and 860 megahertz. The signaling space between 54 and 860 megahertz is generally divided into 6 megahertz channels in which may be transmitted a single analog signal or a greater number e.g. up to ten digital signals.

The data downlink and the data uplink illustrated in between the HFC network and the set top box comprise out of band data links. As is understand by those skilled in the art the out of band frequency range generally lies between zero and 54 megahertz. According to embodiments of the present invention data flow between the client side set top box and the server side application server is typically passed through the out of band data links. Alternatively an in band data carousel may be positioned in an in band channel into which a data feed may be processed from the server side application server through the HFC network to the client side set top box . Operation of data transport between components of the CATV system described with reference to is well known to those skilled in the art.

Referring still to the head end of the CATV system is positioned on the server side of the CATV system and includes hardware and software systems responsible for originating and managing content for distributing through the HFC network to client side set top boxes for presentation to customers via televisions . In accordance with the various embodiments of the present invention the head end is operative to generate a personalized video mosaic from multiple video sources broadcast in the CATV system for distribution to the set top box and for presentation to customers via the television .

The application server is a general purpose computing system operative to assemble and manage data sent to and received from the client side set top box via the HFC network . According to embodiments of the invention the application server may also be utilized to obtain subscriber profile data from services provider data services for preparing a subscriber profile that may be utilized by the set top box for tailoring certain content provided to the customer.

As illustrated in the services provider data services include a number of services operated by the services provider of the CATV system which may include data on a given customer. For example a billing system may include information such as a customer s name street address business identification number Social Security number credit history and information regarding services and products subscribed to by the customer. An electronic mail system may contain information such as electronic mail addresses high speed Internet access subscription information and electronic mail usage data. An authentication system may include information such as secure user names and passwords utilized by customers for access to network services.

The subscriber information database may include general information about customers such as place of employment business address business telephone number and demographic information such as age gender educational level and the like as well as information about subscribed services such as whether or not a customer has high speed Internet access an e mail account and premium programming access. In addition to the aforementioned services and in accordance with the various embodiments of the present invention the subscriber information database may also include information as to whether or not a customer subscribes to the personalized video mosaic service briefly described above and which will be described in greater detail below. As should be understood by those skilled in the art the disparate data services systems are illustrated as a collection of data services for purposes of example only. The example data services systems comprising the data services may operate as separate data services systems which communicate with a web services system described below along a number of different communication paths and according to a number of different communication protocols.

Referring still to a web services system is illustrated between the application server and the data services . According to embodiments of the present invention the web services system serves as a collection point for data requested from each of the disparate data services systems comprising the data services . When the application server requires customer profile data from one or more of the data services for preparation or update of a customer profile the application server passes a data query to the web services system . The web services system formulates a data query to each of the available data services systems for obtaining any available data for a given customer as identified by a set top box identification associated with the customer. The web services system serves as an abstraction layer between the various data services systems and the application server . That is the application server is not required to communicate with the disparate data services systems nor is the application server required to understand the data structures or data types utilized by the disparate data services systems. The web services system is operative to communicate with each of the disparate data services systems for obtaining necessary customer profile data. The customer profile data obtained by the web services system is assembled and is returned to the application server for ultimate processing via the middleware layer as described above.

It should be understood that the broadcast video sources may comprise both analog and digital video sources. It should be appreciated that in one embodiment the head end may include additional hardware not shown for converting the analog video sources to digital video via analog to digital A D conversion. Various methods of A D conversion are well known to skilled in the art. In one embodiment the digital video sources either native or converted from analog sources may be formatted according to the MPEG 2 digital video compression standard although it will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that the digital video sources may be formatted according to other video compression standards such as MPEG 4 or alternatively the digital video sources may in an uncompressed i.e. raw format.

The router multiplexes the video sources into a single video stream and forwards the video stream to a scaling transcoding multiplexer SXM . Similarly the router multiplexes the video sources into a single video stream and forwards the video stream to SXM . In one embodiment of the present invention the multiplexed video streams forwarded to the SXMs and are gigabit Ethernet GbE video streams with each stream including as many as 250 of 3.5 megabits per second quality MPEG 2 bit streams. It will be understood by those skilled in the art that the actual number of bit streams in a GbE stream may vary depending upon various factors including GbE overhead initial stream bit rates and the format of the input bit streams. Each of the encapsulated video sources in the multiplexed video streams received by the SXMs and may be identified by format and bit rate.

The multiplexed video streams forwarded by the routers and are attached to the SXMs and . The SXMs and are operative to handle multiple input video streams and performs scaling transcoding i.e. converting from one format to another and multiplexing of each input video stream after being de multiplexed from the received multiplexed video streams . The components comprising the SXMs and will be described in greater detail below with respect to .

The multiplexed output from the SXMs and are combined into a single output video stream by the router and forwarded to compositors . In one embodiment of the present invention the output video stream is a single GbE connection capable of handling thousands of compressed video streams e.g. a single GbE connection may include 10 000 video sources at a 64 kilobit per second bit rate . The compositors are general purpose computers which receive return channel input via the set top box from return path proxy .

In particular according to one embodiment of the present invention the compositors are configured to receive a selection of video sources in the output video stream from return path proxy . The return path proxy is a general purpose computer configured to receive video sources selected from the set top box by a subscriber via for example an on demand session for utilizing a personalized video mosaic of subscriber selected video sources or mosaic channels. The return path proxy instructs the compositors to select the video sources making up the personalized video mosaic from the output video stream. It will be understood by those skilled in the art that the return path proxy may receive the return channel input via quadrature phase shift key QPSK return path demodulator which demodulates signals received from the set top box via RF combiner .

After receiving the return channel input from the return path proxy each of the compositors composite i.e. select combine and if necessary convert the video streams comprising the personalized video mosaic into a single video mosaic stream for delivery to a subscriber associated with the set top box . For example according to one embodiment of the present invention the compositors may be configured to composite MPEG 4 video sources into a single MPEG 2 or MPEG 4 video mosaic stream for delivery to the subscriber. Those skilled in the art will understand that the mosaic video sources composited in the compositors may undergo quadrature amplitude modulation QAM via QAM units prior to being communicated to the set top box via the RF combiner . The functionality of the compositors will be described in greater detail below with respect to .

In particular the multiplexer de multiplexes an input video stream comprising the broadcast video sources and communicates the de multiplexed video sources to the transcoder . The transcoder transcodes each of the video sources into a common raw format. In particular the transcoder decodes and decompresses video sources which may have been formatted according to different digital video compression standards e.g. MPEG 2 MPEG 4 etc. . Once each of the video sources has been transcoded into a common format the video sources are then communicated to the scalar which scales the video from each video source from an initial i.e. full screen format into a configurable sized window. For example a full screen size of 640 480 having 65 536 colors i.e. 16 bit color may be scaled down into a video window having a size of 80 60 with 256 colors i.e. 8 bit color . After the video sources have been scaled into video windows the video sources are communicated to the compressor which compresses each of the video windows into a configurable bit stream at a configurable bit rate. For example the compressor may compress the video window into an MPEG 4 bit stream at a bit rage of 64 kilobits per second. The compressor communicates the compressed video windows to the multiplexer which combines each of the compressed video windows into a single output video stream. The multiplexer also communicates the output video stream to the compositors via the router . It should be appreciated that the functionality of the multiplexer the transcoder the scalar and the compressor may be implemented using discrete or integrated components known to those skilled in the art.

Referring to the subscriber profile information gathered by the web services system from one or more of the data services systems is assembled into a data structure for provisioning the set top box . As illustrated in a name address telephone number email address age and gender for a given customer have been obtained and have been populated into the subscriber profile . As described above such information may be gathered from any number of data services systems such as the billing system the email system the authentication system or the subscriber information database . Additionally following from the example subscriber profile illustrated in subscription information for the associated customer has been obtained and has been populated into the subscriber profile. For example information regarding services or products subscribed to by the customer is provided such as high speed Internet subscription email subscription premium programming subscription and video mosaic service . With respect to the video mosaic service the subscription information may also include customer preferences regarding which channels will be represented in the mosaic. These preferences may be indicated in a personalized video mosaic PVM channel list .

Referring now to an illustrative routine will be described illustrating a process performed in the head end of the CATV system client applications for generating a personalized video mosaic from multiple video sources. The routine begins at operation wherein the compositors receive a subscriber selection of video sources comprising a personalized video mosaic. In particular as described above the compositors receive a request for a specific personalized video mosaic from a subscriber associated with the set top box via the return path proxy . It will be appreciated that according to one embodiment of the present invention the video sources or channels comprising the personalized video mosaic may be selected on demand by a subscriber using an interactive television ITV user interface consisting of menus and selection boxes generated by the set top box . After the subscriber selections have been made they are sent via the return channel to the return path proxy for forwarding to the compositors . According to an alternative embodiment of present invention the channels comprising the personalized video mosaic may be retrieved from a subscriber profile such as the subscriber profile discussed in . In this embodiment a subscriber may select video mosaic channels by updating the subscriber profile stored in the set top box . Once the set top box is initialized or booted the subscriber profile including any selected personalized video mosaic channels are communicated to the return path proxy for forwarding to the compositors .

The routine then continues from operation at operation where the compositors de multiplex the input video stream received from the SXMs and via the router . As discussed above in the SXMs and have scaled broadcast and local origination video sources in the CATV system into compressed video windows and multiplexed the video windows into a single video stream. The routine then continues from operation at operation where the compositors select video sources from the input video stream corresponding to the requested video sources comprising the personalized video mosaic. The routine then continues from operation at operation where the compositors multiplex the video sources to generate the personalized video mosaic. In particular the compositors combine the various video windows corresponding to the subscriber selected channels into a single output video stream.

The routine then continues from operation at operation where the compositors transmit the personalized video mosaic to the requesting subscriber including program audio. In particular the personalized video mosaic is transmitted to the requesting set top box which receives the mosaic and broadcasts each of the selected video windows simultaneously on a predetermined broadcast channel in the CATV system . It should be understood that the compositors in transmitting the personalized video mosaic also transmits audio signals associated with each of the broadcast or local origination video sources comprising the personalized video mosaic thus enabling a subscriber to listen to program audio while simultaneously viewing a selected video window on the predetermined broadcast channel in the CATV system . It should further be understood that the compositors also transmits the position of the video windows comprising the personalized video mosaic to be displayed on a television screen display by the set top box .

The routine then continues from operation at operation where the compositors determine if the same mosaic i.e. the same video sources has been requested by other subscribers. If at operation the same personalized video mosaic has not been requested then the routine returns to operation where the compositors select video sources corresponding to the newly requested mosaic. If at operation the same personalized video mosaic has been requested then the routine continues from operation at operation where the compositors retransmit the personalized video mosaic to the additional subscriber set top boxes. From operation the routine then ends.

Referring now to the television screen display includes a personalized video mosaic consisting of video windows which show video streams corresponding to broadcast video sources including local origination video sources provided by the CATV system . In the mosaic each of the video windows are identified by channel banners identifying each of the video sources displayed in the video windows in the video mosaic. A selection window may be used to select any of the video windows displayed in the video mosaic. According to the various embodiments of the present invention the selection window is a graphical user interface which may be generated by the client applications in the set top box whenever the tuner is tuned to a video mosaic channel. The selection window may be used to move among the displayed video windows using the remote control device . It should be understood that once a video window is selected by the selection window the client applications instruct the set top box to transmit the current audio feed for the currently shown video stream to the television display device . That is by selecting a video window with the selection window the subscriber not only is able to view the video stream but also hear the audio which is broadcast with the video stream in the CATV system . It should also be understood that the set top box client applications may enable the selection window to tune to a selected video window as if selecting a channel from an electronic program guide. Once a video window has been tuned the set top box generates a full screen display of the corresponding channel.

The television screen display also includes More Channels buttons which are selectable buttons for adding video windows to the mosaic which will not fit on the television screen display . The More Channels buttons may be selected by the remote control device to tune to a selected channel. If the number of More Channels is larger than the space available on the television screen display then scroll buttons may be activated by the set top box client applications to enable the viewing and selection of the additional channels.

Based on the foregoing it should be appreciated that the various embodiments of the invention include methods and systems for generating a personalized video mosaic from multiple video sources in a cable television services system. The methods and systems enable a subscriber to select multiple video sources broadcast from a head end for simultaneous display on a single broadcast channel in the cable television services system.

The above specification examples and data provide a complete description of the manufacture and use of the composition of the invention. Since many embodiments of the invention can be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention the invention resides in the claims hereinafter appended.

