---

title: Grouping and ranking of application permissions
abstract: The present disclosure provides a system and method for a mobile device to run an application that requires one or more permissions. The mobile device may comprise a screen and a processor. The one or more permissions may be displayed graphically on the screen prior to the application being installed by the processor.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08595489&OS=08595489&RS=08595489
owner: Google Inc.
number: 08595489
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121105
---
Certain embodiments of the disclosure relate to computer applications. More specifically certain embodiments of the disclosure relate to a method and system for informing a device user of the permissions that will be granted when a computer application is installed on the device.

Mobile communications have changed the way people communicate and mobile devices have been transformed from a luxury item to an essential part of everyday life. As the number of mobile devices continues to increase significant efforts exist with regard to making such devices more secure and more user friendly. User interfaces exist that allow a user to read permissions for a given application. However current user interfaces may be presented in such a way that the user is unable to comprehend the grant of permissions. Therefore any information about the permissions is ignored.

Further limitations and disadvantages of conventional and traditional approaches will become apparent to one of skill in the art through comparison of such systems with some aspects of the present disclosure as set forth in the remainder of the present application with reference to the drawings.

A method and system is provided for ranking and clustering of application permissions based on potential damage substantially as shown in and or described in connection with at least one of the figures as set forth more completely in the claims. For example an application may request permission to personal information and or device utilities. An operating system can cluster the requested permissions into groups and rank the groups of requested permissions according to an implication of potential damage. A user interface can display a text description of the ranked and clustered permissions. To improve the speed of comprehension the user interface may also display an informative graphic near the text description.

These and other advantages aspects and novel features of the present disclosure as well as details of an illustrated embodiment thereof will be more fully understood from the following description and drawings.

Previous operating systems have relied on software being physically sold in boxes in stores. This model protected users because there was implicit trust in the store not to sell boxes of software that were dangerous or malicious. Modern operating systems have to deal with hundreds of thousands of applications that are available in online stores. Because of this modern operating systems must be much more restrictive of what capabilities an application has access to. If there are too many applications for the store to review itself the decision to trust an application moves from the store on to the user. Additionally each users may have different tolerance levels for how much personal information they would like to expose to an application so ultimately the decision to install an application or not is theirs.

Certain embodiments of the disclosure may be found in a method and system for displaying the permissions requested by an application at the time of installation. Mobile devices such as smartphones and tablets may provide a platform for installing and running these applications. is a diagram of an example mobile device that is able to install and run applications in accordance with an embodiment of the disclosure. Many smartphones and tablets include a touch screen to provide user input and output.

This disclosure provides for ranking and clustering of application permissions based on potential damage substantially as shown in and or described in connection with at least one of the figures as set forth more completely in the claims. For example an application requests permission to personal information and or device utilities. An operating system may cluster the requested permissions into groups. The groups of requested permissions may then be ranked according to an implication of potential damage. A user interface can display a text description of the ranked and clustered permissions. To improve the speed of comprehension the user interface can also display an informative graphic near the associated text description.

It is important that users comprehend what permissions they are granting to an application during installation. These permissions may allow the application to potentially harm the user s privacy and may potentially degrade the ability of the device to function. Permission lists are traditionally organized by areas of specific hardware or software stacks e.g. sensors network vibration as opposed to actual implications of the permissions e.g. things that will degrade the battery life . Additionally permission lists may not differentiate between permissions that could harm the device versus permissions that could harm the user. Permission lists are often jargon filled and technical and read more like documentation for an application programming interface API than an interface that is designed to help users make informed decisions about a particular application. Permissions that are framed in terms of the device as opposed to being framed in terms of the user may be ignored since a user may not be able to quickly determine if an application is potentially dangerous or not.

Consent to permissions may be granted at install time or in real time as the permissions are needed. The advantage of granting permissions at install time is that the user can make a comprehensive decision whether they trust a particular application by viewing everything that the application that the application will want to do in the future. Furthermore the user can potentially understand how various permissions could be used in combination. Granting permissions at install time is also advantageous for developers since the developer can program an application without being worried that it will only have access to a subset of permissions and capabilities.

Android applications are written in the Java programming language. The Android SDK tools compile the code along with any data and resource files into an Android package an archive file with an .apk suffix. All the code in a single APK file is considered to be one application and is the file that Android powered devices use to install the application. An APK file may contain individual files such as 1 an AndroidManifest.xml file which is a Manifest file that describes the name version access rights and referenced library files for the application 2 a classes.dex file which is associated with the process virtual machine Dalvik in Google s Android operating system and 3 a resources.arsc file which contains pre compiled resources. An APK file may also contain directories such as 1 a META INF directory which may contain a certificate of the application and a list of resources 2 a lib directory which may contain the compiled code that is specific to a software layer of a processor 3 a res directory which contains resources not compiled into resources.arsc and 4 assets directory.

The Manifest file identifies any user permissions the application requires such as Internet access or read access to the user s contacts. The Manifest file may also declare the minimum API level required by the application based on which APIs the application uses. The Manifest file may declare hardware and software features used or required by the application such as a camera Bluetooth services or a multi touch screen.

An application declares all its components in the Manifest file which is at the root of the application project directory. Before the Android system starts an application component that requires a permission the existence of that permission in the Manifest file is verified. Activities services and content providers that are included in the source but are not declared in the Manifest file are not visible to the system and consequently can never run.

There are a variety of devices powered by Android and not all of them provide the same features and capabilities. Hardware and software features may or may not exist on a given Android powered device such as a camera a light sensor Bluetooth a certain version of OpenGL or the fidelity of the touchscreen. In order to prevent an application from being installed on devices that lack features needed by the application device and software requirements are declared in the Manifest file. For example if an application requires a camera this requirement should be declared in the manifest file and devices that do not have a camera cannot install the application. However you can also declare that the application uses the camera but does not require it. In that case the application performs a check at runtime to determine if the device has a camera and disable any features that use the camera if one is not available.

The Android system implements the principle of least privilege. That is each application by default has access only to the components that it requires to do its work and no more. This creates a very secure environment in which an application cannot access parts of the system for which it is not given permission. For example an application can request permission to access device data such as the user s contacts SMS messages the mountable storage SD card camera Bluetooth and more. All application permissions must be granted by the user at install time.

An aspect of the Android system design is that any application can start another application s component. For example if you want the user to capture a photo with the device camera there s probably another application that does that and the application can use it instead of developing an Activity to capture a photo yourself. You don t need to incorporate or even link to the code from the camera application. Instead you can simply start the Activity in the camera application that captures a photo. When complete the photo is even returned to the application so you can use it. To the user it seems as if the camera is actually a part of the application.

Because the system runs each application in a separate process with file permissions that restrict access to other applications the application cannot directly activate a component from another application. The Android system however can. So to activate a component in another application you must deliver a message to the system that specifies the intent to start a particular component. The system then activates the component for you.

An Android application is composed of more than just code it utilizes resources that are separate from the source code such as images audio files and anything relating to the visual presentation of the application. For example you should define animations menus styles colors and the layout of activity user interfaces with XML files. Using application resources makes it easy to update various characteristics of the application without modifying code and by providing sets of alternative resources enables you to optimize the application for a variety of device configurations such as different languages and screen sizes .

A permission can be given a relative priority based on how dangerous the permission could potentially be to the user. The permission may also be sorted into one of two groups permissions that can harm the user Privacy and permissions that can only harm the state of the device Device Access . Privacy permissions are placed in the interface before Device Access permissions. Permissions may be evaluated by the worst case scenario of the effects and permission groups can be ranked based on potential damage. The potential damage may relate to a user s privacy. Also the potential damage may relate to a degradation of a current state of the device e.g. a drain on the battery.

Permissions may also be clustered based on the effect of the permission. For instance controlling the flashlight controlling vibration and turning on Wi Fi multicast are permission that may all be clustered together since they affect battery life of the device.

An icon for each cluster may be designed so that users can visually parse the interface at a quick glance without having to do a slow linear scan of all of the text. A user can process considerably more information in less time by doing a quick visual scan of icons displayed. For side loaded applications and market installs users may be required to review the entire list of application permissions prior to hitting an install button. The use of icons may speed this process.

Any OS that provides applications limited access to hardware and personal information should deploy this approach to designing the consent screen. This ranking and clustering of permissions is not limited to mobile operating systems but may also be used on any desktop operating system that uses a model of restricted application permissions.

Permissions related to telephone information and capabilities may be the most potentially harmful rights that an application would request. This cluster may be designated with a telephone icon . Additionally the permissions in this cluster may be displayed at the top of a user interface. Privacy related permissions also include messaging permissions that may be identified with a text balloon icon photographing permissions that may be identified with a camera icon audio recording permissions that may be identified with a microphone icon location permissions that may be identified with a map pin icon social media permissions that may be identified with a group of people icon contact card permissions that may be identified with a person icon bookmarking permissions that may be identified with a clock and star icon calendar permissions that may be identified with a calendar icon voicemail permissions that may be identified with a tape recorder icon storage permissions that may be identified with a USB icon screen lock permissions that may be identified with a padlock icon alarm permissions that may be identified with a ringing clock icon password permissions that may be identified with a key icon and dictionary permissions that may be identified with a page icon .

Accordingly the present disclosure may be realized in hardware software or a combination of hardware and software. The present disclosure may be realized in a centralized fashion in at least one computer system or in a distributed fashion where different elements are spread across several interconnected computer systems. Any kind of computer system or other apparatus adapted for carrying out the methods described herein is suited. A typical combination of hardware and software may be a general purpose computer system with a computer program that when being loaded and executed controls the computer system such that it carries out the methods described herein.

The present disclosure may also be embedded in a computer program product which comprises all the features enabling the implementation of the methods described herein and which when loaded in a computer system is able to carry out these methods. Computer program in the present context means any expression in any language code or notation of a set of instructions intended to cause a system having an information processing capability to perform a particular function either directly or after either or both of the following a conversion to another language code or notation b reproduction in a different material form.

While the present disclosure has been described with reference to certain embodiments it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes may be made and equivalents may be substituted without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. In addition many modifications may be made to adapt a particular situation or material to the teachings of the present disclosure without departing from its scope. Therefore it is intended that the present disclosure not be limited to the particular embodiment disclosed but that the present disclosure will include all embodiments falling within the scope of the appended claims.

