---

title: Ring-shaped transistors providing reduced self-heating
abstract: A ring-shaped transistor includes a set of gates. Each gate of the set is disposed between a corresponding source and a corresponding drain. The set of gates are arranged such that all of the set of gates cannot be aligned with fewer than three imaginary straight lines drawn through the gates, with one of the imaginary straight lines passing only once though each of the set of gates.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08816397&OS=08816397&RS=08816397
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 08816397
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121221
---
Governmental Interest The invention described herein may be manufactured used and licensed by or for the U.S. Government without the payments of royalties thereon.

Embodiments of the present invention generally relate to transistors and in particular to ring shaped transistors providing reduced self heating.

Electronic devices and integrated circuits have performance limits that are frequently set by the maximum allowable current density voltage electric field and channel or junction temperature. Self heating of these devices is undesirable as it reduces performance and lifetime. The channel temperature Tis correlated with the device lifetime through the Arrhenius equation and may be determined through simulations theoretical models or experimentally. Channel temperature directly affects the bandgap electron mobility electron saturation speed pinch off voltage breakdown voltage transconductance saturation current output power and noise performance.

Reducing Ttypically leads to enhanced device performance and reliable sustainable operation. Heating in transistors may lead to memory effects which cause linearity degradation. Channel temperature is directly proportional to power dissipation through the thermal resistance constants. It also depends critically on the device layout. In the case of field effect transistors FETs and high electron mobility transistors HEMTs Tincreases with the thermal resistance constant and depends on the gate width gate length gate pitch and substrate thickness and thermal conductivity. Transistor heating is a primary cause of memory effects which degrade linearity of power amplifiers especially for modulated signals for instance.

Conventional approaches such as increasing gate pitch dimension result in larger device size and performance degradation especially at millimeter wave frequencies. Additionally transistor heating is a cause of memory effects which degrade linearity of power amplifiers especially for modulated signals.

Embodiments of the present invention relate to ring shaped transistor devices providing reduced self heating.

According to one embodiment a ring shaped transistor includes a set of gates each gate being disposed between a corresponding source and a corresponding drain wherein the set of gates are arranged such that all of the set of gates cannot be aligned with fewer than three imaginary straight lines drawn through the gates with one of the imaginary straight lines passing only once though each of the set of gates.

According to another embodiment a method of fabricating a ring shaped transistor includes forming a ring shaped transistor comprising a ring shaped transistor comprising a set of gates each gate being disposed between a corresponding source and a corresponding drain wherein the set of gates are arranged such that all of the set of gates cannot be aligned with fewer than three imaginary straight lines drawn through the gates with one of the imaginary straight lines passing only once though each of the set of gates.

According to embodiments of the present invention a ring shaped layout or structure for a transistor is disclosed in which gates are arranged into a ring like configuration and increasing the separation among them thereby reducing channel temperature. Simulations and experimental verification indicate a significant heat reduction as a result of the new innovative layout leading to improvement in device performance.

Embodiments described herein are primarily directed to FETs. A FET is one of two main classifications of transistors in terms of construction and function the other type of transistor being a bipolar junction transistor BJT . FETs can be implemented in a variety of different ways using semiconductor materials formed on a substrate by typical semiconductor fabrication processes. For example Gallium Nitride GaN high electron mobility transistors HEMTs are one implementation of FETs. When transistors are operated they consume power from a direct current DC source or from an alternating or pulsed current AC source for instance to radio frequency RF output power in many applications. Table 1 below shows the electrical schematic and heat source and sink areas for a FET.

Heating in transistors affects the electrical performance adversely in most cases. As such it is desirable to reduce maximum temperature. Most of the heating in FETs happens in the vicinity close to the gate junction.

The transistor structure may be considered a plurality of highly localized heat sources on a substrate having a thickness t. Here the heat sources represent the gates of the device with a length L a width Wand a gate gate pitch S. The semiconducting region directly below the gate is called the channel. The semiconducting channel may be formed from a semiconductor material such as gallium nitride GaN for instance. Other semiconductor materials may also be used to form the semiconducting channel. Here the thermal conductivities of the semiconductors and substrate are k and k respectively.

The channel temperature may be calculated using a numerical simulator or the closed form expression. For instance in the temperature in each gate may be influenced by a the self heating of that gate and b the cross heating caused by nearby gates s .

Reducing self heating of a gate may be accomplished by increasing the gate length L and decreasing substrate thickness t and power dissipation per mm of gate width P. In a typical device fabrication process however the length Land thickness t cannot be readily changed by the circuit designer. Reducing Pby increasing device power added efficiency is a well recognized goal for designers and it is the focus of numerous research groups. Another option is to reduce cross heating from neighboring gate strips which can be achieved by increasing the gate pitch S. Yet this may come at the expense of larger area leading to i wider drain pads thus a larger drain source capacitance C and ii wider source pads thus a greater source inductance L . Increasing C generally reduces bandwidth gain and makes it more difficult to match the output of the device. Additionally increasing the phase discrepancies between different gate paths reduces output power and gain. These effects generally become more significant at mm wave frequencies. Thus there is a tradeoff between channel temperature and various electrical performance metrics.

An important aspect in the ring shaped transistor layout is the ability to separate the gates by a large spacing to reduce heating . In addition the ring shaped layout may also enable the gates drains and sources to be connected in a way that can preserve the electrical performance and make the path length equal for all gate source drain junctions.

The ring shaped transistor structure is an arrangement of a set of gates such that all of the set of gates cannot be aligned with fewer than three imaginary straight lines drawn through the gates with one of the imaginary straight lines passing only once though each of the set of gates. The imaginary straight lines may be assumed to have a negligible width.

In some embodiments the gates may be aligned so as to be generally parallel in the same direction to one another as shown in However in other embodiments the ring shaped transistor structure may include a non parallel arrangement of the gates such as in a radial configuration as shown in .

The gates of the ring shaped transistor may be formed by conventional techniques such as lithography with gates of the same channel being connected via conductive pathways i.e. gate feeds. The locations of the different gates and thus signal channels may be designed so as to increase the separation among them thereby reducing channel temperature. The dimensions of the gates may typically have lengths from 0.02 2 m width from 20 1000 m and thickness from 0.1 5 m for instance. And the conductive pathways leading to from the gates may be equal to or more than the number of gates.

There are eight 8 gates present in both the ring shaped FET and the conventional FET shown. The number of gates of the ring shaped FET is not limiting and is mere exemplary in the figures for explanation. The layouts shown here however do not show all layers in a finished device. For instance gates of the conventional FET and ring shaped FET are illustrated. In a finished device air bridges electrically connecting the source islands e.g. pads over the gates in the conventional FET and the outer drain pads over the active regions in the gate segments of the ring shaped FET. The circular holes in corners of the transistor and the source regions represent conductive vias which can be filled with metal or other conductors for providing conductive pathways to ground for the sources terminal and RF signal.

As best depicted in the gates of the ring shaped FET are connected by one or more conductive pathways i.e. the gate feed and are arranged in a generally circuitous or serpentine arrangement. The gate feed consists of at least two gate feed patterns or segments which do not form a straight line . Generally the gate feed may have a symmetric pattern. In this way the gates need not have fixed gate gate spacing among sets of gates. Yet the path length may be made substantially equal to all gate source drain junctions. In addition the drains may be connected by one or more conductive pathways i.e. the drain feed and can be arranged in a generally circuitous or serpentine arrangement also.

The different gates of the ring shaped FET can be aligned with no fewer than three parallel imaginary straight lines L L Ldrawn through the gates with one imaginary straight line passing only once though each of the set of gates. Here the three parallel imaginary straight lines L L Lhave been drawn perpendicular to the width Wdirection of the gates which also happens to be aligned with the length Ldirection of the gates here . The width and length directions for gates are shown in .

In contrast to the ring shaped FET as best depicted in the gates of the conventional FET can be aligned with a single parallel imaginary straight line Ldrawn perpendicular to the width Wdirection of all the gates with each gate having the same imaginary straight line Lpassing through it only once. While this arrangement may be advantageous for electrical performance it is quite disadvantageous for thermal performance.

Indeed no one imaginary straight line can be drawn which physically aligns with all the gates of the ring shaped FET in a similar manner as the conventional FET due to the circuitous or serpentine layout of the gates.

In and the imaginary straight lines have been drawn substantially through the mid point in the width direction of each gate. However it should be appreciated that a imaginary straight lines could be drawn aligning with the beginnings of the gates or aligning with ends of the gates in the region where transistor action occurs so long as one imaginary straight line passed only once though each of the set of gates. Indeed various imaginary straight lines might be similarly drawn between beginning and ends of the gates but only one such line can be used for passing through the gate. The imaginary straight lines may be assumed to have a negligible width.

In ring shaped FETs there is typically one gate per signal path. Source islands and drains placements and or configurations will largely be dependent on the configuration of the gates. Signal path 1 controls a first gate and signal path 2 control a second gate . In particular signal path 1 and signal path 2 are different in their course yet both signal path 1 and signal path 2 have roughly equal length.

The signal paths are not a single conductive pathway. Rather they represent the path of an input signal and output signal of the device with respect to a particular gate. An input control signal may be provided to each gate via the gate feed. The control signal modulates charge carriers from the source to the drain corresponding that that gate. The combined signal in the drain and others is then output vie the drain feeds. The output signal may have an amplified gain with respect to the input control signal to the gate. One example embodiment of the control signal input to the gate modulating the charge carrier between the corresponding source and drain is further illustrated in .

Maintaining equal length ensures that signals traveling along different signal paths accumulate equal time delay hence phase delay and add coherently. This is critical for the electrical performance. Other configurations are possible. For example there may be many signal paths in some ring shaped transistor embodiments. Typically the number of channels i.e. signal paths equals the number of gates. In a conventional FET the number of gates varies from 4 20. It is possible but not common to have transistors with fewer gates than 4 or more gates than 20. The ring shaped transistor may be configured to have a similar number of channels to a conventional FET but need not be so.

Here the gate feed and drain feed both include lead portions and center ring portions with the lead portion of the gate feed coming in from the left to the center ring portion of the gate feed and the lead portion of the drain feed going away from the center ring portion of the drain feed toward to right in the drawing. The gate feed and the drain feed are electrically isolated from one another in actuality and may be formed at different depths or planes within the transistor device. While the center ring portion of the drain feed is depicted inside of the center ring portion of gate feed the two elements can be reversed.

The gates form thin radial segments depicted as lines that are connected to and depend from the central ring of the gate feed to provide the greatest separation between the various gates thereby increase spacing between these heat generating elements . Similarly the drain islands are formed radially and connected with the center ring portion of the drain feed. The ring structure for the gate and drain ensure that various channels signals paths from input to output have similar length thereby maintaining optimal or improved electrical performance. The source islands also are similar to maintain symmetry for the various gate source drain junctions and ensure coherent addition. While eight gates are depicted in the drawing it should be appreciated that the number of gates may vary from what is shown there may be fewer or additional gates and their associated sources and drains. The circular holes in source islands represent vias which can be filled with metal for providing conductive pathways to ground through the substrate. As should be appreciated the various gates can be aligned with no fewer than three parallel imaginary straight lines drawn through the gates with one imaginary straight line passing only once though each of the set of gates.

The ring shaped FET may generally include a buffer layer formed on a substrate an active layer formed on the buffer layer and sources gates and drains respectively formed on the active layer. The buffer layer may be epitaxally formed. i.e. an epilayer which enables growing of the active layer on the substrate which may be incompatible materials in terms of crystalline structure. Also the buffer layer helps to prevent defects in substrate from propagating to the active layer. A buffer layer may not be needed for all embodiments though and might be optional for a MESFET for instance. It should also be appreciated that other elements such as a capping layer formed on the active layer in the vicinity underneath of the gate may be present in various embodiments but have not been depicted therein. Other types of transistor structures are possible in other embodiments.

Transistor action takes place in the active layer. It may be epitaxally formed on the buffer layer. In general charge carriers flow from the source to the drain underneath the gate through a depletion layer in the active layer. RF signals input to the gate modulates the depletion zone in the active layer resulted from a voltage applied to the gate and source terminals. The size shape and or depth of the depletion zone vary based on gate to source bias voltage and the applied signal strength amplitude although the depletion zone will tend to gravitate slightly in the direction toward the drain. This drawing is not to scale in actuality the active layer may be much thinner in thickness than the substrate and buffer layer and the buffer layer is thinner than the substrate.

A numerical simulator e.g. ANSYS with nonlinear thermal conductivity was used to calculate the channel temperatures for the two HEMTs which assumed a base plate temperature of 25 C. The temperature in the conventional HEMT reaches 178.2 C. while the ring shaped HEMT reaches 138.1 C. under the same power dissipation. That is equivalent to a 30 drop in thermal resistance which is very significant in terms of reliability.

The device reliability is strongly dependent on channel temperature. It may be determined using the Arrhenius equation as follows 

One concern about using the ring shaped gate transistor configuration is the increase in device area. However if the total area of a circuit such as a power amplifier PA Monolithic Microwave Integrated Circuit MMIC is considered then it becomes apparent that the contribution of Ring HEMT area to the overall area of the circuit increases only slightly.

Several HEMTs were fabricated for evaluation by the inventors. The HEMTs included AlGaN GaN HEMT epitaxial layers fabricated on metal organic chemical vapor deposition MOCVD grown 3 inch semi insulating 6H SiC substrates. The material has an AlN nucleation layer on SiC substrates. The epitaxial layers consist of an un doped GaN channel layer an AlN barrier layer an un doped AlGaN layer and a GaN cap layer in the gate channels between the corresponding source and drain. Device isolations were formed by a mesa etch using reactive ion etching RIE . Ti Al based metal stack and Rapid Thermal Anneal RTA were used for source and drain ohmic contacts. Contact resistances were measured to be less than 0.4 ohm mm. Gate openings were defined by electron beam e beam lithography. Gates were recessed using an inductively coupled plasma ICP etch followed by Pt Au metal deposition. A drain current density of about 1000 mA mm was achieved at 10 V drain voltage and 1 V gate voltage.

The bias current was kept constant at 200 MA 40 of the I. As the plot shows fdrops with drain voltage due to heating as the inventors expected. However the rate of deterioration of fwith bias is greater for the conventional HEMT. Additionally at full bias approximately 30 V the difference of fbetween the conventional HEMT and the ring shaped HEMTs is insignificant. In fact the ring shaped HEMT slightly outperforms the conventional HEMT. The equivalent circuit was extracted to find the internal capacitances.

Table 2 below shows the extracted capacitance values per mm of gate source capacitance C gate drain capacitance C and drain source capacitance C. The increase in capacitances is moderate. The growth of capacitances can probably be reduced through a more careful layout. The Pof all the devices was measured at 10 GHz using a load pull system.

The reduction in heating comes at the expense of a moderate increase in area and capacitances. The results show significant performance enhancements at 10 GHz. Compared to a conventional HEMT the ring shaped HEMT provides a drop in channel temperature from 178 C. to 138 C. accompanied by a 3 dB increase in output power at 30 V bias and 43 fold increase in lifetime. Additionally transistor heating causes memory effects which degrade the linearity. Thus it is expected that the ring shaped HEMT will have better linearity.

While the experiments described herein where primarily directed to AlGaN GaN HEMTs it is believed that other semiconductor materials e.g. Si GaAs SiC etc. with the transistor devices such as HEMTs and FETs should provide similar perform improvement.

Various transistors may be configured to include a ring shaped transistor configuration or layout according to embodiments. In some embodiments the ring shaped transistor may be configured as a FET such as a HEMT a pseudomorphic HEMT pHEMT a metal oxide field effect transistor MOSFET or a metal semiconductor field effect transistor MESFET . For example high voltage e.g. 28 V or more GaAs pHEMT devices may benefit by embodiments of the present invention given that self heating is the main limiting factor for these devices.

The ring shaped transistors may be included in various electronic devices. The device may further be provided with matching circuits at the input and output of the device to form an active circuit such as an amplifier. In some instances the device and circuits passive elements may be fabricated in the same process sequence and on a same chip.

The foregoing description for purpose of explanation has been described with reference to specific embodiments. However the illustrative discussions above are not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible in view of the above teachings. The embodiments were chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the present disclosure and its practical applications to thereby enable others skilled in the art to best utilize the invention and various embodiments with various modifications as may be suited to the particular use contemplated.

Various elements devices modules and circuits are described above in associated with their respective functions. These elements devices modules and circuits are considered means for performing their respective functions as described herein.

While the foregoing is directed to embodiments of the present invention other and further embodiments of the invention may be devised without departing from the basic scope thereof and the scope thereof is determined by the claims that follow.

