---

title: Notification management
abstract: Computer-implemented methods for providing a single notification for display in an application from multiple received notifications are provided. In one aspect, a method includes receiving a first notification for an application and receiving a second notification for the application subsequent to the first notification, and analyzing content of the first notification and content of the second notification. The method also includes determining, based on the analysis, whether the second notification is related to the first notification, and providing, for display, a single notification includes at least a portion of the content of the first notification and at least a portion of the content of the second notification when the second notification is related to the first notification. Systems and machine-readable media are also provided.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09253135&OS=09253135&RS=09253135
owner: Google Inc.
number: 09253135
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120207
---
The present disclosure generally relates to processing data transmitted over a network and more particularly to the use of a computing device to process notification data.

When a person purchases an item or service online or is scheduled to attend an event the person often receives multiple electronic notifications for the item service or event. For instance a person who is invited to a meeting might first receive a notification email requesting attendance at the meeting followed by a second notification email confirming acceptance of the meeting request a third notification email when another user proposes a new time for the meeting a fourth notification email when another user changes the location of the meeting and a fifth notification email when the meeting organizer has canceled the meeting. This results in five notification emails for the same meeting in the person s email inbox which can be burdensome for the person to read and can congest the person s inbox.

According to one embodiment of the present disclosure a computer implemented method for providing a single notification for display in an application from multiple received notifications is provided. The method includes receiving a first notification for an application and receiving a second notification for the application subsequent to the first notification and analyzing content of the first notification and content of the second notification. The method also includes determining based on the analysis whether the second notification is related to the first notification and providing for display a single notification includes at least a portion of the content of the first notification and at least a portion of the content of the second notification when the second notification is related to the first notification.

According to another embodiment of the present disclosure a system for providing a single notification for display in an application from multiple received notifications is provided. The system includes a memory that includes a first notification for an application and a second notification for the application received subsequent to the first notification and a processor. The processor is configured to analyze content of the first notification and content of the second notification and determine based on the analysis whether the second notification is related to the first notification. The processor is also configured to provide for display a single notification includes at least a portion of the content of the first notification and at least a portion of the content of the second notification when the second notification is related to the first notification.

According to one embodiment of the present disclosure a machine readable storage medium includes machine readable instructions for causing a processor to execute a method for providing a single notification for display in an application from multiple received notifications the method includes is provided. The method includes receiving a first electronic message notification for an application and receiving a second electronic message notification for the application subsequent to the first electronic message notification and identifying an item event or service associated with content of the first electronic message notification and an item event or service associated with content of the second electronic message notification. The method also includes determining based on the identifications whether the second electronic message notification is for the same item event or service as the first electronic message notification and providing for display a single notification includes at least a portion of the content of the first electronic message notification and at least a portion of the content of the second electronic message notification when the second electronic message notification is related to the first electronic message notification.

It is understood that other configurations of the subject technology will become readily apparent to those skilled in the art from the following detailed description wherein various configurations of the subject technology are shown and described by way of illustration. As will be realized the subject technology is capable of other and different configurations and its several details are capable of modification in various other respects all without departing from the scope of the subject technology. Accordingly the drawings and detailed description are to be regarded as illustrative in nature and not as restrictive.

In the following detailed description numerous specific details are set forth to provide a full understanding of the present disclosure. It will be apparent however to one ordinarily skilled in the art that the embodiments of the present disclosure may be practiced without some of these specific details. In other instances well known structures and techniques have not been shown in detail so as not to obscure the disclosure.

The disclosed system analyzes the content of received notifications related to an item event or service and then displays a single notification with appropriate updated content from the notifications for that item event or service. The disclosed system is advantageous because it is configured to work with existing notification systems such as existing electronic mail and text messaging formats.

As one example of the disclosed system when a person is invited to a meeting by receiving a first notification requesting attendance at the meeting the first notification for the request to attend the meeting is displayed. When a second notification confirming acceptance of the meeting request is received the first notification is replaced with a single status notification combining the relevant portions of the first and second notifications. The status notification displays that the person has accepted the meeting request along with any relevant information from the first notification. When a third notification is received indicating that another user proposed a new time for the meeting the status notification is updated with the relevant information from the third notification regarding the proposed new time for the meeting. When a fourth notification is received indicating another user proposes to change the location of the meeting the status notification is updated with the relevant information from the fourth notification regarding the changed location for the meeting. Finally when a fifth notification is received indicating the meeting organizer has canceled the meeting the status notification indicates the meeting has been canceled or the status notification is removed completely due to the cancellation of the meeting. During this entire process only one status notification for the meeting is displayed by a message notifier or within a notification region e.g. an inbox instead of multiple notifications. Additionally instead of displaying a combination notification the latest notification for the item event or service can be displayed along with a link to the older notifications if appropriate.

Although many examples provided herein describe a user s information being stored in memory e.g. a user s notifications or being analyzed the user can at any time delete the user information from memory and or opt out of having the user information stored in memory and or analyzed. Additionally the user can at any time adjust appropriate privacy settings to selectively limit the types of user information stored in memory or analyzed or select the memory in which the user information is stored e.g. locally on the user s device as opposed to remotely a server or the type of information that is analyzed. In many examples the user information does not include and or share the specific identification of the user e.g. the user s name unless otherwise specifically provided or directed by the user.

One of the many servers is configured to host a notification source that generates notifications. A notification can be for example electronic mail email a text message a social network message a meeting request or a type of electronic message. When a notification is an electronic message the message body of the email can be in a plain text or a HyperText Markup Language HTML format. The notifications can be for an item e.g. purchased product event e.g. calendar event or service e.g. vehicle repair and can indicate without limitation a calendar event e.g. an invitation to a meeting purchasing event e.g. an order has been placed approval event e.g. 1 or another indication approving a statement or social networking event e.g. a user has received a comment on a posted item from a connected user . For purposes of load balancing multiple servers can host the notification source.

As discussed herein the notification source on a server is configured to generate and transmit notifications over a network to a user via a notification provider e.g. electronic messaging service associated with the user on another server . The network can include for example any one or more of a personal area network PAN a local area network LAN a campus area network CAN a metropolitan area network MAN a wide area network WAN a broadband network BBN the Internet and the like. Further the network can include but is not limited to any one or more of the following network topologies including a bus network a star network a ring network a mesh network a star bus network tree or hierarchical network and the like. The servers can be any device having an appropriate processor memory and communications capability for hosting the notification source and notification provider. The notification provider on the server can provide the notification to a notification interface on the user s client . The clients can be for example desktop computers mobile computers tablet computers e.g. including e book readers mobile devices e.g. a smartphone or PDA set top boxes e.g. for a television video game consoles or any other devices having appropriate processor memory and communications capabilities.

The disclosed system e.g. the notification provider or the notification interface depending on the selected configuration receives an initial notification and any number of subsequent notifications and determines whether the content of the initial notification and subsequent notifications are related to the same subject matter e.g. item event or service . If the content is related the system provides a single notification for display. The single notification can be a generated notification that includes relevant information from each of the received notifications or the single notification can be the last received notification. If the content is not related the system provides each notification for display separately. If a user requests to view any of the received notifications e.g. using input device separately from the single notification the system provides the requested notification to the user. The disclosed system is capable of running on a server as a notification provider e.g. as part of an electronic messaging service or on a client as a notification interface e.g. as part of an electronic messaging client .

The client includes a processor the communications module and a memory that includes a notification interface or application and notifications . The notifications are initially generated by a notification source e.g. that generates notifications for an item event or service in the memory of the generating server . The notifications are stored in memory on the client after being provided to the notification interface of the client over the network via a notification provider e.g. an electronic messaging service in the memory of the intermediate server . The notification interface can be for example a web page in a web browser e.g. a front end user interface for an electronic messaging service or a notification e.g. electronic message or text message client application. The client also includes an input device such as a keyboard or mouse and an output device such as a display.

The processor of the client is configured to execute instructions such as instructions physically coded into the processor instructions received from software in memory e.g. JavaScript associated with the notification interface or a combination of both. For example in certain aspects where the notification interface of the client is responsible for generating single notifications the processor of the client executes instructions from the notification interface to receive an initial first notification and receive a second notification subsequent to the first notification analyze content of the initial notification and content of the subsequent notification and determine based on the analysis whether the subsequent notification is related to the initial notification. Analyzing the content of the initial notification and the content of the subsequent notification can include identifying an item event or service associated with the initial notification and an item event or service associated with the subsequent notification and determining whether the subsequent notification is related to the initial notification can include determining whether the subsequent notification is for the same item event or service as the initial notification. Analyzing the content of the initial notification and the content of the subsequent notification can also include identifying a recipient sender subject or message of the initial notification and a recipient sender subject or message of the subsequent notification. In addition determining whether the subsequent notification is related to the initial notification can include determining whether the subsequent notification is for the same a recipient sender subject and or message.

When the subsequent notification is determined to be related to the initial notification the processor is further configured to provide for display e.g. on output device a single notification. The single notification includes at least a portion of the content of the initial notification e.g. information from the initial notification and at least a portion of the content of the subsequent notification e.g. information from the subsequent notification . For example if the initial notification is an invitation to a calendar event the portion that is included in the single notification can be a link to the initial notification and if the subsequent notification indicates a change in location of the event the portion from the subsequent notification that is included in the single notification can be information on the change of location. The portion of content from the initial or subsequent notification that is included in the single notification can be information from the initial or subsequent notification or can be information derived from the initial or subsequent notification.

In certain aspects the single notification is generated based on the initial notification and the subsequent notification such as where the single notification can be a new notification combining content from the initial notification and content from the subsequent notification. For example if the initial notification is a confirmation that an item order has been placed the portion that is included in the single notification can be the order number and if the subsequent notification indicates the item has been shipped the portion from the subsequent notification that is included in the single notification can be the shipping tracking number.

In certain aspects the single notification is provided by displaying the subsequent notification and removing the initial notification from display. In such cases where a subsequent notification is provided for display as the single notification in place of the initial notification the initial notification or any other received notification can be provided for display e.g. from the notifications in memory in response to a request from a user.

If the subsequent notification includes an indication to delete any previously received related notifications e.g. the initial notification such as if the subsequent notification is an event cancellation notification then the processor can be configured to remove the initial notification and the subsequent notification. Additionally the single notification can be configured in a format specific to the issuing source of the initial notification and the subsequent notification. For example if the initial notification and subsequent notification are issued by ABCsales.com the single notification can be configured based on an application programming interface template or other information from ABCsales.com. For instance the single notification can be configured to identify what type of information to include from the content of the initial notification and subsequent notification and then include the information according to a certain format specific to ABCsales.com.

The processor of the client is configured to similarly analyze the content of additional received subsequent notifications and determine whether the additional subsequent notifications are related to the initial notification. Similar to the configuration of the processor described above when the additional subsequent notifications are related to the initial notification the processor is configured to provide for display an updated single notification. The updated single notification includes at least a portion of the content of the initial notification at least a portion of the content of the additional subsequent notifications and if relevant at least a portion of the content of the first subsequent notification.

Turning to the intermediate server the intermediate server includes a processor the communications module and the memory that includes the notification provider . The processor of the intermediate server is configured to execute instructions such as instructions physically coded into the processor instructions received from software in memory e.g. the notification provider or a combination of both. For example in certain aspects where the notification provider of the intermediate server is responsible for generating single notifications and not the notification interface of the client the processor of the intermediate server executes instructions from the notification provider to provide the single notification similar to the instructions described above from the notification interface of the client . The intermediate server provides the single notification to the notification interface e.g. which in this aspect can be a standard notification client on the client for display e.g. on output device . In such aspects the notifications can be stored in the memory of the intermediate server

An example will now be described using the exemplary process of a client that is a mobile device and notifications for a calendar event that are received as electronic messages in a notification provider that is an electronic message client on the mobile device. The process begins by proceeding from beginning step to step when an initial electronic message notification is received on a user s mobile device inviting the user to a calendar event. are exemplary illustrations and of the notification provider displayed on the mobile device over a course of time . illustrates when the initial electronic message notification invitation or status notification to the calendar event is received. The notification provider accordingly indicates that there is one new electronic message in addition to the older electronic messages .

In step a second electronic message notification is received indicating that an attendee has accepted their invitation to the calendar event. In step content of the initial electronic message notification for the calendar event invitation and content of the second notification for the calendar event acceptance by another attendee are analyzed and in step it is determined based on the analysis that the second electronic message notification is for the same event as the initial notification. The process proceeds to step where a single notification is provided for display as provided in the illustration of . Specifically illustrates that there is still one new electronic message even though there are two new notifications e.g. the initial electronic message notification for the event and the second electronic message notification for the event and has combined them as a single notification that indicates one update e.g. the second notification has been received for the single notification . The single notification includes information on the event invitation for the user as well as information on the acceptance by the other attendee.

Next in step a third notification indicating a location change for the event is received and the process returns to step . In step content of the initial electronic message notification for the calendar event invitation and content of the third notification for the calendar event indicating the location change are analyzed and in step it is determined based on the analysis that the third electronic message notification is for the same event as the initial notification. The process proceeds to step where a single notification is provided for display as provided in the illustration of . Specifically illustrates that there is still one new electronic message even though there are three new notifications e.g. the initial second and third electronic message notifications for the event and has combined them as a single notification that indicates two updates e.g. the second and third notifications have been received for the single notification . The single notification includes information on the event invitation for the user information on the acceptance by the other attendee and information on the location change.

Next in step a fourth notification indicating a time change for the event is received and the process returns to step . In step content of the initial electronic message notification for the calendar event invitation and content of the fourth notification for the calendar event indicating the time change are analyzed and in step it is determined based on the analysis that the fourth electronic message notification is for the same event as the initial notification. The process proceeds to step where a single notification is provided for display as provided in the illustration of . Specifically illustrates that there is still one new electronic message even though there are four new notifications e.g. the initial second third and fourth electronic message notifications for the event and has combined them as a single notification that indicates three updates e.g. the second third and fourth notifications have been received for the single notification . The single notification includes information on the event invitation for the user information on the acceptance by the other attendee information on the time change and information on the location change.

Next in step a fifth notification indicating a cancellation of the event is received and the process returns to step . In step content of the initial electronic message notification for the calendar event invitation and content of the fifth notification for the calendar event cancellation are analyzed and in step it is determined based on the analysis that the fifth electronic message notification is for the same event as the initial notification. The process proceeds to step where the single notification is removed from display as provided in the illustration of . Specifically no new electronic messages and the removal of the single notification of .

Computer system e.g. client and servers and includes a bus or other communication mechanism for communicating information and a processor e.g. processor and coupled with bus for processing information. By way of example the computer system may be implemented with one or more processors . Processor may be a general purpose microprocessor a microcontroller a Digital Signal Processor DSP an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC a Field Programmable Gate Array FPGA a Programmable Logic Device PLD a controller a state machine gated logic discrete hardware components or any other suitable entity that can perform calculations or other manipulations of information.

Computer system can include in addition to hardware code that creates an execution environment for the computer program in question e.g. code that constitutes processor firmware a protocol stack a database management system an operating system or a combination of one or more of them stored in an included memory e.g. memory and such as a Random Access Memory RAM a flash memory a Read Only Memory ROM a Programmable Read Only Memory PROM an Erasable PROM EPROM registers a hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM a DVD or any other suitable storage device coupled to bus for storing information and instructions to be executed by processor . The processor and the memory can be supplemented by or incorporated in special purpose logic circuitry.

The instructions may be stored in the memory and implemented in one or more computer program products i.e. one or more modules of computer program instructions encoded on a computer readable medium for execution by or to control the operation of the computer system and according to any method well known to those of skill in the art including but not limited to computer languages such as data oriented languages e.g. SQL dBase system languages e.g. C Objective C C Assembly architectural languages e.g. Java .NET and application languages e.g. PHP Ruby Perl Python . Instructions may also be implemented in computer languages such as array languages aspect oriented languages assembly languages authoring languages command line interface languages compiled languages concurrent languages curly bracket languages dataflow languages data structured languages declarative languages esoteric languages extension languages fourth generation languages functional languages interactive mode languages interpreted languages iterative languages list based languages little languages logic based languages machine languages macro languages metaprogramming languages multiparadigm languages numerical analysis non English based languages object oriented class based languages object oriented prototype based languages off side rule languages procedural languages reflective languages rule based languages scripting languages stack based languages synchronous languages syntax handling languages visual languages wirth languages embeddable languages and xml based languages. Memory may also be used for storing temporary variable or other intermediate information during execution of instructions to be executed by processor .

A computer program as discussed herein does not necessarily correspond to a file in a file system. A program can be stored in a portion of a file that holds other programs or data e.g. one or more scripts stored in a markup language document in a single file dedicated to the program in question or in multiple coordinated files e.g. files that store one or more modules subprograms or portions of code . A computer program can be deployed to be executed on one computer or on multiple computers that are located at one site or distributed across multiple sites and interconnected by a communication network. The processes and logic flows described in this specification can be performed by one or more programmable processors executing one or more computer programs to perform functions by operating on input data and generating output.

Computer system further includes a data storage device such as a magnetic disk or optical disk coupled to bus for storing information and instructions. Computer system may be coupled via input output module to various devices. The input output module can be any input output module. Exemplary input output modules include data ports such as USB ports. The input output module is configured to connect to a communications module . Exemplary communications modules e.g. communications modules and include networking interface cards such as Ethernet cards and modems. In certain aspects the input output module is configured to connect to a plurality of devices such as an input device e.g. input device and or an output device e.g. output device . Exemplary input devices include a keyboard and a pointing device e.g. a mouse or a trackball by which a user can provide input to the computer system . Other kinds of input devices can be used to provide for interaction with a user as well such as a tactile input device visual input device audio input device or brain computer interface device. For example feedback provided to the user can be any form of sensory feedback e.g. visual feedback auditory feedback or tactile feedback and input from the user can be received in any form including acoustic speech tactile or brain wave input. Exemplary output devices include display devices such as a LED light emitting diode CRT cathode ray tube or LCD liquid crystal display screen for displaying information to the user.

According to one aspect of the present disclosure the client and servers and can be implemented using a computer system in response to processor executing one or more sequences of one or more instructions contained in memory . Such instructions may be read into memory from another machine readable medium such as data storage device . Execution of the sequences of instructions contained in main memory causes processor to perform the process steps described herein. One or more processors in a multi processing arrangement may also be employed to execute the sequences of instructions contained in memory . In alternative aspects hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement various aspects of the present disclosure. Thus aspects of the present disclosure are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software.

Various aspects of the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented in a computing system that includes a back end component e.g. as a data server or that includes a middleware component e.g. an application server or that includes a front end component e.g. a client computer having a graphical user interface or a Web browser through which a user can interact with an implementation of the subject matter described in this specification or any combination of one or more such back end middleware or front end components. The components of the system can be interconnected by any form or medium of digital data communication e.g. a communication network. The communication network e.g. network can include for example any one or more of a personal area network PAN a local area network LAN a campus area network CAN a metropolitan area network MAN a wide area network WAN a broadband network BBN the Internet and the like. Further the communication network can include but is not limited to for example any one or more of the following network topologies including a bus network a star network a ring network a mesh network a star bus network tree or hierarchical network or the like. The communications modules can be for example modems or Ethernet cards.

Computing system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other. Computer system can be for example and without limitation a desktop computer laptop computer or tablet computer. Computer system can also be embedded in another device for example and without limitation a mobile telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a mobile audio player a Global Positioning System GPS receiver a video game console and or a television set top box.

The term machine readable storage medium or computer readable medium as used herein refers to any medium or media that participates in providing instructions or data to processor for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non volatile media include for example optical disks magnetic disks or flash memory such as data storage device . Volatile media include dynamic memory such as memory . Transmission media include coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including the wires that comprise bus . Common forms of machine readable media include for example floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium a CD ROM DVD any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes a RAM a PROM an EPROM a FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge or any other medium from which a computer can read. The machine readable storage medium can be a machine readable storage device a machine readable storage substrate a memory device a composition of matter effecting a machine readable propagated signal or a combination of one or more of them.

While this specification contains many specifics these should not be construed as limitations on the scope of what may be claimed but rather as descriptions of particular implementations of the subject matter. Certain features that are described in this specification in the context of separate embodiments can also be implemented in combination in a single embodiment. Conversely various features that are described in the context of a single embodiment can also be implemented in multiple embodiments separately or in any suitable subcombination. Moreover although features may be described above as acting in certain combinations and even initially claimed as such one or more features from a claimed combination can in some cases be excised from the combination and the claimed combination may be directed to a subcombination or variation of a subcombination.

Similarly while operations are depicted in the drawings in a particular order this should not be understood as requiring that such operations be performed in the particular order shown or in sequential order or that all illustrated operations be performed to achieve desirable results. In certain circumstances multitasking and parallel processing may be advantageous. Moreover the separation of various system components in the aspects described above should not be understood as requiring such separation in all aspects and it should be understood that the described program components and systems can generally be integrated together in a single software product or packaged into multiple software products.

The subject matter of this specification has been described in terms of particular aspects but other aspects can be implemented and are within the scope of the following claims. For example the actions recited in the claims can be performed in a different order and still achieve desirable results. As one example the processes depicted in the accompanying figures do not necessarily require the particular order shown or sequential order to achieve desirable results. In certain implementations multitasking and parallel processing may be advantageous. Other variations are within the scope of the following claims.

