---

title: Systems and methods for substituting references to content
abstract: Techniques for substituting references to content shared within the social networking system. In an embodiment, a first reference to a first version of content is received. A second version of the content is selected based on at least one optimization objective. A second reference to the second version of the content is created for provision to a user of a social networking system. The second reference is provided for the user. The at least one optimization objective includes at least one of a business objective, a technical objective, and a legal objective. The content may include at least one of video and audio.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09503509&OS=09503509&RS=09503509
owner: Facebook, Inc.
number: 09503509
owner_city: Menlo Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121114
---
The present invention relates to the field of social networking. More particularly the present invention provides techniques for substituting links to videos shared within a social networking system.

Internet social networks have become a significant phenomenon. Social networks allow an Internet user to create an account and a user profile often for free and interact with other users of the social network. A social network user can gain access to the profile of another user by requesting to add him or her as a friend. Once approved the friendship typically gives both users access to each other s profiles and the content posted on them. Friends posts may appear as news stories in each other s news feeds and friends can usually comment on each other s news stories. Social network users typically seek to assemble a group of friends or followers with whom they interact. Information on a user s profile is often only accessible to the user s friends.

Social networks are providing users with increasingly sophisticated functionality. Early social networks offered little more than a simple interface for users to communicate and post messages. Now on many social networks users may share numerous different types of content and interact with each other s content in a variety of ways. Content shared on a social network may include digital media such as videos. Users may upload videos to social networks and post links to videos hosted by third party sites. Users may discover new videos and share videos posted on their friends profiles. Because of their collaborative nature social networks have now become a popular means by which many people share videos and other media content.

To allow for realization of optimization objectives of a social networking system embodiments of the invention include systems methods and computer readable media to substitute references to content shared within the social networking system. A first reference to a first version of content is received. A second version of the content is selected based on at least one optimization objective. A second reference to the second version of the content is created for provision to a user of a social networking system.

In an embodiment the content includes at least one of video and audio. In an embodiment the second reference is provided for the user. In an embodiment the at least one optimization objective includes at least one of a business objective a technical objective and a legal objective. In an embodiment the at least one optimization objective includes a quality threshold.

In an embodiment a request to access the content is received from the user. In an embodiment capabilities of a computing device of the user to access at least one of the first version of the content and the second version of the content are determined. In an embodiment the selecting is based on the determining capabilities of the computing device. In an embodiment a location of the user is determined. It is determined that the user has no rights to access the first version of the content in the location.

In an embodiment the first version of the content is provided by a first content sharing system. In an embodiment the first content sharing system is not integrated with a platform of the social networking system. In an embodiment the second version of the content is provided by the social networking system. In an embodiment the second version of the content is provided by a second content sharing system separate from the first content sharing system. In an embodiment the second content sharing system is integrated with a platform of the social networking system.

In an embodiment metadata is associated with the second version of the content for presentation to the user. In an embodiment at least one of the first reference and the second reference includes a URL. In an embodiment it is determined whether to provide an attribution for the second version of the content for presentation to the user. In an embodiment it is determined that the second version of the content satisfies a similarity threshold with the first version of the content.

Many other features and embodiments of the invention will be apparent from the accompanying drawings and from the following detailed description.

The figures depict various embodiments of the present invention for purposes of illustration only wherein the figures use like reference numerals to identify like elements. One skilled in the art will readily recognize from the following discussion that alternative embodiments of the structures and methods illustrated in the figures may be employed without departing from the principles of the invention described herein.

Users may take advantage of the collaborative features and functionality of a social networking system to upload and share digital videos. A user of the social networking system may share a video with other users of the social networking system. The video may be hosted or stored by a content provider. The content provider may be the social networking system a third party content sharing system or video source or any other type of entity that may provide content. A third party content sharing system may be a site that is not controlled by the social networking system.

A user may share a video in a variety of manners. A user may share the video by posting a link to the video on her own wall profile or timeline or on the wall profile or timeline of another user. A user may share a video by posting the video to a page associated with a group of users within the social networking system. A user may share a video by sending a link to the video in a message to another user of the social networking system. A user may select a share option associated with a video to post the video to a third party site. A user may select a share option associated with a video appearing on a third party site that is integrated with a platform operated by the social networking system to share the video on a page within the social networking system. In this regard the social networking system may use iframes to allow third party sites to create applications that are hosted separately from the social networking system but operate within a session of the social networking system and are accessed through a user s profile. A user may select a share option associated with a video which appears on a third party site to which the user authenticates using the credentials of her account on the social networking system to share the video on a page within the social networking system. A video shared by a user may appear in the news feeds of other users such as friends of the user who shared the video. A user may also share a video that has been first posted by one or more of the user s friends. Videos may be embedded within content delivered to a user by the social networking system such that the user may watch the video within a user interface of the social networking system without having to access a user interface of a third party content sharing system or a dedicated video viewing page.

In an embodiment upon receiving the URL the social networking system may communicate with the third party content sharing system and retrieve metadata of the video. In an embodiment the metadata may be retrieved through link scraping i.e. extracting information from a resource associated with the video by for example parsing text embedded within or associated with the resource. As discussed below the metadata may include the title of the video a description of the video the runtime length of the video thumbnail images still frames from the video or any other information pertaining to the video. In an embodiment an option to upload a video may be selected by the user. The user may be prompted to specify a location of a video on his user device select a video to upload upload the video and share the uploaded video. The social networking system may extract metadata from the uploaded video. The metadata may be used to compare two videos and determine whether they include similar content as explained in further detail below. The metadata may also be displayed with the video when it or a related link to the video is shared on a page within the social networking system.

Multiple versions of a video or other types of content may be uploaded to the social networking system or to several third party content sharing systems. The multiple versions may include multiple copies of the same video file. For example a single video file may have been uploaded to a content sharing system multiple times or to multiple content sharing systems. The multiple versions also may include multiple recordings of the same content. For example different video recordings of the same content may have been uploaded to one or more content sharing systems. The versions may include different digitized copies of the same content. As an illustration different recordings may have been made of the same television program. The different recordings may have been digitized and uploaded to a content sharing system. Further the different recordings may have been digitized and uploaded to more than one content sharing system. Multiple versions of a video may include any versions that are identical or nearly identical to one another.

A user may share a video within the social networking system. In some instances it may be desirable for the social networking system to present to potential viewers of the video a different version of the video from the version of the video shared by the user. The social networking system may substitute an alternate version of the video for the version of the video shared by the user. In an embodiment the social networking system may create a reference to the alternate version and provide the reference to the alternate version to the potential viewers instead of a reference to the version that was shared. While the embodiments discussed herein may reference video the embodiments may apply equally to audio audio visual and other types of content.

According to an embodiment of the invention the social networking system may identify an alternate or similar version of a video by applying any suitable conventional techniques for detecting similarities and differences in multimedia content. One such technique involves deriving the discrete cosine transform DCT of still frames within a video file. DCT values may be derived for one or more still frames in a first version of the video and one or more still frames in a second version of the video. The DCT values of the still frames in the first version may be compared with the DCT values of the still frames in the second version. Techniques such as deriving DCT values may be used in conjunction with other similarity detection techniques such as comparing the runtime lengths audio content still frames and thumbnail images of the first version and the second version to determine if the first version and the second version are versions of the same video. Still frames runtime lengths audio content thumbnail images and other information used to identify alternate or similar versions of a video may be included in the video metadata retrieved by the social networking system. The social networking system may identify the alternate version of the video with reference to a selected similarity threshold that denotes a defined degree of similarity between two videos.

The social networking system may determine that the version of the video shared by the user should be substituted with another version of the video based on one or more optimization objectives. The optimization objectives may be based on business technical legal or other considerations as discussed in further detail below. The social networking system may identify an alternate version of the video that conforms to the optimization objectives and substitute the alternate version for the shared version.

According to an embodiment of the invention optimization objectives may include a desire to avoid linking to a particular third party content sharing system. The social networking system may have business objectives that may be not be served by linking to the particular third party content sharing system. For example the social networking system may wish to direct traffic to the social networking system or another third party content sharing system deemed most advantageous for its users. The social networking system may prefer to direct traffic to a third party content sharing system that provides the user with the most relevant forms of advertising or provides the user with advertising from optimal sources. As another example the social networking system may prefer to direct traffic to a third party content sharing system with which the social networking system has a partnership or other business relationship. Providing a link to a third party content sharing system with whom the social networking system has no relationship may for example prevent the social networking system from maximizing opportunities to place advertising or other revenue generating content that may be most relevant to its users. In an embodiment upon receiving a reference to a version of a video provided by a particular third party content sharing system from a user the social networking system may substitute a reference to an alternate version of the video provided by the social networking system or another suitable third party content sharing system.

According to an embodiment of the invention optimization objectives may include a desire to link to particular third party content sharing systems. The social networking system may have business objectives that are served by directing traffic to the particular third party content sharing systems. The business objectives may reflect a desire to optimize revenue generated by the social networking system. The business objectives may reflect a desire to ensure consistency in the source and type of shared videos across all users or a subset of users of the social networking system. For example a first user of the social networking system may share a first version of a video and a second user may share the first version of the video after viewing it. However a third user may view the first version of the video but share a different second version of the video. The viewing and sharing of the video and its different versions by various users may represent a share path of the video. The social networking system may select a particular version of the video to substitute for another version based on the share path of the video. For example the social networking system may decide to present the first version of the video to subsequent users because the majority of users in the share path viewed the first version. As another example the social networking system may decide to present the first version of the video to subsequent users because the first version was the initial version in the share path. As yet another example the social networking system may decide to present the second version of the video to subsequent users because it was the most recent version in the share path. The business objectives may reflect a desire to leverage optimal functionality and features of content sharing systems that most benefit the users of the social networking system and optimize their user experience. For example the social networking system may wish to display videos with a multimedia player that displays time stamps of scenes of the videos. The social networking system accordingly may substitute a version of a video hosted by a content sharing system that provides such a multimedia player for versions of the video hosted by content sharing systems that provide other types of players.

According to an embodiment of the invention optimization objectives may include a desire to link to third party content sharing systems that utilize or integrate with a platform operated by the social networking system. In an embodiment the platform may be implemented as a set of APIs provided by the social networking system that third party content sharing systems may utilize. The platform may be an advertising network a content sharing network a data sharing network or other cooperative arrangement or integration. For example the content sharing system or an associated multimedia player may be integrated with a platform of the social networking system or its multimedia player so that user actions taken with respect to the content sharing system may be tracked and recorded by the social networking system. Tracked and recorded actions of a user may be for example published as stories within news feeds of other users of the social networking system.

The platform of the social networking system may provide pre defined object types that allow content sharing systems to classify actions of users so that the actions may be tracked and maintained by the social networking system. The platform of the social networking system may also allow content sharing systems to define custom object types within parameters specified by the social networking system. For example the content sharing system may utilize pre defined and custom object types to enable users to post comments associated with a video that are published to relevant audiences of both the content sharing system and the social networking system. In an embodiment upon receiving a reference to a version of a video provided by a third party content sharing system that does not utilize the platform the social networking system may substitute a link to an alternate version of the video provided by the social networking system or provided by a third party content sharing system that does utilize the platform of the social networking system. Further the social networking system may present a link to an alternate version of the video when the associated third party content sharing system utilizes certain pre defined or custom object types of the platform that may be preferred by the social networking system.

According to an embodiment of the invention optimization objectives may include ensuring that videos may be viewed on the various devices used to access the social networking system. For example a version of a video shared by a first user may not be viewable on a user device of a second user. The user device of the second user may lack the computing capabilities or technical features necessary to play the version of the video shared by the first user. Or the third party content sharing system that provides the version of the video shared by the first user may lack a video player interface that is compatible with the user device of the second user. As another example the bandwidth of a communications link may render presentation of the video shared by the first user difficult or impossible. In an embodiment when the second user attempts to access the video shared by the first user the social networking system may substitute an alternate version of the video that may be viewed on the user device of the second user.

According to an embodiment of the invention optimization objectives may include a desire to maximize the quality of the content displayed to users of the social networking system. The social networking system may prefer not to display a video that does not meet certain quality standards. A first version of a video shared by a user may be of poor or mediocre quality. For example the first version of the video may be blurry or contain artifacts that impair the viewing experience. In an embodiment when the social networking system receives a reference to the first version of the video the social networking system analyzes the quality of the first version of the video. If the quality falls below a quality threshold e.g. minimum quality threshold the social networking system may identify a second version of the video whose quality meets or exceeds the quality threshold. The quality threshold may be a measure of the number of artifacts in a video the stability of the image in the video the level of image distortion in the video the quality of the audio associated with the video or any other measure of audio or video quality. To provide video of acceptable quality to its users the social networking system may substitute a reference to the second version of the video for the reference to the first version of the video.

According to an embodiment of the invention optimization objectives may include a desire to minimize latency in accessing content. The social networking system may receive a reference to a first version of a video provided by a third party content sharing system that has high latency. For example the social networking system may maintain usage statistics on various content sharing systems and may know in advance which content sharing systems are prone to high latency and which content sharing systems are likely to provide low latency. The social networking system may determine that a content sharing system employs technology that causes high response times for users or streams videos relatively slowly. In an embodiment when the social networking system receives a reference to the first version of the video and determines that the first version of the video is provided by a site with high latency the social networking system may identify a second version of the video that is provided by the social networking system or a third party content sharing system that has low latency. To minimize latency the social networking system may substitute a reference to the second version of the video for the reference to the first version of the video.

According to an embodiment of the invention optimization objectives may include a desire to conform to preferences specified by a user. The social networking system may receive a reference to a first version of a video that does not conform to a preference of the user who provided the reference or a user who seeks to view the video. For example a user who seeks to view the video may have specified a preference that limits the resolution of videos displayed on his device to 480 640. The user may not wish to view videos whose resolution exceeds 480 640. If the resolution of the first version of the video exceeds 480 640 then when the user seeks to view the video the social networking system may identify a second version of the video whose resolution is 480 640 or less. As another example a user may specify a preference to view videos from certain content sharing systems and not others. As yet another example the user may specify a preference to view videos only from content sharing systems that do not embed or display advertising within or adjacent to videos. Accordingly the social networking system may identify and provide versions of the video provided by the preferred content sharing systems. To conform to user preferences the social networking system may substitute a reference to the second version of the video for the reference to the first version of the video.

According to an embodiment of the invention optimization objectives may include ensuring that content in the video may be legally viewed. For example a user may be accessing the video from a region in which a content provider of the video does not have a license to publish it. Access to the video may be restricted to users in regions where the content provider of the shared version of the video has a license to the content in the video. In an embodiment when the user attempts to access the video from a region where the content provider does not have a license to the content in the video the social networking system may substitute an alternate version of the video hosted by a content provider that does have a license to the content in the video in the region of the user. As another example optimization objectives may include ensuring that a content sharing system that is to provide access to a video is permitted to publish the video in general apart from regional restrictions in particular. In this regard the social networking system may provide an alternate version of the video hosted by a content sharing system that is legally entitled to publish the video.

At block the social networking system determines based on the metadata associated with the first video and the metadata associated with the second video that the first video and the second video include sufficiently similar content. In an embodiment the social networking system may determine that the first video and the second video include sufficiently similar content based on techniques for detecting similarities in multimedia content using the metadata associated with the first video and the metadata associated with the second video. As discussed above the techniques may include comparison of DCT values thumbnail images runtime lengths or any other information in the first video and the second video or their metadata. Any suitable video detection technique may be used to determine the similarity of videos. At block the social networking system determines at least one optimization objective. The optimization objective may be a business objective a technical objective a legal objective or other criteria such as the source content sharing system user experience monetary value video quality player features or other considerations as discussed above. At block the social networking system selects a video from among the first video and the second video based on the optimization objective. At block the social networking system embeds a link to the selected video and metadata associated with the selected video in a page. The page may be a profile page a news feed a wall a timeline or any type of page to be provided to a user of the social networking system. In an embodiment the process may be performed in whole or in part by the video substitution module or any other module of the social networking system.

The social networking system may not wish for a user who shares a video or a user who may view the video to know that an alternate version of the video has been substituted for the version of the video that was originally shared. If the video is displayed with an indication of a content provider that differs from the content provider of the version of the video that was shared the user who shared the video may become aware that a substitution has occurred. According to an embodiment of the invention the social networking system may display the video in a manner that omits any indication of the content provider of the video. In an embodiment the social networking system may present the video in a playback interface that does not include any links labels logos or other indications that may attribute the video to a particular content provider.

The user device comprises one or more computing devices that can receive input from a user and transmit and receive data via the network . In one embodiment the user device is a conventional computer system executing for example a Microsoft Windows compatible operating system OS Apple OS X and or a Linux distribution. In another embodiment the user device can be a device having computer functionality such as a smart phone a tablet a personal digital assistant PDA a mobile telephone etc. The user device is configured to communicate via the network . The user device can execute an application for example a browser application that allows a user of the user device to interact with the social networking system . In another embodiment the user device interacts with the social networking system through an application programming interface API provided by the native operating system of the user device such as iOS and ANDROID. The user device is configured to communicate with the external system and the social networking system via the network which may comprise any combination of local area and or wide area networks using wired and or wireless communication systems.

In one embodiment the network uses standard communications technologies and protocols. Thus the network can include links using technologies such as Ethernet 702.11 worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX 3G 4G CDMA GSM LTE digital subscriber line DSL etc. Similarly the networking protocols used on the network can include multiprotocol label switching MPLS transmission control protocol Internet protocol TCP IP User Datagram Protocol UDP hypertext transport protocol HTTP simple mail transfer protocol SMTP file transfer protocol FTP and the like. The data exchanged over the network can be represented using technologies and or formats including hypertext markup language HTML and extensible markup language XML . In addition all or some links can be encrypted using conventional encryption technologies such as secure sockets layer SSL transport layer security TLS and Internet Protocol security IPsec .

In one embodiment the user device may display content from the external system and or from the social networking system by processing a markup language document received from the external system and from the social networking system using a browser application . The markup language document identifies content and one or more instructions describing formatting or presentation of the content. By executing the instructions included in the markup language document the browser application displays the identified content using the format or presentation described by the markup language document . For example the markup language document includes instructions for generating and displaying a web page having multiple frames that include text and or image data retrieved from the external system and the social networking system . In various embodiments the markup language document comprises a data file including extensible markup language XML data extensible hypertext markup language XHTML data or other markup language data. Additionally the markup language document may include JavaScript Object Notation JSON data JSON with padding JSONP and JavaScript data to facilitate data interchange between the external system and the user device . The browser application on the user device may use a JavaScript compiler to decode the markup language document .

The markup language document may also include or link to applications or application frameworks such as FLASH or Unity applications the SilverLight application framework etc.

In one embodiment the user device also includes one or more cookies including data indicating whether a user of the user device is logged into the social networking system which may enable modification of the data communicated from the social networking system to the user device .

The external system includes one or more web servers that include one or more web pages which are communicated to the user device using the network . The external system is separate from the social networking system . For example the external system is associated with a first domain while the social networking system is associated with a separate social networking domain. Web pages included in the external system comprise markup language documents identifying content and including instructions specifying formatting or presentation of the identified content.

The social networking system includes one or more computing devices for a social network including a plurality of users and providing users of the social network with the ability to communicate and interact with other users of the social network. In some instances the social network can be represented by a graph i.e. a data structure including edges and nodes. Other data structures can also be used to represent the social network including but not limited to databases objects classes meta elements files or any other data structure. The social networking system may be administered managed or controlled by an operator. The operator of the social networking system may be a human being an automated application or a series of applications for managing content regulating policies and collecting usage metrics within the social networking system . Any type of operator may be used.

Users may join the social networking system and then add connections to any number of other users of the social networking system to whom they desire to be connected. As used herein the term friend refers to any other user of the social networking system to whom a user has formed a connection association or relationship via the social networking system . For example in an embodiment if users in the social networking system are represented as nodes in the social graph the term friend can refer to an edge formed between and directly connecting two user nodes.

Connections may be added explicitly by a user or may be automatically created by the social networking system based on common characteristics of the users e.g. users who are alumni of the same educational institution . For example a first user specifically selects a particular other user to be a friend. Connections in the social networking system are usually in both directions but need not be so the terms user and friend depend on the frame of reference. Connections between users of the social networking system are usually bilateral two way or mutual but connections may also be unilateral or one way. For example if Bob and Joe are both users of the social networking system and connected to each other Bob and Joe are each other s connections. If on the other hand Bob wishes to connect to Joe to view data communicated to the social networking system by Joe but Joe does not wish to form a mutual connection a unilateral connection may be established. The connection between users may be a direct connection however some embodiments of the social networking system allow the connection to be indirect via one or more levels of connections or degrees of separation.

In addition to establishing and maintaining connections between users and allowing interactions between users the social networking system provides users with the ability to take actions on various types of items supported by the social networking system . These items may include groups or networks i.e. social networks of people entities and concepts to which users of the social networking system may belong events or calendar entries in which a user might be interested computer based applications that a user may use via the social networking system transactions that allow users to buy or sell items via services provided by or through the social networking system and interactions with advertisements that a user may perform on or off the social networking system . These are just a few examples of the items upon which a user may act on the social networking system and many others are possible. A user may interact with anything that is capable of being represented in the social networking system or in the external system separate from the social networking system or coupled to the social networking system via the network .

The social networking system is also capable of linking a variety of entities. For example the social networking system enables users to interact with each other as well as external systems or other entities through an API a web service or other communication channels. The social networking system generates and maintains the social graph comprising a plurality of nodes interconnected by a plurality of edges. Each node in the social graph may represent an entity that can act on another node and or that can be acted on by another node. The social graph may include various types of nodes. Examples of types of nodes include users non person entities content items web pages groups activities messages concepts and any other things that can be represented by an object in the social networking system . An edge between two nodes in the social graph may represent a particular kind of connection or association between the two nodes which may result from node relationships or from an action that was performed by one of the nodes on the other node. In some cases the edges between nodes can be weighted. The weight of an edge can represent an attribute associated with the edge such as a strength of the connection or association between nodes. Different types of edges can be provided with different weights. For example an edge created when one user likes another user may be given one weight while an edge created when a user befriends another user may be given a different weight.

As an example when a first user identifies a second user as a friend an edge in the social graph is generated connecting a node representing the first user and a second node representing the second user. As various nodes relate or interact with each other the social networking system modifies edges connecting the various nodes to reflect the relationships and interactions.

The social networking system also includes user generated content which enhances a user s interactions with the social networking system . User generated content may include anything a user can add upload send or post to the social networking system . For example a user communicates posts to the social networking system from a user device . Posts may include data such as status updates or other textual data location information images such as photos videos links music or other similar data and or media. Content may also be added to the social networking system by a third party. Content items are represented as objects in the social networking system . In this way users of the social networking system are encouraged to communicate with each other by posting text and content items of various types of media through various communication channels. Such communication increases the interaction of users with each other and increases the frequency with which users interact with the social networking system .

The social networking system includes a web server an API request server a user profile store a connection store an action logger an activity log an authorization server and a video substitution module . In an embodiment of the invention the social networking system may include additional fewer or different components for various applications. Other components such as network interfaces security mechanisms load balancers failover servers management and network operations consoles and the like are not shown so as to not obscure the details of the system.

The user profile store maintains information about user accounts including biographic demographic and other types of descriptive information such as work experience educational history hobbies or preferences location and the like that has been declared by users or inferred by the social networking system . This information is stored in the user profile store such that each user is uniquely identified. The social networking system also stores data describing one or more connections between different users in the connection store . The connection information may indicate users who have similar or common work experience group memberships hobbies or educational history. Additionally the social networking system includes user defined connections between different users allowing users to specify their relationships with other users. For example user defined connections allow users to generate relationships with other users that parallel the users real life relationships such as friends co workers partners and so forth. Users may select from predefined types of connections or define their own connection types as needed. Connections with other nodes in the social networking system such as non person entities buckets cluster centers images interests pages external systems concepts and the like are also stored in the connection store .

The social networking system maintains data about objects with which a user may interact. To maintain this data the user profile store and the connection store store instances of the corresponding type of objects maintained by the social networking system . Each object type has information fields that are suitable for storing information appropriate to the type of object. For example the user profile store contains data structures with fields suitable for describing a user s account and information related to a user s account. When a new object of a particular type is created the social networking system initializes a new data structure of the corresponding type assigns a unique object identifier to it and begins to add data to the object as needed. This might occur for example when a user becomes a user of the social networking system the social networking system generates a new instance of a user profile in the user profile store assigns a unique identifier to the user account and begins to populate the fields of the user account with information provided by the user.

The connection store includes data structures suitable for describing a user s connections to other users connections to external systems or connections to other entities. The connection store may also associate a connection type with a user s connections which may be used in conjunction with the user s privacy setting to regulate access to information about the user. In an embodiment of the invention the user profile store and the connection store may be implemented as a federated database.

Data stored in the connection store the user profile store and the activity log enables the social networking system to generate the social graph that uses nodes to identify various objects and edges connecting nodes to identify relationships between different objects. For example if a first user establishes a connection with a second user in the social networking system user accounts of the first user and the second user from the user profile store may act as nodes in the social graph. The connection between the first user and the second user stored by the connection store is an edge between the nodes associated with the first user and the second user. Continuing this example the second user may then send the first user a message within the social networking system . The action of sending the message which may be stored is another edge between the two nodes in the social graph representing the first user and the second user. Additionally the message itself may be identified and included in the social graph as another node connected to the nodes representing the first user and the second user.

In another example a first user may tag a second user in an image that is maintained by the social networking system or alternatively in an image maintained by another system outside of the social networking system . The image may itself be represented as a node in the social networking system . This tagging action may create edges between the first user and the second user as well as create an edge between each of the users and the image which is also a node in the social graph. In yet another example if a user confirms attending an event the user and the event are nodes obtained from the user profile store where the attendance of the event is an edge between the nodes that may be retrieved from the activity log . By generating and maintaining the social graph the social networking system includes data describing many different types of objects and the interactions and connections among those objects providing a rich source of socially relevant information.

The web server links the social networking system to one or more user devices and or one or more external systems via the network . The web server serves web pages as well as other web related content such as Java JavaScript Flash XML and so forth. The web server may include a mail server or other messaging functionality for receiving and routing messages between the social networking system and one or more user devices . The messages can be instant messages queued messages e.g. email text and SMS messages or any other suitable messaging format.

The API request server allows one or more external systems and user devices to call access information from the social networking system by calling one or more API functions. The API request server may also allow external systems to send information to the social networking system by calling APIs. The external system in one embodiment sends an API request to the social networking system via the network and the API request server receives the API request. The API request server processes the request by calling an API associated with the API request to generate an appropriate response which the API request server communicates to the external system via the network . For example responsive to an API request the API request server collects data associated with a user such as the user s connections that have logged into the external system and communicates the collected data to the external system . In another embodiment the user device communicates with the social networking system via APIs in the same manner as external systems .

The action logger is capable of receiving communications from the web server about user actions on and or off the social networking system . The action logger populates the activity log with information about user actions enabling the social networking system to discover various actions taken by its users within the social networking system and outside of the social networking system . Any action that a particular user takes with respect to another node on the social networking system may be associated with each user s account through information maintained in the activity log or in a similar database or other data repository. Examples of actions taken by a user within the social networking system that are identified and stored may include for example adding a connection to another user sending a message to another user reading a message from another user viewing content associated with another user attending an event posted by another user posting an image attempting to post an image or other actions interacting with another user or another object. When a user takes an action within the social networking system the action is recorded in the activity log . In one embodiment the social networking system maintains the activity log as a database of entries. When an action is taken within the social networking system an entry for the action is added to the activity log . The activity log may be referred to as an action log.

Additionally user actions may be associated with concepts and actions that occur within an entity outside of the social networking system such as an external system that is separate from the social networking system . For example the action logger may receive data describing a user s interaction with an external system from the web server . In this example the external system reports a user s interaction according to structured actions and objects in the social graph.

Other examples of actions where a user interacts with an external system include a user expressing an interest in an external system or another entity a user posting a comment to the social networking system that discusses an external system or a web page within the external system a user posting to the social networking system a Uniform Resource Locator URL or other identifier associated with an external system a user attending an event associated with an external system or any other action by a user that is related to an external system . Thus the activity log may include actions describing interactions between a user of the social networking system and an external system that is separate from the social networking system .

The authorization server enforces one or more privacy settings of the users of the social networking system . A privacy setting of a user determines how particular information associated with a user can be shared. The privacy setting comprises the specification of particular information associated with a user and the specification of the entity or entities with whom the information can be shared. Examples of entities with which information can be shared may include other users applications external systems or any entity that can potentially access the information. The information that can be shared by a user comprises user account information such as profile photos phone numbers associated with the user user s connections actions taken by the user such as adding a connection changing user profile information and the like.

The privacy setting specification may be provided at different levels of granularity. For example the privacy setting may identify specific information to be shared with other users the privacy setting identifies a work phone number or a specific set of related information such as personal information including profile photo home phone number and status. Alternatively the privacy setting may apply to all the information associated with the user. The specification of the set of entities that can access particular information can also be specified at various levels of granularity. Various sets of entities with which information can be shared may include for example all friends of the user all friends of friends all applications or all external systems . One embodiment allows the specification of the set of entities to comprise an enumeration of entities. For example the user may provide a list of external systems that are allowed to access certain information. Another embodiment allows the specification to comprise a set of entities along with exceptions that are not allowed to access the information. For example a user may allow all external systems to access the user s work information but specify a list of external systems that are not allowed to access the work information. Certain embodiments call the list of exceptions that are not allowed to access certain information a block list . External systems belonging to a block list specified by a user are blocked from accessing the information specified in the privacy setting. Various combinations of granularity of specification of information and granularity of specification of entities with which information is shared are possible. For example all personal information may be shared with friends whereas all work information may be shared with friends of friends.

The authorization server contains logic to determine if certain information associated with a user can be accessed by a user s friends external systems and or other applications and entities. The external system may need authorization from the authorization server to access the user s more private and sensitive information such as the user s work phone number. Based on the user s privacy settings the authorization server determines if another user the external system an application or another entity is allowed to access information associated with the user including information about actions taken by the user.

According to an embodiment of the invention the social networking system may include the video substitution module . The video substitution module may control the sharing of videos or other content within the social networking system . The video substitution module may receive a reference to a version of a video provided by a user of the social networking system and substitute for the reference another reference to an alternate version of the video. The substitution may be based on the application of optimization objectives of the social networking system in accordance with embodiments described herein. In an embodiment the video substitution module may be implemented as the video substitution module of .

The foregoing processes and features can be implemented by a wide variety of machine and computer system architectures and in a wide variety of network and computing environments. illustrates an example of a computer system that may be used to implement one or more of the embodiments described herein in accordance with an embodiment of the invention. The computer system includes sets of instructions for causing the computer system to perform the processes and features discussed herein. The computer system may be connected e.g. networked to other machines. In a networked deployment the computer system may operate in the capacity of a server machine or a client machine in a client server network environment or as a peer machine in a peer to peer or distributed network environment. In an embodiment of the invention the computer system may be the social networking system the user device and the external system or a component thereof. In an embodiment of the invention the computer system may be one server among many that constitutes all or part of the social networking system .

The computer system includes a processor a cache and one or more executable modules and drivers stored on a computer readable medium directed to the processes and features described herein. Additionally the computer system includes a high performance input output I O bus and a standard I O bus . A host bridge couples processor to high performance I O bus whereas I O bus bridge couples the two buses and to each other. A system memory and one or more network interfaces couple to high performance I O bus . The computer system may further include video memory and a display device coupled to the video memory not shown . Mass storage and I O ports couple to the standard I O bus . The computer system may optionally include a keyboard and pointing device a display device or other input output devices not shown coupled to the standard I O bus . Collectively these elements are intended to represent a broad category of computer hardware systems including but not limited to computer systems based on the x86 compatible processors manufactured by Intel Corporation of Santa Clara Calif. and the x86 compatible processors manufactured by Advanced Micro Devices AMD Inc. of Sunnyvale Calif. as well as any other suitable processor.

An operating system manages and controls the operation of the computer system including the input and output of data to and from software applications not shown . The operating system provides an interface between the software applications being executed on the system and the hardware components of the system. Any suitable operating system may be used such as the LINUX Operating System the Apple Macintosh Operating System available from Apple Computer Inc. of Cupertino Calif. UNIX operating systems Microsoft Windows operating systems BSD operating systems and the like. Other implementations are possible.

The elements of the computer system are described in greater detail below. In particular the network interface provides communication between the computer system and any of a wide range of networks such as an Ethernet e.g. IEEE 802.3 network a backplane etc. The mass storage provides permanent storage for the data and programming instructions to perform the above described processes and features implemented by the respective computing systems identified above whereas the system memory e.g. DRAM provides temporary storage for the data and programming instructions when executed by the processor . The I O ports may be one or more serial and or parallel communication ports that provide communication between additional peripheral devices which may be coupled to the computer system .

The computer system may include a variety of system architectures and various components of the computer system may be rearranged. For example the cache may be on chip with processor . Alternatively the cache and the processor may be packed together as a processor module with processor being referred to as the processor core . Furthermore certain embodiments of the invention may neither require nor include all of the above components. For example peripheral devices coupled to the standard I O bus may couple to the high performance I O bus . In addition in some embodiments only a single bus may exist with the components of the computer system being coupled to the single bus. Furthermore the computer system may include additional components such as additional processors storage devices or memories.

In general the processes and features described herein may be implemented as part of an operating system or a specific application component program object module or series of instructions referred to as programs . For example one or more programs may be used to execute specific processes described herein. The programs typically comprise one or more instructions in various memory and storage devices in the computer system that when read and executed by one or more processors cause the computer system to perform operations to execute the processes and features described herein. The processes and features described herein may be implemented in software firmware hardware e.g. an application specific integrated circuit or any combination thereof.

In one implementation the processes and features described herein are implemented as a series of executable modules run by the computer system individually or collectively in a distributed computing environment. The foregoing modules may be realized by hardware executable modules stored on a computer readable medium or machine readable medium or a combination of both. For example the modules may comprise a plurality or series of instructions to be executed by a processor in a hardware system such as the processor . Initially the series of instructions may be stored on a storage device such as the mass storage . However the series of instructions can be stored on any suitable computer readable storage medium. Furthermore the series of instructions need not be stored locally and could be received from a remote storage device such as a server on a network via the network interface . The instructions are copied from the storage device such as the mass storage into the system memory and then accessed and executed by the processor .

Examples of computer readable media include but are not limited to recordable type media such as volatile and non volatile memory devices solid state memories floppy and other removable disks hard disk drives magnetic media optical disks e.g. Compact Disk Read Only Memory CD ROMS Digital Versatile Disks DVDs other similar non transitory or transitory tangible or non tangible storage medium or any type of medium suitable for storing encoding or carrying a series of instructions for execution by the computer system to perform any one or more of the processes and features described herein.

For purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the description. It will be apparent however to one skilled in the art that embodiments of the disclosure can be practiced without these specific details. In some instances modules structures processes features and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid obscuring the description. In other instances functional block diagrams and flow diagrams are shown to represent data and logic flows. The components of block diagrams and flow diagrams e.g. modules blocks structures devices features etc. may be variously combined separated removed reordered and replaced in a manner other than as expressly described and depicted herein.

Reference in this specification to one embodiment an embodiment other embodiments one series of embodiments or the like means that a particular feature design structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the disclosure. The appearances of for example the phrase in one embodiment or in an embodiment in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment nor are separate or alternative embodiments mutually exclusive of other embodiments. Moreover whether or not there is express reference to an embodiment or the like various features are described which may be variously combined and included in some embodiments but also variously omitted in other embodiments. Similarly various features are described that may be preferences or requirements for some embodiments but not other embodiments.

The language used herein has been principally selected for readability and instructional purposes and it may not have been selected to delineate or circumscribe the inventive subject matter. It is therefore intended that the scope of the invention be limited not by this detailed description but rather by any claims that issue on an application based hereon. Accordingly the disclosure of the embodiments of the invention is intended to be illustrative but not limiting of the scope of the invention which is set forth in the following claims.

