---

title: Proprietor-controlled location-based setting of notification policies
abstract: A property could be covered by a mobile device policy map that defines a plurality of spaces within the property and associates each defined space with a respective notification policy regarding how one or more classes of mobile devices are permitted to provide notifications in response to incoming communications. The mobile device policy map for a property could be developed by the proprietor of the property and could be enforced by a server. A mobile device could report its location to the server, and the server could determine that the location is within or proximate to an area covered by a mobile device policy map. The server could then transmit at least a portion of the mobile device policy map to the mobile device, so that the mobile device can apply the relevant policies based on its location.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08781500&OS=08781500&RS=08781500
owner: Google Inc.
number: 08781500
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120912
---
Mobile devices such as cellphones are often configured to alert a user of incoming voice calls or other incoming communications through the use of audible visual and or tactile notifications. Typically a mobile device provides functionality to allow a user to indicate the manner in which the mobile device provides such notifications. For example the mobile device may provide an option and or setting that allows the user to indicate a volume level at which the mobile device provides audible notifications. In addition the mobile device may allow a user to disable audible notifications altogether so that the mobile device provides only visual notifications such as a pop up message on a display and or tactile notifications such as a vibration . The mobile device may allow the user to indicate other attributes or settings of such notifications based on the environment in which the mobile device is currently operating. For example a user may indicate that audible notifications are to be suppressed in locations where unexpected sounds may be socially unacceptable or prohibited.

Despite the above described customization functionality instances in which a mobile device provides an undesired notification can still occur. This can happen for example when the user is unaware of what behavior is generally appropriate in a given setting or when the user inadvertently fails to appropriately adjust the settings on the user s mobile device.

In a first aspect a method is provided. The method comprises a maintaining by a server policy information that relates to a predefined area b receiving at the server an indication of a location of a mobile device c determining by the server that the location is within or proximate to the predefined area and d transmitting at least a portion of the policy information to the mobile device. The policy information defines a plurality of spaces and associates each defined space with one or more respective policies. The one or more respective policies are selected from the group consisting of a notification policy regarding how one or more classes of mobile devices are permitted to provide notifications in response to incoming communications an origination policy regarding what communications the one or more classes of mobile devices are permitted to originate and an application policy regarding what applications the one or more classes of mobile devices are permitted to use.

In a second aspect a server is provided. The server comprises at least one processor data storage and instructions stored in the data storage. The instructions are executable by the at least one processor to cause the server to perform functions the functions comprising a maintaining policy information that relates to a predefined area b receiving an indication of a location of a mobile device c determining that the location is within or proximate to the predefined area and d transmitting at least a portion of the policy information to the mobile device. The policy information defines a plurality of spaces and associates each defined space with one or more respective policies. The one or more respective policies are selected from the group consisting of a notification policy regarding how one or more classes of mobile devices are permitted to provide notifications in response to incoming communications an origination policy regarding what communications the one or more classes of mobile devices are permitted to originate and an application policy regarding what applications the one or more classes of mobile devices are permitted to use.

In a third aspect a non transitory computer readable medium is provided. The non transitory computer readable medium has stored therein instructions executable by a computing device to cause the computing device to perform functions the functions comprising a maintaining policy information that relates to a predefined area b receiving an indication of a location of a mobile device c determining that the location is within or proximate to the predefined area and d transmitting at least a portion of the policy information to the mobile device. The policy information defines a plurality of spaces and associates each defined space with one or more respective policies. The one or more respective policies are selected from the group consisting of a notification policy regarding how one or more classes of mobile devices are permitted to provide notifications in response to incoming communications an origination policy regarding what communications the one or more classes of mobile devices are permitted to originate and an application policy regarding what applications the one or more classes of mobile devices are permitted to use.

In a fourth aspect a method is provided. The method comprises a receiving by a mobile device policy information that defines at least a first space and associates the first space with at least a first notification policy regarding how the mobile device is permitted to provide notifications in response to incoming communications when operating in the first space b determining by the mobile device a location of the mobile device c comparing by the mobile device the location of the mobile device to at least the first space defined in the policy information and d applying the first notification policy on the mobile device in response to a determination that the location is within the first space.

In a fifth aspect a method is provided. The method comprises a receiving by a mobile device policy information that defines at least a first space and associates the first space with at least a first origination policy regarding what communications the mobile device is permitted to originate when operating in the first space b determining by the mobile device a location of the mobile device c comparing by the mobile device the location of the mobile device to at least the first space defined in the policy information and d applying the first origination policy on the mobile device in response to a determination that the location is within the first space.

In a sixth aspect a method is provided. The method comprises a receiving by a mobile device policy information that defines at least a first space and associates the first space with at least a first application policy regarding what applications the mobile device is permitted to use when operating in the first space b determining by the mobile device a location of the mobile device c comparing by the mobile device the location of the mobile device to at least the first space defined in the policy information and d applying the first application policy on the mobile device in response to a determination that the location is within the first space.

In other aspects a mobile device is provided. The mobile device comprises at least one processor data storage and instructions stored in the data storage and executable by the at least one processor to cause the mobile device to perform functions. The functions can include any of the methods described above for the fourth fifth and six aspects.

In still other aspects a non transitory computer readable medium is provided. The computer readable medium has stored therein instructions executable by at least one processor in a mobile device to cause the mobile device to perform functions. The functions can include any of the methods described above for the fourth fifth and six aspects.

These as well as other aspects advantages and alternatives will become apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art by reading the following detailed description with reference where appropriate to the accompanying drawings. Further it is be understood that the description provided in this summary section and elsewhere in this document is intended to illustrate the claimed subject matter by way of example and not by way of limitation.

Disclosed herein are methods and systems for developing and enforcing policies regarding for example how mobile devices are to provide notifications in response to incoming communications based on a current location or environment. In example implementations a proprietor who owns uses or manages a property can define one or more mobile device policies for defined spaces in or surrounding the property. For example the property could be a building and the defined spaces could be different rooms in the building. The proprietor could be an organization such as a business or other for profit enterprise or a non profit enterprise such as an educational institution. Alternatively the proprietor could be an individual or group of individuals.

A mobile device policy for a given space could include for example one or more of the following 1 a notification policy specifying attributes of acceptable mobile device notifications for mobile devices operating in the given space 2 an origination policy regarding what communications mobile devices are permitted to originate when operating in the given space and 3 an application policy regarding which applications such as camera game or music applications mobile devices are permitted to use when operating in the given space.

A notification policy could specify for example whether audible notifications such as ring tones are permissible and if so at what volume. A notification policy could further specify that audible notifications are not permitted in the given area but that tactile and or visible notifications are permitted.

In another example if the property is a school the notification policies for classrooms and for the library could specify that audible notifications are not permitted whereas the notification policies for the cafeteria hallways and outdoor areas could specify that audible alerts are permitted. For an office building the notification policies for offices conference rooms and other work related areas could specify that audible notifications are not permitted whereas the notifications policies for cafeterias break rooms lounges and other non work related areas could specify that audible notifications are permitted.

In some examples notification policies could make distinctions based on types and or classifications of mobile devices. Such classifications could relate to the type of mobile device and or an identity of a user of the mobile device. For example a school setting could have three sets of notification policies a policy for students a different policy for teachers and a still different policy for certain high priority staff such as maintenance security or supervisory staff . Thus a notification policy for a quiet space such as a classroom or library specifying that audible notifications are not permitted on mobile devices used by students or teachers could make an exception for mobile devices used by high priority staff. In addition notification policies could make distinctions based on the time of day and or day of the week during which a mobile device is being used. For example a notification policy for a work area at a business could specify that audible notifications are not permitted during working hours but are permitted at other times.

Origination policies and application policies can also be defined for different spaces based on the intended use of such spaces. For example in a school classrooms could have origination policies that do not allow mobile devices to originate any communications except for emergency communications whereas libraries and study areas could have origination policies that allow mobile devices to originate text messages but not voice calls and outdoor areas could have origination policies that allow mobile devices to originate any type of communication. The school could also have application policies for classrooms that restrict the use of certain types or all types of applications and application policies for other areas that are less restrictive. Other examples are also possible. In addition origination policies and application policies could define permitted and or prohibited functions based on mobile device classes time of day and or day of the week.

To enforce mobile device policies a proprietor can subscribe to a policy enforcement service that is hosted on one or more local and or remotely located servers that are network accessible by mobile devices operating at or near a property of the proprietor. For example a proprietor of a property could define a mobile device policy map that defines a plurality of spaces in the property and associates each defined space with a respective mobile device policy. Each mobile device policy map could include a notification policy an origination policy and or an application policy similar to those described above. A space could be defined based on for example geographic coordinates the locations of one or more rooms in a building the presence of access points or other signal sources the distances to reference points or could be defined in other ways. In one approach the proprietor could define physical boundaries and or dimensions of the property or of part of the property e.g. a floor plan of a building further boundaries to define different spaces within the property and descriptions of the mobile device policies associated with the various defined spaces. Once the proprietor has defined the mobile device policy boundaries the proprietor can upload the same to a server configured to execute a service that administers and or enforces the mobile device policies in accordance with the mobile device policy boundaries.

A mobile device could be subject to the above described service either automatically upon entry of the mobile device within the physical ambit of the dimensions defined by the proprietor but with the ability to opt out or only once the mobile device has opted in to the service. In some cases a proprietor of a property could require mobile device users to direct his her mobile device to opt in to the service as a condition for using mobile devices within the property.

A mobile device that is subject to a policy enforcement service could be configured to query a policy enforcement server such as the server described above at various times such as every 10 seconds. Such queries could include an indication of the mobile device s current location an identification of the user an identification of the mobile device as well as authentication information. In some implementations the server can receive a query and determine whether the indicated current mobile device location is within an area covered by a mobile device policy map and or whether the indicated location is proximate to within a predetermined distance of an area covered by a mobile device policy map. If the indicated location is within an area that is covered by a mobile device policy map then the server can respond in one of two ways.

In a first approach the server can determine which space in the applicable mobile device policy map corresponds to the indicated mobile device location access the mobile device policy associated with that space and transmit an indication of the mobile device policy to the mobile device. The mobile device could then apply the mobile device policy to its own settings functions apps etc. Thus in a first approach the server can transmit to a mobile device the applicable mobile device policy but not the entire mobile device map. As a result in such situations the mobile device might be unable to determine on its own when it has moved to a different space that is associated with a different mobile device policy. Instead the mobile device could periodically report its current location to the server optionally with a greater frequency than before . In such instances the server can then determine from the reported locations whether the mobile device has moved to a different space that is associated with a different mobile device policy and if so transmit the new mobile device policy to the mobile device.

In a second approach the server can transmit the mobile device policy map or a portion of the mobile device policy map to the mobile device. In the case that the server sends a portion of the mobile device policy map the portion could be based on the mobile device s indicated location. For example the server could determine that the indicated location is within a first space in the mobile device policy map and transmit a portion of the mobile device policy map that includes the first space. The portion could also include one or more adjacent spaces. When the mobile device receives a policy map which could be either the entire mobile device policy map or a portion thereof the mobile device can determine from the policy map which defined space it is in and apply the mobile device policy associated with that space. Further when the mobile device determines that it has moved to a new location the mobile device can determine from the policy map whether it has moved from the first space to a second space in which case the mobile device would apply the mobile device policy associated with the second space or whether it is still located within the first space in which case the mobile device would continue to apply the mobile device policy associated with the first space . If the mobile device determines that it has moved out of the area covered by its policy map then the mobile device could query the server for a new policy map.

If the server determines from the indicated location in the mobile device s query that the mobile device is not currently within an area covered by a mobile device policy but is proximate to within a predetermined distance of such an area then the server could send a response that prepares the mobile device for the possibility that it might soon enter the area. If the first approach is used then the server could instruct the mobile device to report its location more frequently. If the second approach is used then the server could transmit a policy map for the nearby area to the mobile device. The policy map could be the mobile device policy map for the entire area or a portion of the mobile device policy map e.g. the portion that is closest to the mobile device s indicated location . The mobile device can store the policy map and periodically compare its current location to the policy map to determine when it has moved into a defined space that is associated with a mobile device policy.

To apply a mobile device policy a mobile device could disable one or more features. For example if a notification policy specifies that audible notifications are not permitted then the mobile device could automatically mute the mobile device s speaker. If an origination policy specifies that origination of voice calls is not permitted then the user interface functions on the mobile device that are normally used to dial telephone numbers could be disabled. If an application policy specifies that certain types of applications are not permitted then one or more applications on the mobile device could be locked. A mobile device could also activate one or more features in order to apply a mobile device policy. For example if a notification policy specifies that only tactile notifications are permissible the mobile device could automatically set its notification mode to vibrate. As another example a notification policy could specify use of an audible notification mode with a relatively high volume level. This type of notification policy could be appropriate in spaces that are typically noisy. To apply this notification policy the mobile device could automatically set its speaker volume level to the specified high level. Although a mobile device could apply mobile devices policies automatically the mobile device could allow an authorized user to override certain policies e.g. using a password .

As shown in client devices and are respectively a desktop computer a cellular telephone a smartphone and a tablet computer. It is to be understood however that these client devices are merely examples. Other types of client devices could also be able to communicate with mobile device policy system by means of communication network . Further although shows four client devices it is to be understood that any number of client devices could be able to communicate with mobile device policy system by means of communication network .

In an example embodiment network uses packet switching technologies. Thus network could represent the Internet or some form of public or private Internet Protocol IP network. Alternatively or additionally network could use circuit switching technologies. Client devices could communicate with network through the use of wireline connections indicated by solid lines and or wireless connections indicated by dashed lines .

Mobile device policy system could be used for developing mobile device policies and or enforcing mobile device policies. With regard to developing mobile device policies a proprietor of a given property could be able to access mobile device policy system e.g. using a client device such as desktop computer to design a mobile device policy map for that given property. For example mobile device policy system could provide an interactive user interface e.g. a Web based interface that allows the proprietor to identify a property define one or more spaces within the property and associate a mobile device policy to each defined space. The mobile device policy map designed in this way could then be stored by mobile device policy system e.g. in database for subsequent enforcement. Alternatively a proprietor could design a mobile device policy map off line i.e. without using mobile device policy system and then upload the mobile device policy map to mobile device policy system for subsequent enforcement.

Once one or more mobile device policies have been developed for a given property for example as described above the policies can be enforced using mobile device policy system . Mobile devices that could be subject to enforcement could include for example cellular telephones such as device smartphone such as device tablet computers such as device and or other types of mobile communication devices. In some cases mobile device policy system could enforce the mobile device policies of a given property for all such mobile devices that operate in the given property. Alternatively mobile device policy system could enforce mobile device policies for only certain mobile devices that operate in the given property such as only those mobile devices that have opted in.

The process of enforcing a mobile device policy for a given property could involve communications between mobile device policy system and the mobile devices operating in that property. For example a mobile device could periodically report its location to server . When the reported location is covered by a mobile device policy map server could send the mobile device the mobile device policy that is associated with that location according to the mobile device policy map. The mobile device could then apply that mobile device policy. Alternatively server could send the mobile device policy map or a portion thereof to the mobile device and the mobile device could determine which policy to apply by comparing its location to one or more spaces defined in the map.

User interface could include one or more user input devices such as a keyboard a keypad a touch screen a computer mouse a track ball a joystick and or other similar devices now known or later developed. User interface could also include one or more display devices such as one or more cathode ray tubes CRT liquid crystal displays LCD light emitting diodes LEDs displays using digital light processing DLP technology printers light bulbs and or other similar devices now known or later developed. Additionally user interface could be configured to generate audible output s via a speaker speaker jack audio output port audio output device earphones and or other similar devices now known or later developed. In some embodiments user interface could include software circuitry or another form of logic that can transmit data to and or receive data from external user input output devices.

Communication interface could include one or more wireless interfaces and or wireline interfaces that are configurable to communicate via a network such as network shown in . The wireless interfaces if present could include one or more wireless transceivers such as a Bluetooth transceiver a Wifi transceiver configured to operate in accordance with an IEEE 802.11 standard e.g. 802.11b 802.11g 802.11n a WiMAX transceiver configured to operate in accordance with an IEEE 802.16 standard a Long Term Evolution LTE transceiver configured to operate in accordance with a 3rd Generation Partnership Project 3GPP standard and or other types of wireless transceivers configurable to communicate via local area or wide area wireless networks. The wireline interfaces if present could include one or more wireline transceivers such as an Ethernet transceiver a Universal Serial Bus USB transceiver or similar transceiver configured to communicate via a twisted pair wire a coaxial cable a fiber optic link or other physical connection to a wireline device or network.

In some embodiments communication interface could be configured to provide reliable secured and or authenticated communications. For each communication described herein information for ensuring reliable communications e.g. guaranteed message delivery could be provided perhaps as part of a message header and or footer e.g. packet message sequencing information encapsulation header s and or footer s size time information and transmission verification information such as cyclic redundancy check CRC and or parity check values . Communications can be made secure e.g. be encoded or encrypted and or decrypted decoded using one or more cryptographic protocols and or algorithms such as but not limited to the data encryption standard DES the advanced encryption standard AES the Rivest Shamir and Adleman RSA algorithm the Diffie Hellman algorithm and or the Digital Signature Algorithm DSA . Other cryptographic protocols and or algorithms could be used instead of or in addition to those listed herein to secure and then decrypt decode communications.

Processor could include one or more general purpose processors e.g. microprocessors and or one or more special purpose processors e.g. digital signal processors DSPs graphical processing units GPUs floating point processing units FPUs network processors or application specific integrated circuits ASICs . Processor could be configured to execute computer readable program instructions that are contained in data storage and or other instructions to carry out various functions described herein.

Data storage could include one or more non transitory computer readable storage media that can be read or accessed by processor . The one or more computer readable storage media could include volatile and or non volatile storage components such as optical magnetic organic or other memory or disc storage which could be integrated in whole or in part with processor . In some embodiments data storage could be implemented using a single physical device e.g. one optical magnetic organic or other memory or disc storage unit while in other embodiments data storage could be implemented using two or more physical devices.

Data storage could also include program data that can be used by processor to carry out functions described herein. In some embodiments data storage could include or have access to additional data storage components or devices e.g. cluster data storages described below .

Server and database could invoke applications and use application data that are stored at various places. These places could be data centers containing numerous servers and databases. The exact physical location connectivity and configuration of server and database could be unknown and or unimportant to client devices. Accordingly server and database could be referred to as cloud based devices that are housed at various remote locations. One possible advantage of such could based computing is to offload processing and data storage from client devices thereby simplifying the design and requirements of these client devices.

In some embodiments server and database could be a single computing device residing in a single data center. In other embodiments server and database could include multiple computing devices in a data center or even multiple computing devices in multiple data centers where the data centers are located in diverse geographic locations. For example server and database could be in different physical locations.

Thus the functions of server and database could be distributed among one or more server clusters such as server clusters and shown in . Server cluster could include one or more server devices cluster data storage and cluster routers connected by a local cluster network . Similarly server cluster could include one or more server devices cluster data storage and cluster routers connected by a local cluster network . Likewise server cluster could include one or more server devices cluster data storage and cluster routers connected by a local cluster network . Server clusters and could communicate with network via communication links and respectively.

In some embodiments each of the server clusters and could have an equal number of server devices an equal number of cluster data storages and an equal number of cluster routers. In other embodiments however some or all of the server clusters and could have different numbers of server devices different numbers of cluster data storages and or different numbers of cluster routers. The number of server devices cluster data storages and cluster routers in each server cluster could depend on the computing task s and or applications assigned to each server cluster.

In the server cluster for example server devices could be configured to perform various computing tasks of server . In one embodiment these computing tasks could be distributed among one or more of server devices . Server devices and in server clusters and could be configured the same or similarly to server devices in server cluster . On the other hand in some embodiments server devices and each could be configured to perform different functions. For example server devices could be configured to perform one or more functions of server and server devices and server device could be configured to perform other functions. Similarly the functions of database could be localized to a single server cluster or could be distributed among multiple server clusters.

Cluster data storages and of the server clusters and respectively could be data storage arrays that include disk array controllers configured to manage read and write access to groups of hard disk drives. The disk array controllers alone or in conjunction with their respective server devices could also be configured to manage backup or redundant copies of the data stored in cluster data storages to protect against disk drive failures or other types of failures that prevent one or more server devices from accessing one or more cluster data storages.

Similar to the manner in which the functions of server and database could be distributed across server clusters and various active portions and or backup redundant portions of these components could be distributed across cluster data storages and . For example some cluster data storages and could be configured to store backup versions of data stored in other cluster data storages and

Cluster routers and in server clusters and respectively could include networking equipment configured to provide internal and external communications for the server clusters. For example cluster routers in server cluster could include one or more packet switching and or routing devices configured to provide i network communications between server devices and cluster data storage via cluster network and or ii network communications between the server cluster and other devices via communication link to network . Cluster routers and could include network equipment similar to cluster routers and cluster routers and could perform networking functions for server clusters and that cluster routers perform for server cluster

Additionally the configuration of cluster routers and could be based at least in part on the data communication requirements of the server devices and cluster storage arrays the data communications capabilities of the network equipment in the cluster routers and the latency and throughput of the local cluster networks the latency throughput and cost of the wide area network connections and and or other factors that could contribute to the cost speed fault tolerance resiliency efficiency and or other design goals of the system architecture.

In one example client device includes a communication interface a user interface a processor a location determination system and data storage communicatively linked together by a system bus network or other connection mechanism .

Communication interface enables client device to communicate using analog or digital modulation with other devices access networks and or transport networks. Thus communication interface could facilitate circuit switched and or packet switched communication such as IP or other packetized communication. For instance communication interface could include a chipset and antenna arranged for wireless communication with a radio access network or an access point. Alternatively or additionally communication interface could include a wireline interface such as an Ethernet Token Ring or USB port.

In one example communication interface is a wireless interface that supports wireless communication with cellular wireless networks for example using 3G protocols such as CDMA EVDO UMTS and GSM GPRS and or 4G protocols such as WiMAX and LTE . Alternatively or additionally communication interface could support communication with wireless local area networks or personal area networks for example using Wifi Bluetooth or ZigBee. However other forms of physical layer interfaces and other types of standard or proprietary communication protocols could be used over communication interface .

User interface could function to allow client device to interact with a user such as to receive input from a user and to provide output to the user. Thus user interface could include input components such as a keypad keyboard touch sensitive or presence sensitive panel computer mouse trackball joystick microphone still camera and or video camera. User interface could also include one or more output components such as a display screen which for example could be combined with a touch sensitive panel CRT LCD LED a display using DLP technology printer light bulb and or other similar devices now known or later developed. User interface could also be configured to generate audible output via a speaker speaker jack audio output port audio output device earphones and or other similar devices now known or later developed. In addition user interface could be configured to generate tactile output such as a vibration.

Processor could include one or more general purpose processors e.g. microprocessors and or one or more special purpose processors e.g. DSPs GPUs FPUs network processors or ASICs . Data storage could include one or more volatile and or non volatile storage components such as magnetic optical flash or organic storage and could be integrated in whole or in part with processor . Data storage could include removable and or non removable components.

Data storage could store data and program instructions . Data could be used or generated during the execution of program instructions . In addition data could be received by client device or transmitted by client device e.g. through communication interface . Data could also be provisioned in data storage using other means. As one example data could include one or more mobile device policies and or one or more policy maps that define spaces and associate the defined spaces with mobile device policies.

Generally speaking processor could be capable of executing program instructions e.g. compiled or non compiled program logic and or machine code stored in data storage to carry out the various functions described herein. Thus data storage could include a non transitory computer readable medium having stored thereon program instructions that if executed by client device cause client device to carry out any of the methods processes or functions disclosed in this specification and or the accompanying drawings. The execution of program instructions by processor could result in processor using data .

By way of example program instructions could include an operating system e.g. an operating system kernel device driver s and or other modules and one or more application programs e.g. address book email web browsing social networking and or gaming applications installed on client device . Similarly data could include operating system data and application data . Operating system data could be accessible primarily to operating system and application data could be accessible primarily to one or more of application programs . Application data could be arranged in a file system that is visible to or hidden from a user of client device .

Application programs could communicate with operating system through one or more application programming interfaces APIs . These APIs could facilitate for instance application programs reading and or writing application data transmitting or receiving information via communication interface receiving or displaying information on user interface and so on.

In some cases application programs could be referred to as apps for short. Additionally application programs could be downloadable to client device through one or more online application stores or application markets. However application programs could also be installed on client device in other ways such as via a web browser or through a physical interface e.g. a USB port on client device .

Location determination system is configured to determine a location of client device . For example location determination system could be able to determine location by receiving wireless signals from a satellite based position system such as the global position system GPS . Thus location determination system could include a GPS receiver. Alternatively or additionally location determination system could be able to determine location by receiving wireless signals from terrestrial sources such as one or more cellular base stations Wifi access points Bluetooth transmitters or infrared transmitters. Thus location determination system could include a Wifi receiver a Bluetooth receiver an infrared receiver and or some other type of receiver that is configured to receive wireless signals that could be used for location determination. In some cases location determination system could determine location using hybrid techniques that make use of wireless signals from both satellite based and terrestrial sources.

Alternatively or additionally location determination system could be configured to determination the location of client device using inertial navigation techniques. Thus location determination system could include one or more motion sensors such as a gyroscope or accelerometer. In some cases location determination system could be configured to determine location using motion data in combination with wireless data. For example location determination system could determine the location of client device at one point in time based on wireless signals and thereafter track the location of client device based on motion data. Other types of location determination methods are possible as well.

In this example mobile device includes a touch sensitive display . Shown on the display are a number of icons that represent applications that can be invoked by the user for example by touching display . As shown in the icons are for a phone application a text application an email application game applications a music player a camera application and a web browser . It is to be understood that the applications indicated by icons shown in are merely examples of the applications that could be supported by a mobile device. Thus a mobile device could include other or additional applications. In addition such applications could be selected or invoked through other means than a touch sensitive display.

In addition to touch sensitive display mobile device could include other components for receiving input from the user. As shown in mobile device includes a multi function button through which the user could navigate through the user interface shown in display and or invoke other functions. Mobile device also includes a volume control through which the user could control the volume level of a speaker on mobile device .

Phone application could be used to send and receive voice calls. Text application could be used to send and receive text messages. Email application could be used to send and receive email messages. Game applications could be used to play different types of games. The games could include a visual component which could be displayed on display an audio component which could be played through speaker and or a tactile component. Music player could be used to play music for example through speaker or through external earphones. Camera application could be invoked to take still images and or video using mobile device . Web browser could be used to access information or resources on the Internet using for example the HyperText Transfer Protocol HTTP .

As noted above mobile device could be used to originate and to receive various types of communications such as voice calls text messages and email messages. With regard to receiving communications mobile device could be configured to provide a user discernible notification when an incoming communication is received. The user discernible notification could include an audible visual and or tactile component. For example when an incoming voice call is received mobile device could be configured to play a ring tone through speaker at a volume level set by volume control . In addition mobile device could display a pop up notification on display . The pop notification could for example identify the caller. Mobile device could also provide a tactile notification such as a vibration in response to an incoming call. In addition to incoming voice calls mobile device could also generate a user discernible notification which could be audible visual and or tactile when mobile device receives incoming text messages email messages or other incoming communications.

In some cases mobile device could include functionality that allows a user to control how mobile device provides notifications in response to incoming voice calls text messages email messages or other communications. For example volume control could be used to control the volume level at which a ring tone notifications of incoming voice calls are played through speaker . In addition mobile device could include functionality that allows audible notifications to be disabled. Such functionality could further allow a user to select visual and or tactile notifications of incoming voice calls. The notifications of incoming text messages email messages and other communications could be similarly controlled.

However mobile device could apply a notification policy that overrides in whole or in part one or more user preferences. For example if the user has set a particular volume level for voice call notifications mobile device could instead apply a notification policy that provides a different volume level for voice call notifications. The notification policy could provide a higher volume level a lower volume level or could turn off audible notifications for voice calls altogether. User preferences regarding notifications for incoming text messages email messages or other communication could also be overridden by notification policies.

As noted above phone application text application and email application could be used to originate various types of communications. However mobile device could apply an origination policy that restricts the usage of such applications to originate communications. For example an origination policy could prevent phone application from being used to originate voice calls but could still allow text messages to be sent using text application and email messages to be sent using email application . Alternatively an origination policy could prevent all types of communications from being originated from mobile device . Other origination policies are also possible.

Mobile device could also apply application policies that restrict the usage of other types of applications such as games music player camera application and web browser . For example an application policy could prevent games and music player from being used but could allow the usage of other applications. Other application policies are also possible.

As noted above a proprietor who owns manages or uses a property could create a mobile device policy map for the property. The mobile device policy map could define one or more spaces within the property and associate the defined spaces with respective mobile device policies. illustrates an example property in which six spaces are defined in a corresponding mobile device policy map. In this example property is a school property that includes a building and a grounds area . The grounds area is defined as one space Space 1 . The other five defined spaces are in building . In particular building has two entrances and which open into a hallway which is defined as Space 2. The hallway provides access to a number of classrooms which are collectively defined as Space 3. In addition the hallway provides access to a gym and locker rooms which are defined as Space 4 a cafeteria which is defined as Space 5 and a library which is defined as Space 6.

It is to be understood that property shown in is only one example of a property that could be associated with a mobile device policy map. In addition to educational facilities mobile device policy maps could be associated with residential properties commercial properties non commercial properties governmental properties or properties of any other type. Further a mobile device policy map could cover indoor spaces such as a building part of a building or multiple buildings outdoor spaces such as grounds areas campus areas sporting venues etc. or a combination of indoor and outdoor spaces.

Alternatively a space could be defined in terms of the wireless signals that are receivable in that space. The wireless signals could be from communication systems that are used in that space such as Wifi access points or Bluetooth transmitters. However the wireless signals could also be beacon signals that are used to identify the locations to mobile devices. Thus Space 6 could be defined based on the wireless signals that are present in the library and Space 3 could be defined based on the wireless signals that are present in the classrooms instead of or in addition to their physical boundaries.

In some cases spaces could be defined relative to landmarks or other reference points. For example entrances and in building could be reference points that are identifiable by wireless beacons. The spaces inside the building Spaces 2 through 6 could then be defined based on their locations relative to entrances and . Spaces in a mobile device policy map could be defined in still other ways as well.

As noted above each of Spaces 1 through 6 is associated with a notification policy in mobile device policy map . The notification policy specifies how two classes of mobile devices Class A and Class B are permitted to provide notifications in response to incoming communications. In this example the Class A mobile devices are mobile devices that are used by teachers or other staff of school property whereas the Class B mobile devices are mobile devices used by students.

It is to be understood that these classes are merely representative examples as other mobile device classes could be defined. As one example the mobile devices of visitors could be defined as an additional class with its own set of notification policies. Alternatively the mobile devices of visitors could be considered to be in either Class A or Class B or could be exempt from the mobile device policies altogether. As another example the mobile devices used by certain staff such as maintenance staff or security staff could be placed in a special classification which could be subject to yet another set of notification policies or could be entirely exempt from the notification policies in mobile device policy map . Still other mobile device classifications could be defined.

For each space defined in mobile device policy map the notification policy specifies whether audible tactile and visual notifications are permitted as indicated by a YES or not permitted as indicated by a NO for Class A and Class B mobile devices. Further the notification policy could specify one or more qualifications regarding whether a certain type of notification is permitted or not permitted. For example a notification policy that permits audible notifications could include a qualification that the volume level is required to be below a certain level. A notification policy could also include qualifications regarding when the policy applies i.e. the notification policy could depend on the time of day and or the day of the week . Other qualifications are also possible.

The notification policies for the spaces defined in mobile device policy map could be set based on considerations of how the spaces are intended to be used and or the expected noise levels in the spaces. Thus the notification policy for the grounds area Space 1 specifies that audible tactile and visual notifications are all permitted for Class A and Class B mobile devices. Similarly the notification policy for the hallway Space 2 specifies that audible tactile and visual notifications are all permitted for Class A and Class B mobile devices but with the qualification that audible notifications must be at a low volume level e.g. a volume level that does not exceed a defined level .

However the notification policy for the classrooms Space 3 is much more restrictive. For Class A mobile devices the policy specifies that tactile and visual notifications are permitted but audible notifications are not. For Class B mobile devices the policy specifies that audible tactile and visual notifications are all impermissible e.g. so that students will not be distracted while in class .

The notification policy for the gym locker room area Space 4 is somewhat less restrictive allowing tactile and visual notifications but not audible indications for both Class A and Class B mobile devices.

The notification policy for the cafeteria Space 5 specifies that audible tactile and visual notifications are all permitted for Class A and Class B mobile devices. In addition the policy specifies that audible indications for Class A mobile devices are to be at a high volume above a defined level e.g. based on the high noise level that is typical in the cafeteria.

Finally the notification policy for the library Space 6 allows for only quiet notifications. Thus the policy specifies that tactile and visual notifications are permitted but audible notifications are not for both Class A and Class B mobile devices.

It is to be understood that the set of notification policies in mobile device policy map is merely one example of how notification policies could be defined for one particular type of property. The notification policies for the spaces in property could be defined differently than what is shown in . In addition the notification policies could be defined for a greater or fewer number of mobile device classes and or a greater or fewer number of notification types. It is also to be understood that while the notification policies in mobile device policy map treat notifications for incoming voice calls text messages and email messages in the same way different notifications policies could be defined for different types of incoming communications.

In addition to notification policies mobile device policy map includes an origination policy and an application policy for each of Spaces 1 through 6. In this example the origination policy specifies whether origination of voice calls or text messages is permitted and the application policy specifies whether use of music applications such as music player game applications such as games or camera applications such as camera application is permitted. In other examples an origination policy could cover other types of messages and an application policy could cover other types of applications. Further an origination or application policy could include qualifications regarding what is or is not permitted. As one example an origination policy that specifies that voice calls are not permitted might still allow the mobile device to make certain types of voice calls such as emergency calls. As another example an application policy could permit use of a music player application on a mobile device but only if external earphones are used i.e. the mobile device s integrated speaker could be disabled . In yet another example an application policy could allow a camera application to be used but only if a flash device is not used. Other qualifications are possible as well.

As with the notification policies the origination policy and application policy for a given space could be set based on the intended use of the space and or based on the expected noise level in that space. Thus in the grounds area Space 1 the origination policy specifies that origination of both voice calls and text messages is permitted for Class A and Class B mobile devices and the application policy specifies that use of music game and camera applications are permitted for Class A and Class B mobile devices.

The origination policy for the hallway Space 2 is similar except that the Class B mobile devices i.e. students are not permitted to originate voice calls. The application policy for the hallway however is more restrictive. The application policy specifies that camera applications are permitted but music and game applications are not permitted for both Class A and Class B mobile devices.

Even more restrictive are the origination policy and application policy for the classrooms Space 3 . The origination policy specifies that the origination of voice calls and text messages is not permitted for Class A and Class B mobile devices. The application policy specifies that music and game applications are not permitted for Class A and Class B mobile devices. The application policy further specifies that camera applications are permitted for Class A mobile devices i.e. teachers but not Class B mobile devices i.e. students .

In the gym locker room areas Space 4 the origination policy specifies that text messaging is permitted for both Class A and Class B mobile devices. However voice calls are permitted for Class A mobile devices but not Class B mobile devices. The application policy for Space 4 specifies that music game and camera applications are not permitted for both Class A and Class B mobile devices.

In the cafeteria Space 5 the origination policy and application policy are not restrictive. The origination policy specifies that both voice calls and text messaging are permitted for Class A and Class B mobile devices. The application policy specifies that music game and camera applications are all permitted for both Class A and Class B mobile devices.

The origination policy and application policy for the library Space 6 are intended to maintain a quiet atmosphere there. Thus the origination policy specifies that text messages are permitted but not voice calls for both Class A and Class B mobile devices. The application policy specifies that camera applications are permitted but not music or game applications for both Class A and Class B mobile devices.

It is to be understood that the origination policies and application policies shown in are merely exemplary. The mobile delivery policy map for property could include other or different origination policies and or application policies. In addition although mobile device policy map includes three types of policies i.e. notification origination and application policies it is to be understood that a mobile device policy map could include a greater or fewer number of policy types. For example a mobile device policy map might include notification policies but not origination or application policies. Other arrangements are also possible.

As described in more detail below when a mobile device enters or comes near to property the mobile device can receive a policy map that covers one or more spaces in property . The policy map could correspond to mobile device policy map in its entirety. Alternatively the policy map could include only a portion of mobile device policy map . For example illustrates a policy map that includes the definitions of Spaces 1 through 6 and the notification origination and application policies for those spaces that apply to Class B mobile devices as set forth in mobile device policy map . Thus policy map could be sent to a Class B mobile device when the mobile device enters or comes near to property .

The mobile device could then apply the policies in policy map based on its location. Thus when the mobile device determines that it is in the grounds area Space 1 e.g. by using GPS the mobile device applies the notification origination and application policies that are associated Space 1. When the mobile device determines that it is in the hallway Space 2 e.g. by detecting a wireless beacon at entrance the mobile device applies the notification origination and application policies that are associated Space 2. When the mobile device determines that it is in a classroom Space 3 e.g. by detecting a wireless signal associated with the classroom or by referring to movement data that indicates where the device has moved since detecting the wireless beacon at entrance the mobile device applies the notification origination and application policies that are associated Space 3. In this way the mobile device can automatically apply the policies that have been defined for the different spaces in property .

Although property map in includes the policies for all of the spaces in property it is to be understood that a mobile device could receive a policy map that covers only some of the spaces. For example when a mobile device enters or comes near to grounds area the mobile device could receive a policy map that covers only Space 1. However when the mobile device reports a location that is inside of building or reports a location that is outside of building but near entrance or the mobile device could receive a policy map that covers one or more spaces inside of building e.g. one or more of Spaces 2 through 6 . Other scenarios are possible as well.

In method a mobile device e.g. mobile device determines its location as indicated by block . The mobile device could determine its location using for example GPS wireless signals from terrestrial sources movement data or by some other means. For example the mobile device could include a location determination system as shown in and described above. Further the mobile device could perform this step either automatically e.g. the mobile device might be configured to determine its location every 10 seconds or in response to user input or other triggering event.

After determining its location the mobile device transmits a message that includes an indication of its determined location as indicated by block . The location indication could be in the form of latitude longitude coordinates a street address or in some other format. The message could also include other information such as a timestamp information identifying the mobile device such as the device s mobile directory number MDN and or information identifying the user of the mobile device such as the user s name or network access identifier NAI and authentication information.

The message transmitted by the mobile device could be a query that seeks to determine whether the indicated location is associated with a mobile device policy. Alternatively the message could be simply a report of the mobile device s location. For example the mobile device could be configured to report its location periodically e.g. every 10 seconds .

A server e.g. server receives the indicated location as indicated by block . In this example the server is involved in the enforcement of mobile device policies for multiple properties with each property having an associated mobile device policy map.

The server determines whether the indicated location is covered by a mobile device policy map as indicated by block . To do this the server could determine whether the indicated location is within the boundaries of any of the properties for which the server is tasked with mobile device policy enforcement. If the indicated location is within the boundaries of such a property then the server refers to that property s associated mobile device policy map.

The server could also determine whether the mobile device is subject to mobile device policy enforcement as indicated by block . This could involve a determination of whether the mobile device has opted into the mobile device policy enforcement service and or whether the mobile device is within a class of mobile devices for which the relevant mobile device policy map has policies. To make this determination the server could take into account the identity of the mobile device and or the identity of the mobile device s user for example based on information contained in the message of block .

In this example it is assumed that the mobile device s indicated location is within a property that is associated with a mobile device policy map and that the mobile device is subject to mobile device policy enforcement. Thus the server determines that the indicated location is associated with a mobile device policy as indicated by block . For example the server could determine that the mobile device s indicated location corresponds to a particular space that is defined in the relevant mobile device policy map and then refer to a mobile device policy that is associated with that particular space possibly taking into account the mobile device s classification as well .

The server then transmits the mobile device policy to the mobile device as indicated by block . The transmission could also include instructions to the mobile device that facilitate the enforcement of the mobile device policies in the mobile device policy map. For example the server could instruct the mobile device to report its location more frequently or to report its location when it has moved by a certain amount.

The mobile device receives and applies the mobile device policy as indicated by block . Thus if the mobile device policy includes a notification policy regarding permissible notifications to incoming communications the mobile device could override any current user settings or preferences and provide only those notifications that are permissible under the policy. Further if the mobile device policy includes an origination policy and or application policy the mobile device could restrict usage of communication applications or other applications so as to conform to the mobile device policy.

The mobile device could continue to apply the mobile device policy until it receives an indication from the server that the mobile device policy no longer applies or that a different mobile device policy applies. The mobile device could receive such an indication in response to reporting an updated location. In this way a mobile device could determine whether its current location is associated with a mobile device policy by reporting its current location to a server that is involved in mobile device policy enforcement.

For example with reference to a user carrying a mobile device might enter grounds area Space 1 of property . The mobile device could report a location that is within Space 1 and receive a mobile device policy that is associated with that space e.g. in accordance with mobile device policy map shown in . The mobile device could continue moving within grounds area and report its location periodically. At some point the mobile device might be carried into building through entrance . The mobile device could report a location that is within Space 2 the hallway and receive a mobile device policy that is associated that space. Subsequently the mobile device might be carried into the classrooms Space 3 the gym or locker room Space 4 the cafeteria Space 5 or the library Space 6 in which case the mobile device could report a location that corresponds to that space and receive the associated mobile device policy.

Method relates to functions that could be performed by a server e.g. server as part of a mobile device policy enforcement process whereas method relates to functions that could be performed by a mobile device e.g. mobile device as part of the mobile device policy enforcement process.

As part of method policy information that relates to a predefined area is maintained by a server as indicated by block . The policy information defines a plurality of spaces in the predefined area and associates each defined space with a respective notification policy regarding how one or more classes of mobile devices are permitted to provide notifications in response to incoming communications. The policy information maintained by the server could be in the form of or include a mobile device policy map such as map shown in .

The policy map information could be defined by the proprietor of the property that is covered by the mobile device policy map. The proprietor could be any person or entity that owns uses or manages the property. The property could include one or more indoor spaces and or one or more outdoor spaces. Thus the property could include a building and one or more of the spaces defined by the policy information could correspond to one or more of the rooms in the building.

Method includes receiving at the server an indication of a location of mobile device as indicated by block . The indicated location could be part of a message transmitted by the mobile device as described above for . Thus in addition to receiving the mobile device s location the server could also receive other information included in the mobile device s message such as information identifying the mobile device and or information identifying the user of the mobile device.

Method further involves determining by the server that the location is within or proximate to e.g. within a predefined distance of the predefined area as indicated by block .

Method further involves transmitting at least a portion of the policy information to the mobile device as indicated by block . In some examples the server could determine that the mobile device has opted in to a service associated with the mobile device policy map or is otherwise subject to mobile device policy enforcement before transmitting the policy map.

The portion that is transmitted to the mobile device could be determined based on the policy information in various ways. In one example the one or more classes of mobile devices that are the subject of the policy information could include a first class of mobile devices that are subject to a first set of notification policies and a second class of mobile devices that are subject to a second set of notification policies. In that case the server could determine that the mobile device is in the first class of mobile devices and include the first set of notification policies but not the second set of notification policies. For example policy map in is a portion of mobile device policy map that includes only those policies of mobile device policy map that apply to Class B mobile devices.

It is to be understood however that the portion transmitted to the mobile device does not necessarily include all of the spaces that are defined in the policy information. Instead the transmitted portion might include only one or more spaces that are closest to the mobile device s indicated location.

For example when the mobile device s indicated location is within or proximate to e.g. within a predefined distance of a first space that is defined by the policy information the portion that is transmitted to the mobile device could include a definition of the first pace and a first notification policy regarding how the mobile device is to provide notifications in response to incoming communications when operating with the first space. The first notification policy could specify that audible notifications are permissible in response to incoming communications and could specify a maximum volume level for audible notifications. Alternatively the first notification policy could specify that audible notifications are not permissible in response to incoming communications but specify that tactile notifications and or visible notifications are permissible. The first notification policy could include other specifications regarding permissible or impermissible notifications as well.

In some examples the transmitted portion could further comprise a first origination policy regarding what communications the mobile device is permitted to originate when operating within the first space. The first origination policy could specify that voice calls are or are not permissible. The first origination policy could specify that text message is or is not permissible. The first origination policy could include other specifications regarding permissible or impermissible originations as well.

In some examples the transmitted portion could further comprise a first application policy regarding what applications can be used when the mobile device is operating within the first space. Examples of such application policies are described above for .

The portion of the policy information that is transmitted to the mobile device could also comprise a definition of a second space which could be adjacent to the first space and a second notification policy second origination policy and or second application policy for the second space. The one or more policies associated with the second space could be either the same as or different from the corresponding policies associated with the first space.

On the other hand if the portion transmitted to the mobile device does not cover the second space the server could subsequently transmit to the mobile device an additional portion of the policy information that does cover the second space. For example the server could receive an indication of a new location of the mobile device wherein the new location is within or proximate to the second space as defined in the policy information . In response the server could transmit an additional portion of the policy information to the mobile device wherein the additional portion comprises a definition of the second space and a second notification policy second origination policy and or second application policy associated with the second space.

Method shown in relates to functions that are performed by a mobile device for example in conjunction with method shown in or in conjunction with a different method.

Method involves receiving at a mobile device policy information that defines at least a first space and associates the first space with at least a first notification policy regarding how the mobile device is permitted to provide notifications in response to incoming communications when operating within the first space as indicated by block . In some examples the policy information could also associate the first space with a first origination policy regarding what communications the mobile device is permitted to originate when operating within the first space e.g. as described below with reference to . In some examples the policy information could also associate the first space with a first application policy regarding what applications the mobile device is permitted to use when operating within the first space e.g. as described below with reference to .

The policy information could further define a second space which could be adjacent to the first space and associate the second space with a second notification policy regarding how the mobile device is permitted to provide notifications in response to incoming communications when operating within the first space. The policy information could also associate the second space with a second origination policy regarding what communications the mobile device is permitted to originate when operating in the second space and or a second application policy regarding what applications the mobile device is permitted to use when operating in the second space. In general the policy information could define multiple spaces and associate each defined space with a respective notification policy origination policy and or application policy. Policy map in is an example of policy information that could be received at a mobile device.

The policy information could be received by the mobile device as a result of a process initiated by the mobile device transmitting an indication of its location for example as described above for . Alternatively the policy information could be received by the mobile device as a result of other actions. For example the mobile device could be pre loaded with policy information for one or more properties where the mobile device might operate. Thus if the user of the mobile device is a student the mobile device could be pre loaded with policy information for the student s school.

At some point the mobile device determines its location as indicated by block . The mobile device then compares its determined location to at least the first space defined in the policy information as indicated by block . If the mobile device determines that the location is within the first space then the mobile device applies the first notification policy as indicated by block . In examples in which the policy information also includes a first origination policy for the first space the mobile device could also apply the first origination policy. In examples in which the policy information also includes a first application policy for the first space the mobile device could also apply the first application policy.

Method shown in relates to functions that are performed by a mobile device for an example in which the policy information associates the first space with a first origination policy. At block the mobile devices receives policy information that defines at least a first space and associates the first space with at least a first origination policy regarding what communications the mobile device is permitted to originate when operating within the first space. The policy information could also include a first notification policy and or a first application policy for the first space. In addition the policy information could also include notification origination and or application policies for one or more additional spaces. At block the mobile device determines its location. At block the mobile device compares its location to at least the first space defined in the policy information. At block in response to a determination the location is within the first space the mobile device applies the first origination policy. The mobile device could also apply a first notification policy and or first application policy if defined in the policy information for the first space.

Method shown in relates to functions that are performed by a mobile device for an example in which the policy information associates the first space with a first application policy. At block the mobile devices receives policy information that defines at least a first space and associates the first space with at least a first application policy regarding what applications the mobile device is permitted to use when operating within the first space. The policy information could also include a first notification policy and or a first origination policy for the first space. In addition the policy information could also include notification origination and or application policies for one or more additional spaces. At block the mobile device determines its location. At block the mobile device compares its location to at least the first space defined in the policy information. At block in response to a determination the location is within the first space the mobile device applies the first application policy. The mobile device could also apply a first notification policy and or first origination policy if defined in the policy information for the first space.

The mobile device could perform the functions of determining its location comparing its location to at least the first space and applying a first notification policy first origination policy and or first application policy in response to a determination that its location is within the first space e.g. blocks through in repetitively in order to apply different policies in different locations. For example the mobile device could at some point determine that it is at a new location and compare that new location to the first space defined in the policy map. If the mobile device determines that the new location is within the first space the mobile device could continue to apply the one or more policies associated with the first space e.g. first notification policy first origination policy and or first application policy . On the other hand if the mobile device determines that the new location is not within the first space the mobile device could take some additional action to determine whether to apply a different policy or policies such as one or more policies associated with a different space that is defined in the policy information.

For example the policy information could define a second space and associate the second space with a second notification policy a second origination policy and or a second application policy. In that case the mobile device could compare the new location to the second space defined in the policy information. If the mobile device determines that the new location is within the second space the mobile device could apply the policy or policies associated with the second space instead of the policy or policies associated with the first space.

Alternatively the mobile device could transmit an indication of its new location and receive new policy information. The new policy information could define at least a second space and associate the second space with a second notification policy a second origination policy and or a second application policy. The mobile device could compare the new location to the second space defined in the new policy information. If the mobile device determines that the new location is within the second space the mobile device could apply the policy or policies associated with the second space instead of the policy or policies associated with the first space.

For example with reference to a user carrying a mobile device might enter grounds area Space 1 of property . The user s mobile device could report a location that is within Space 1 and receive policy information that covers the entire property such as policy map shown in . The mobile device could determine that its location corresponds to Space 1 based on the definition of Space 1 contained in the policy map and apply the policies associated with Space 1. As the mobile device continues moving within grounds area the mobile device could continue checking its location to find that it is still in Space 1. At some point the user might enter building through entrance . At that point the user s mobile device could determine a new location and determine that the new location is within Space 2 the hallway defined in the policy map. In response the mobile device could apply the policies associated that Space 2. Subsequently the user might enter one of the classrooms Space 3 the gym or locker room Space 4 the cafeteria Space 5 or the library Space 6 in which case the mobile device could again determine its location find that it has moved into a new space and apply the policies associated with its new space.

By referring to policy information that defines spaces and associates the defined spaces with notification origination and or application policies a mobile device can determine on its own what policies to apply. For example the mobile device could periodically determine its location compare its location to the spaces defined in the policy information to determine which space it is currently operating in and apply the policies that are associated with the space where it is currently operating.

Some or all of the functions described above and illustrated in could be performed by a computing device in response to the execution of instructions stored in a non transitory computer readable medium. The non transitory computer readable medium could be for example a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM a flash memory a cache memory one or more magnetically encoded discs one or more optically encoded discs or any other form of non transitory data storage. The non transitory computer readable medium could also be distributed among multiple data storage elements which could be remotely located from each other.

The computing device that executes the stored instructions could be a server device such as server device illustrated in . In that case the non transitory computer readable medium could correspond to data storage . Alternatively the computing device that executes the stored instructions could be a client device such as client device illustrated in . In that case the non transitory computer readable medium could correspond to data storage . The client device could be a mobile device such as mobile device illustrated in .

The above detailed description describes various features and functions of the disclosed systems devices and methods with reference to the accompanying figures. While various aspects and embodiments have been disclosed herein other aspects and embodiments will be apparent to those skilled in the art. The various aspects and embodiments disclosed herein are for purposes of illustration and are not intended to be limiting with the true scope and spirit being indicated by the following claims.

