---

title: System and method for providing the identification of geographically closest article dispensing machines
abstract: A system and method of searching for physical media articles available from article dispensing machines within a geographic proximity is provided. Searching may include matching keywords in search criteria or using predefined search criteria for browsing of static or dynamic listings of media content. The method includes receiving a search request including search criteria, and searching the metadata database for a physical media article matching the search criteria. The method also includes determining the availability of the matching media article at an article dispensing machine. The geographic location of article dispensing machines with available matching media articles is determined, based on personally identifying information such as an IP or MAC address. The geographic location may be limited by a proximity from an audio/visual display interface. A search result set with the matching media articles is provided, based on their availabilities.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09495465&OS=09495465&RS=09495465
owner: Redbox Automated Retail, LLC
number: 09495465
owner_city: Oakbrook Terrace
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120717
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 510 015 filed Jul. 20 2011 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR PROVIDING THE IDENTIFICATION OF GEOGRAPHICALLY CLOSEST ARTICLE DISPENSING MACHINES and is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

This invention relates to a system and method for providing the identification of geographically closest article dispensing machines in searching for media content. More particularly the present invention provides a system and method for searching for physical media articles that are available at an article dispensing machine that is geographically closest to the location where the search originated.

While the present invention is often described herein with reference to a digital video disc Blu Ray disc and video game distribution system an application to which the present invention is advantageously suited it will be readily apparent that the present invention is not limited to that application and can be employed in article dispensing systems used to distribute a wide variety of dispensable articles.

The digital video disc DVD player has been one of the most successful consumer electronics product launches in history. The market for DVD movie video Blu Ray movie video and video game rentals is enormous and growing. Millions of households have acquired DVDs since they were introduced in 1997. In the first quarter of 2003 alone it was estimated that well over three million DVD players were shipped to U.S. retailers.

In 2003 brick and mortar stores dominated the movie video and video game rental landscape in the U.S. Statistics showed that two brick and mortar companies controlled nearly sixty five percent of the home video rental business. One element repeatedly cited for success of certain brick and mortar store video rental franchises was perceived high availability of new video releases. Consumers want entertainment on demand and through stocking multiple units of each new release successful brick and mortar companies meet this consumer demand.

The foregoing indicates that there is a significant market potential for aligning regular routines of consumers e.g. shopping getting coffee or gas or going to a convenience store with their DVD Blu Ray and video game rental activities.

One improved article dispensing machine is disclosed in commonly owned U.S. Pat. No. 7 234 609 which is herein incorporated by reference in its entirety. The invention of the U.S. Pat. No. 7 234 609 and the present invention can function as an article dispensing machine based distribution system that will typically have multiple units of each new release per article dispensing machine. The dispensing machines of the U.S. Pat. No. 7 234 609 and the present invention can stock up to two thousand DVDs Blu Ray video games or other discs movies games or other entertainment content making the system competitive with existing brick and mortar video rental superstores.

The dispensing machine and system of the U.S. Pat. No. 7 234 609 and the present invention distinguishes itself from such stores by offering major benefits not conventionally offered by such stores including additional cross marketing programs e.g. promotional rentals for a certain amount of dollars spent at the retail location and convenience e.g. open always .

The dispensing machine of the U.S. Pat. No. 7 234 609 and the present invention yields a competitive advantage in the DVD Blu Ray and video games rental marketplace by offering consumers cross marketing promotional programs convenience of selection e.g. computer based searches for movies and recommendations based on consumer profiles and potentially extended hours. The present invention employs a more cost effective convenient platform than brick and mortar stores. In addition with the present invention dispensing machines can be situated in retail locations having high foot traffic such as at a popular grocery store restaurant drug store and or other popular retail location.

The dispensing machine of the U.S. Pat. No. 7 234 609 and the present invention can be operated at a substantial savings over the costs associated with traditional brick and mortar video rental stores. For example the present invention does not require hourly employees manning the dispensing machines or restocking them with inventories due to the ability of the article transport storage units to be delivered to picked up from retail locations by third party delivery services such as traditional or contracted courier services.

Unlike brick and mortar stores the dispensing machine of the U.S. Pat. No. 7 234 609 and the present invention does not require an on site store manager because all operational decisions can be made at a centralized location by a management team officed remote from the retail locations. Unlike brick and mortar stores the dispensing machine of the U.S. Pat. No. 7 234 609 and the present invention does not require significant physical space. Unlike brick and mortar stores the dispensing machine of the U.S. Pat. No. 7 234 609 and the present invention has low operating costs because no heating or air conditioning is required for the dispensing machines and they consume a relatively low level of electrical energy. In addition the dispensing machine of the U.S. Pat. No. 7 234 609 has low maintenance costs and downtime.

The dispensing machine of the U.S. Pat. No. 7 234 609 and the present invention addresses the shortcomings of traditional brick and mortar stores in a convenient and cost effective delivery vehicle having the added bonus of serving as an effective promotional platform that drives incremental sales to retail locations. In addition the dispensing machine of the U.S. Pat. No. 7 234 609 and the present invention overcomes these disadvantages by at least offering more new releases and older selections for any given time period and lower cost per viewing with significantly more convenience than Internet based and pay per view services.

The dispensing machine of the U.S. Pat. No. 7 234 609 and the present invention is a fully automated integrated DVD Blu Ray and video game rental and or purchase systems. It preferably incorporates robust secure scalable software that provides a fully personalized user experience and real time feedback to retail locations and advertisers scalable hardware that leverages existing technologies such as touch screen focused audio speakers and video monitors technology utilizing the Internet through a system website or mobile consumer electronics device application and an article transport storage unit that facilitates the exchange of new discs for old discs in each machine with virtually no need for human intervention. These technologies and others fill long felt needs in the art and give advantages over conventional video distribution options. The dispensing machine of the U.S. Pat. No. 7 234 609 and the present invention functions as much as a promotional platform as it does a rental kiosk.

By utilizing the dispensing machines and the fully interactive real time linked Internet website or mobile consumer electronics device applications consumers can rent one or more DVDs Blu Ray discs video games or other entertainment content directly from dispensing machines as well as indirectly by making a rental reservation through the website or application for later pickup at a conveniently located machine. These dispensing machines are preferably networked with each other with the inventory control and or supply office and with the system website or application by phone line DSL wireless network or other Internet connection at each retail location. Through this linked network the rental experience for each consumer can be customized based on a profile for each consumer such as via personalized home pages and rental screens.

Existing media content search engines provide search results that include only digital media available at digital media content providers. Other existing media content search engines provide search results that only include physical media articles such as DVDs Blu Ray discs and video games. A user of existing media content search engines cannot view search results that include an aggregation of digital media and physical media articles. Some users may wish to rent or obtain a physical media article rather than access a digital media selection for cost video quality convenience or other reasons but these users must access a specific search engine to obtain results related to the physical media articles. In addition the search results from existing media content search engines may include results that are based directly on the search criteria while some users may be interested in additional media content that is indirectly associated with the search criteria. Furthermore the search results from existing media content search engines may include media selections that are only available to customers with certain subscription packages. In this case a user may become frustrated when they attempt to view a particular media selection only to find that their subscription package does not allow access.

The present invention permits a user to search for media content including physical media articles and digital media. Physical media articles may include for example DVDs Blu Ray discs and video game discs while digital media may include for example streaming videos videos on demand downloadable videos streaming video games and downloadable video games. Searching for media content may include matching keywords in search criteria or using predefined search criteria for browsing of static or dynamic listings of media content. By returning search results that aggregate both physical and digital media content the present invention allows users to have convenient access to all of their media content options. Moreover content providers for the digital media selections and providers of the physical media articles receive exposure to potential customers by allowing users to see the breadth and availability of multiple types of media content in a single search result set. The present invention overcomes disadvantages of existing media content search engines by showing search results that include media articles and media selections corresponding to search criteria received in a search request. The availability of the media articles and media selections is also provided such as information related to inventory and subscription access. A metadata database is searched for the metadata of a media article matching search criteria and the metadata of a media selection matching the search criteria in response to receiving a search request with the search criteria. An availability of the matching media article at an article dispensing machine is determined an associated content provider is identified and an availability of the matching media selection at the associated content provider is determined. A search result set based on the determined availabilities of the matching media article and the matching media selection is provided. A customer subscription for the associated content provider is accessed so that the matching media selection is returned in the search result set if the customer subscription allows access to the matching media selection.

The present invention further allows a user to determine the location and distance of article dispensing machines respective to the current location of the user. The present invention may allow this determination without requiring the user to input his or her current location. In one embodiment the present invention determines the location of and distance to local article dispensing machines based on personally identifiable information. The personally identifiable information may be the Internet Protocol IP address or Media Access Control MAC address of an electronic device that the user is operating. The personally identifiable information may also or alternatively be already stored in a database and associated with the user s account information. Other features and advantages are provided by the following description and drawings.

While this invention is susceptible of embodiments in many different forms there is shown in the drawings and will herein be described in detail preferred embodiments of the invention with the understanding that the present disclosure is to be considered as an exemplification of the principles of the invention and is not intended to limit the broad aspect of the invention to the embodiments illustrated.

As shown in each article dispensing machine includes a dispensing machine processor also referred to herein as a vending controller which is connected to a first sensor and a second sensor a first motor and a second motor and a user interface control system collectively referred to as the peripheral devices. The processor is capable of executing various programs to provide input to and or receive outputs from the peripheral devices. Suitable processors for such use are known to those of skill in the art. In addition the processor is operably connected to at least one memory storage device such as a hard drive or flash drive or other suitable memory storage device.

Article dispensing machine memory storage device can include any one or a combination of volatile memory elements e.g. random access memory RAM such as DRAM SRAM SDRAM etc. and nonvolatile memory elements e.g. ROM hard drive tape CDROM etc. . Moreover article dispensing machine memory storage device may incorporate electronic magnetic optical and or other types of storage media. Article dispensing machine memory storage device can have a distributed architecture where various components are situated remote from one another but are still accessed by processor. Article dispensing machine memory storage device includes an article dispensing machine database .

The article dispensing machines preferably comprise a network of machines in communication with one another. As shown in in the preferred configuration the article dispensing machines are networked with one another via a central server or central controller in a hub and spoke system. However optionally the article dispensing machines may be connected and communicate directly with one another and or subsets of article dispensing machines may communicate with one another directly as well as with the central server .

Generally in terms of hardware architecture the central server and the content provider backend shown in include a central processor and or controller central memory and one or more input and or output I O devices or peripherals that are communicatively coupled via a local interface. The architecture of the central server is set forth in greater detail in U.S. Pat. No. 7 234 609 the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference. Numerous variations of the architecture of the central server and the content provider backend would be understood by one of skill in the art and are encompassed within the scope of the present invention.

The processor controller is a hardware device for executing software particularly software stored in memory. The processor can be any custom made or commercially available processor a central processing unit CPU an auxiliary processor among several processors associated with the server a semiconductor based microprocessor in the form of a microchip or chip set a macroprocessor or generally any device for executing software instructions. Examples of suitable commercially available microprocessors are as follows a PA RISC series microprocessor from Hewlett Packard Company an 80 86 or Pentium series microprocessor from Intel Corporation a PowerPC microprocessor from IBM a Sparc microprocessor from Sun Microsystems Inc. or a 68xxx series microprocessor from Motorola Corporation. The processor may also represent a distributed processing architecture such as but not limited to SQL Smalltalk APL KLisp Snobol Developer 200 or MUMPS Magic.

The software in memory may include one or more separate programs. The separate programs comprise ordered listings of executable instructions for implementing logical functions. The software in memory includes a suitable operating system O S . A non exhaustive list of examples of suitable commercially available operating systems is as follows a a Windows operating system available from Microsoft Corporation b a Netware operating system available from Novell Inc. c a Macintosh operating system available from Apple Inc. d a UNIX operating system which is available for purchase from many vendors such as the Hewlett Packard Company Sun Microsystems Inc. and AT T Corporation e a LINUX operating system which is freeware that is readily available on the Internet f a runtime Vxworks operating system from WindRiver Systems Inc. or g an appliance based operating system such as that implemented in handheld computers smartphones or personal digital assistants PDAs e.g. PalmOS available from Palm Computing Inc. Windows CE or Windows Phone available from Microsoft Corporation iOS available from Apple Inc. Android available from Google Inc. BlackBerry OS available from Research in Motion Limited Symbian available from Nokia Corp. . The operating system essentially controls the execution of other computer programs and provides scheduling input output control file and data management memory management and communication control and related services.

Steps and or elements and or portions thereof of the present invention may be implemented using a source program executable program object code script or any other entity comprising a set of instructions to be performed. When a source program the program needs to be translated via a compiler assembler interpreter or the like which may or may not be included within the memory so as to operate properly in connection with the operating system O S . Furthermore the software embodying the present invention can be written as a an object oriented programming language which has classes of data and methods or b a procedural programming language which has routines subroutines and or functions for example but not limited to C C Pascal Basic Fortran Cobol Perl Java Ada and Lua.

When article dispensing machine is in operation the article dispensing machine processor is configured to execute software stored within article dispensing machine memory to communicate data to and from the dispensing machine memory and to generally control operations of article dispensing machine pursuant to the software. The software aspects of the present invention and the O S in whole or in part but typically the latter are read by processor perhaps buffered within the processor and then executed.

When the present invention or aspects thereof are implemented in software it should be noted that the software can be stored on any computer readable medium for use by or in connection with any computer related system or method. In the context of this document a computer readable medium is an electronic magnetic optical or other physical device or means that can contain or store a computer program for use by or in connection with a computer related system or method. The present invention can be embodied in any computer readable medium for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device such as a computer based system processor containing system or other system that can fetch the instructions from the instruction execution system apparatus or device and execute the instructions. In the context of this document a computer readable medium can be any means that can store communicate propagate or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device. The computer readable medium can be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus device or propagation medium. More specific examples a non exhaustive list of the computer readable medium would include the following an electrical connection electronic having one or more wires a portable computer diskette magnetic a random access memory RAM electronic a read only memory ROM electronic an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM EEPROM or Flash memory electronic an optical fiber optical and a portable compact disc read only memory CDROM optical . Note that the computer readable medium could even be paper or another suitable medium upon which the program is printed as the program can be electronically captured via for instance optical scanning of the paper or other medium then compiled interpreted or otherwise processed in a suitable manner if necessary and then stored in a computer memory.

For communication with the central server article dispensing machine is equipped with network communication equipment and circuitry. In a preferred embodiment the network communication equipment includes a network card such as an Ethernet card. In a preferred network environment each of the plurality of article dispensing machines on the network is configured to use the TCP IP protocol to communicate via the network . It will be understood however that a variety of network protocols could also be employed such as IPX SPX Netware PPP and others. It will also be understood that while a preferred embodiment of the present invention is for article dispensing machine to have a broadband connection to the network the principles of the present invention are also practicable with a dialup connection using a standard modem. Wireless network connections are also contemplated such as wireless Ethernet satellite infrared radio frequency Bluetooth near field communication and cellular networks.

The central controller communicates with the article dispensing machine controllers via the network . The central controller is preferably located at a central station or office that is remote from the plurality of article dispensing machines . The central controller can operate as the server for communicating over the network between the plurality of article dispensing machines . The central controller receives communications and information from the article dispensing machines and also transmits communications and information to the machines . For example when a rental transaction is performed at the article dispensing machine transaction data such as the rented title is then transmitted from the machine to the central controller via the network . It will be understood that central servers in general such as the central controller are often distributed. A plurality of central servers controllers may optionally be arranged in load balanced architecture to improve the speed and efficiency of the network. To accomplish the implementation of multiple controllers the controllers may be in communication with a router distributor .

The central controller is also in communication with a central database . The central database stores information regarding the transaction network. For example the central database stores data regarding the vending inventory at each of the plurality of article dispensing machines . The central database also stores sales information regarding the sales quantities of the vending merchandise stored in the machines . For example the central database stores information regarding the sales totals for each title and for each machine vending location. Central database may also store information related to the geographic location of each article dispensing machine such as the latitude and longitude address or other geographic location identifier of each machine . Central database also stores user information and rental transaction information such as user IDs the date on which discs are due to be returned the date on which discs were rented from the machines and a list of valid coupon codes and restrictions associated with those codes. In certain embodiments central database also may be configured to store user PINs. Some of this information is also preferably stored in article dispensing machine database .

Central database and databases in the content provider backend such as the content provider customer profile database and other databases are preferably relational databases although other types of database architectures may be used without departing from the principles of the present invention. For example the databases and may be a SQL database an Access database or an Oracle database and in any such embodiment have the functionality stored herein. Central database is also preferably capable of being shared as illustrated between a plurality of central controllers and its information is also preferably capable of being transmitted via network . It will be understood that a variety of methods exist for serving the information stored in central database and database . In one embodiment .net and Microsoft Reporting Services are employed however other technologies such as ODBC MySQL CFML and the like may be used.

The central controller central database and components of the content provider backend are also accessible by an electronic device which may include a personal computer mobile device e.g. smartphone PDA etc. tablet computer video game console television and Blu Ray player . The electronic device may be in direct or indirect communication with the central controller central database and or the content provider backend through a wired and or wireless network connection such as Ethernet Wi Fi cellular 3G 4G etc. or other type of connection. As a personal computer the electronic device will be understood as comprising hardware and software consistent with marketable personal and laptop computers such as a display monitor a keyboard and a microprocessor. The electronic device may also comprise Internet browser software such as Firefox Internet Explorer Chrome or Safari. Using the browser software a user of electronic device can access a web interface through the central controller . An application may also execute on the electronic device that accesses the central controller . To that end central controller preferably comprises web server software such as IIS or Apache. It will be understood that a variety of web server software and web browser software exists to implement the principles of the present invention without departing therefrom. Through the web browser software or application the electronic device communicates with the central controller and allows the user to login to a central command functionality of the central controller and to view and modify data stored in the central database . The browser interface or application also allows the user to perform certain system functions which will affect the inventory and behavior of the article dispensing machines . The electronic device may communicate with the central controller central database components of the system backend and components of the content provider backend using rules and specifications of an application programming interface API .

In an embodiment a financial server is also in communication with the network . It will be understood that a variety of financial services exist for processing financial information via the Internet and other networks . Those services allow for the processing of credit card and debit card information so that users of the services do not have to interface directly with credit and debit card companies. In the financial server is illustrated as a single server although the financial server may comprise an entire sub network of financial servers responsible for processing financial information.

As shown in article dispensing machine includes a machine housing with front rear top bottom and side panels. The machine housing is preferably a combination molded fiberglass and sheet metal cabinet. However those skilled in the art will appreciate that the housing can be constructed from a variety of other suitable materials and with a variety of other suitable manufacturing techniques.

As shown most clearly in a user interface portion of housing includes a card reader a keypad and or touch screen and an article transfer opening . The card reader is preferably designed in known fashion to read magnetically encoded membership and or credit debit cards for authorizing the distribution of articles of inventory through the article transfer opening . Keypad and or touch screen permits consumers and or inventory stocking personnel to communicate with the dispensing machine and or a central office linked in electrical communication with the dispensing machine. Keypad and or touch screen also permits consumers and or inventory stocking personnel to enter appropriate commands directed to carrying out specific machine tasks. It will be appreciated that the optional touch screen includes a monitor made with known technologies making it capable of being utilized as a user interface for entry of commands designed to carry out machine tasks. The touch screen may also be capable of displaying a QR Quick Response code to a customer. The customer may read the QR code with a camera on a mobile device or with a dedicated QR code reader. The QR code can represent a universal resource locator URL to access a digital media selection for example.

Furthermore it will be appreciated that additional user interface portions having additional or even identical user interface components could be incorporated within article dispensing machine . For example these components could be incorporated on other panels of the housing of machine so that the machine can be used simultaneously by multiple consumers translating into more efficient distribution of articles in high traffic areas. Dispensing machine also preferably includes speaker units. Known audio technology may be incorporated within dispensing machine to broadcast focused audio directed to relatively small e.g. three square feet locations in front of the machines from speaker units and or in other designated locations at a retail site.

The system backend includes components that primarily communicate information such as transaction and inventory data to and from the article dispensing machines . Components in the system backend also communicate information to and from the content provider backend and the A V display interface . The system backend is detailed below with reference to . The content provider backend includes components that primarily communicate information to and from the A V display interface . Components in the content provider backend also communicate information to and from the system backend as detailed further below. Data communicated between the article dispensing machines the system backend the content provider backend and or the A V display interface may utilize the XML Extensible Markup Language format. The electronic device and the A V display interface may communicate with the system backend and or the content provider backend using rules and specifications of an application programming interface API .

The A V display interface can be a fixed device or mobile device including a set top box a module of an internet ready television a Blu Ray player with internet connectability a software application executing on a mobile device cable television converter box satellite television set top box IPTV Internet Protocol television set top box including AT T U Verse digital video recorder tablet computer video game console including Microsoft Xbox family Sony PlayStation family Nintendo Wii and similar devices handheld gaming device including Sony PlayStation Portable Nintendo DS and similar devices laptop computer desktop computer streaming media box including Apple TV Google TV Roku Boxee and similar devices or any other device capable of receiving and displaying streaming on demand and or downloadable electronic media from a content provider. Moreover applications may be installed and executed on the A V display interface that communicate with the system backend and or the content provider backend to provide media content and other information to a user of the A V display interface .

The article dispensing machines can communicate with the system backend including the central server and controller via network communication equipment and circuitry as detailed above. Furthermore the system backend can communicate with the content provider backend and the A V display interface via the same or different network communication equipment and circuitry. In particular the system backend can directly communicate with the content provider backend and the A V display interface or in one embodiment the system backend can communicate with the A V display interface through the content provider backend . It will also be understood that while a preferred embodiment of the present invention is for the components of the system to have a broadband connection with one another the principles of the present invention are also practicable with a dialup connection using a standard modem. Wireless network connections are also contemplated such as wireless Ethernet satellite infrared radio frequency Bluetooth near field communication and cellular networks.

Each of the article dispensing machines may operate without requiring continuous connectivity and communication with the central controller . In one embodiment the central controller only transmits data in response to communication from an article dispensing machine . For example an article dispensing machine may attempt to communicate with the central controller following completion of one or more rental transactions or one or more media article return transactions. In another embodiment the article dispensing machine continues normal operations and transactions even if communication is interrupted or cannot be established with the central controller . In these cases transaction data can be stored locally in the article dispensing machine such as in the article dispensing machine memory storage device until a predetermined time interval elapses when a predetermined number of transactions is reached or until communication with the central controller can be reestablished. Once communication is established with the central controller financial and inventory information can be uploaded and the appropriate servers and databases can be updated.

In an embodiment the article dispensing machine can display only media articles which are physically located at the article dispensing machine . In this way a customer may browse on the user interface only the media articles which are in stock and available to rent at that article dispensing machine . Typically the article dispensing machine possesses media information for the media articles that are currently located in the article dispensing machine . The media information for a media article includes title actor director studio publisher plot synopsis format description parental rating individualized ratings and reviews popularity article type running time genre cover artwork or other information. The article dispensing machine can also store in memory the media information for recently rented media articles that are no longer physically stored in the article dispensing machine . The article dispensing machine can communicate with the central controller when media information about a particular media article is needed. For example when a particular media article is returned to an article dispensing machine that does not have the corresponding media information for that particular media article the article dispensing machine can query the central controller metadata database and or inventory database for the media information. Once the media information is obtained the article dispensing machine may display that particular media article on the user interface as in stock and available to rent.

In another embodiment the article dispensing machine can display media articles that are both physically located and not physically located at the article dispensing machine . In this embodiment media articles which are both available and unavailable to rent can be displayed. A media article may be unavailable to rent if it is not in stock or is in stock but has been reserved for rental. In one example the entire catalog of media articles stored in the inventory database can be displayed on the article dispensing machine . In another example a subset of the entire catalog of media articles can be displayed on the article dispensing machine . The subset of media articles that can be displayed on the article dispensing machine may be determined for example based on geographic location retailer agreements contractual obligations customer rental habits and other criteria. The media articles that can be displayed on the article dispensing machine may include recently rented media articles that are no longer physically stored in the article dispensing machine or media articles that have never been physically in the article dispensing machine . For example media articles that have never been physically in the article dispensing machine may be displayed because those media articles may be available at a nearby article dispensing machine. In this case those media articles may be displayed to the customer so that the customer has an option to obtain those media articles from the nearby article dispensing machine . In this embodiment if a customer attempts to rent a media article that is out of stock reserved for another customer or otherwise cannot be vended at the particular article dispensing machine then that media article can be deemed an unavailable media article. Although a physically unavailable media article cannot be rented from the particular article dispensing machine a digital alternative media selection may be available and substituted for the unavailable media article.

The identification and authentication controller can receive a unique customer identifier that a customer provides to the article dispensing machines during a rental transaction. The unique customer identifier can be a credit or debit card number a hashed version of a credit or debit card number or other unique identifier used for payment and or identification purposes. In the case of hashing of the credit or debit card number the hash function applied to the credit or debit card number is preferably implemented on the article dispensing machines and may be for example a SHA 256 hashing algorithm. The identification and authentication controller can validate the payment capability of a credit or debit card by communicating with the financial server .

A customer may be authenticated to multiple customer profiles and accounts by the identification and authentication controller . The unique customer identifier provided by the customer can authenticate the customer to an existing customer profile and account for the article dispensing machines . The existing customer profile and account can be stored and looked up using the unique customer identifier in the customer profile database that is connected to the identification and authentication controller . The unique customer identifier can also link the existing customer account to a content provider customer account via a connection from the customer profile database to the content provider customer profile database in the content provider backend as shown in . Zero one or more content provider customer accounts may be linked in the customer profile database to the existing customer account for the article dispensing machines . A content provider may include but is not limited to a cable television operator a satellite television service provider an IPTV provider an online gaming and digital media delivery service Xbox Live PlayStation Network OnLive etc. a website YouTube Hulu etc. a movie studio a television network a game publisher or a retailer Best Buy Walmart etc. . Media selections available from a content provider may include videos on demand streaming videos downloadable videos streaming video games or downloadable video games. The media selections may be available through the A V display interface that is in communication with the content provider backend .

The customer profile database can contain information related to customers of the article dispensing machines including name mailing and billing addresses email addresses phone and mobile numbers username password payment methods rental history purchase history preferred article dispensing machines movie and video game genre preferences customizations subscriptions parental controls linked content provider accounts content provider subscriptions and entitlements and other data. A rental transaction can be personalized using information from the customer profile database at the article dispensing machines and a website interface . For example only certain genres and titles of DVDs Blu Ray discs or video games could be shown if a customer sets particular preferences that are then stored in the customer profile database . Some of the information stored in the customer profile database may also be stored in the article dispensing machine database . The customer profile database may include a service which facilitates interfacing and communicating with a notification engine and other components of the system backend for example.

The website interface can be interactive and accessible to a customer using web browser software at an electronic device . The website interface may also include a mobile application or consumer electronics device application. Rentable media articles may be searched browsed and reserved on the website interface for receipt at the article dispensing machines . The location of and the inventory at article dispensing machines can be viewed at the website interface . Digital media selections from content providers such as streaming downloadable and on demand media may also be searched browsed and accessed on the website interface . A customer can access their customer profile on the website interface for purposes of verifying and updating their personal information in the customer profile database . For example a customer can link an account they have with a content provider on the website interface by specifying their username password account number and or other identifying information for the content provider account. The system backend can utilize SAML Security Assertion Markup Language OAuth Open Authentication or other protocols to authenticate the identity of the customer at the content provider via a connection from the website interface to the content provider identification and authentication controller in the content provider backend as shown in . If the identifying information matches the content provider account the linkage to the content provider account can be stored in the customer profile database .

Like website interface rentable media articles may be searched browsed and reserved through A V display interface for receipt at the article dispensing machines . For example an application executing on the A V display interface may be accessed by a customer. The location of and the inventory at article dispensing machines can be viewed at A V display interface . A user may use A V display interface to display all dispensing machines that are within a requested proximity that match search criteria. Using personally indentifying information such as the IP or MAC address of A V display interface the proximity of or distance from the user to dispensing machines may also be viewed at A V display interface . Other personally identifying information may also be used such as a digital certificate identifier or serial number. It is understood by those in the art that an IP address is a numerical label assigned to any device participating in a computer network that uses the Internet Protocol for communication. It is also understood by those in the art that a MAC address is a unique hexadecimal identifier assigned to a network interface of a device. The MAC address of the A V display interface for example may be associated with a customer profile that contains an address. The geographic location that corresponds to an IP or MAC address may be stored in an address database that may be part of central database or metadata database or may be another database located at a remote location.

A V display interface may access the address database to determine the geographic location of A V display interface and then may use mapping APIs mapping data or mapping services such as Google Maps Bing Maps Navteq Mapquest Tele Atlas or similar providers to display the dispensing machines that are proximate to A V display interface . By way of example and in no way limiting A V display interface may display all dispensing machines that are within a 5 mile radius of A V display interface . In another example A V display interface may display all dispensing machines in a 10 mile radius that currently have a specific media article in stock. As a further example a user interface of an application executing on the A V display interface may be modified based on the geographic location of the A V display interface . The user interface can be modified to show popular rentable media articles in an area corresponding to the geographic location themed user interface information or media articles related to the area corresponding to the geographic location or other modifications.

The address database may be located on central controller or may be part of central database . Alternatively the address database may be proprietary to a third party and A V display interface may utilize a third party service provider or database such as Quova to access the address database to determine the geographic location of A V display interface .

An inventory database may contain a catalog of physical media articles that may be rented at the article dispensing machines and reserved at the website interface for later receipt at the article dispensing machines . A catalog of digital media selections available at the content provider can be contained in the metadata database . Metadata for each of the media articles and media selections are stored in the metadata database including title release date running time chapter information technical details resolution audio options languages etc. format peripheral device requirements number of players online capability actors voice actors director studio publisher developer platform availability of downloadable content episode information genre critic ratings individualized ratings reviews recommendations likes etc. parental ratings MPAA ESRB TV Parental Guidelines etc. description related content media artwork media stills and other information.

Physical media articles that may be rented at the article dispensing machines and digital media selections available at the content provider may be synchronized and mapped to one another by matching their respective metadata. As seen in a synchronization and mapping engine connected to the customer profile database the metadata database and the content provider asset management system in the content provider backend may compare the metadata for the media articles and media selections to determine matches. Metadata in the content provider asset management system for media selections can be compared to metadata in the metadata database to perform the matching. For example a combination of a title release date running time and or actor information can be used to map a media article to a corresponding media selection. In one embodiment proprietary identification codes unique to a media article and a media selection can be used to map the media article to the corresponding media selection. The proprietary identification codes for the media article and the media selection can be stored in the metadata database and the content provider asset management system respectively. Such proprietary identification codes can be assigned to media articles and media selections by third party providers such as Rovi Baseline and AMG.

A media selection at a content provider can be placed in the saved programs queue on the A V display interface as shown in by providing the appropriate instructions to the content provider asset management system in the content provider backend . Queuing a media selection may occur for example when a customer decides to purchase the digital media selection from the content provider in place of a physical media article at an article dispensing machine .

An inventory database can be connected to the article dispensing machine and the metadata database to provide information regarding the availability of media articles in the article dispensing machines . In conjunction with a search engine the inventory database and the metadata database can provide inventory results for media articles and media selections to an A V display interface application on an A V display interface as shown in . Such results may include the availability of physical media articles at the article dispensing machines as well as digital media selections available at a content provider. The results may also be provided to the website interface or other websites operated by a content provider for example. The synchronization and mapping engine can store the information from the content provider asset management system regarding media selections at the content provider in the metadata database . The inventory database can also supply the availability of media articles in the article dispensing machines to the website interface or to other portals such as an application on a mobile device when queried.

A metadata database watcher can monitor the metadata database for changes in metadata media articles and or media selections. The metadata database watcher can use customer watchlist subscriptions from a customer profile in the customer profile database to determine what changes to monitor. The changes to the metadata can include inventory availability content provider availability release schedules and other information related to a particular title. The customer watchlist subscriptions can be used by the metadata database watcher to monitor these changes in combination with information regarding particular actors directors and other information. When a change corresponding to a customer watchlist subscription is found by the metadata database watcher a notification engine can transmit notifications and details of the change to the customer. The notifications may be sent via email SMS mobile application alerts set top box notification or other electronic channels.

A customer may also subscribe to be notified about new information regarding their favorite actors directors titles studios and other parameters. Such information may include information related to live performances television appearances news and magazine articles blogs and other content. A web crawler and data feed can obtain this information by searching pertinent websites and use of a public API to feed the metadata database . The customer can subscribe to this information about their favorites at the website interface for example. The metadata database watcher monitoring the metadata database can detect when there is a new piece of information about a favorite and transmit the desired notifications using the notification engine .

An embodiment of a process for searching for media content in a metadata database using the search engine is shown in . The process can result in a search result set that includes media articles and media selections that match search criteria in the metadata database. Searching for media content may include matching keywords in search criteria or using predefined search criteria for browsing of static or dynamic listings of media content. The metadata database can contain metadata information for one or more physical media articles such as DVDs Blu Ray discs and or video games and one or more digital media selections such as streaming videos videos on demand streaming video games and or downloadable video games. An inventory database can be in communication with the metadata database and contain information regarding the availability of media articles at the article dispensing machines . The availabilities of the matching media articles and the matching media selections can also be returned in the search result set produced by the process . As discussed above metadata for the media articles and the media selections may include title release date running time chapter information technical details format peripheral device requirements number of players online capability actors voice actors director studio publisher developer platform availability of downloadable content episode information genre critic ratings individualized ratings parental ratings description related content media artwork media stills and other information.

Matching media articles corresponding to the search criteria can include media articles that directly match the search criteria and or media articles that are indirectly associated with the search criteria. Similarly matching media selections may directly or indirectly match the search criteria. For example if the search criteria include the keyword Camelot the search result set provided by the process may include direct matches such as a media selection listing for the television series Camelot on the premium cable channel Starz available as a video on demand and a media article listing for the 1967 movie Camelot available for rental from an article dispensing machine . The search result set may also include indirect matches for associated media articles and associated media selections such as the King Arthur video game or the Merlin television miniseries on DVD that are available at an article dispensing machine and or from a content provider. Metadata for the associated media articles and media selections may match the search criteria which can cause the associated media articles and media selections to be included in the search result set. In the example above the Merlin television miniseries may appear in the search result set because the search criteria Camelot may match a plot keyword in the metadata of that particular media article. In an alternative embodiment the indirect matches may appear in the search result set due to metadata from the direct matches. The metadata from the direct matches may not directly match the search criteria but instead lead to the indirect matches. In the example above the King Arthur video game may appear in the search result set not because the search criteria Camelot is in the metadata for the video game but because the direct matched television series Camelot has metadata including King Arthur .

In some embodiments the rental or purchase history of the customer from the customer database may also be utilized in conjunction with the metadata of the media article as described above to determine matching media articles and matching media selections. For example if a customer attempts to search for the movie Return of the Jedi indirect matching media selections may be determined such as the movies The Empire Strikes Back and Star Wars Episode I The Phantom Menace. The indirect matching media selections may be determined based on metadata for the movie Return of the Jedi and or the prior rental history of the customer that may include for example rentals of the movie Star Wars and the video game Star Wars Battlefront.

The search result set provided by the process may also be ordered or ranked by combinations of criteria such as by price version video quality audio quality availability release date and or other factors including the metadata described above. Versions of media articles and media selections may differ based on the aspect ratio of the media 4 3 16 9 and others ratings geographical restrictions special features three dimensional content or other differences. The video quality of media articles and media selections may differ due to the resolution of the media such as 480p 480i 720p 1080i and 1080p. Audio quality may vary for media articles and media selections such as by the type of multichannel audio technology Dolby Digital DTS and others and number of audio channels 9.1 7.1 6.1 5.1 stereo mono and others . The availability and release date of media articles and media selections may include whether a certain title is coming soon to or leaving soon from an article dispensing machine or a content provider for example. Availability and release dates may also be designated by studios that produced and created the media. In one embodiment one or more recommendations for the best viewing option s may be provided to the user based on the criteria. For example the viewing option with the lowest price and the highest video resolution that is currently available to access may be highlighted in the search result set. In another embodiment the criteria may be displayed with results in the search result set so that the user can decide which option they would like to access.

At step a search request can be received at the search engine . The search request includes search criteria search keywords and or search phrases from a user that wishes to search the metadata database and or the inventory database for a media article or a media selection. The search request may also include a request for the geographic proximity from the user s location to any dispensing machines . The search request may be received from a website accessed by the electronic device such as the website interface or website operated by a content provider an A V display interface application executing on an A V display interface or the electronic device or from any other device or portal capable of transmitting the search request to the search engine . For example a user using the website interface may wish to search for media articles available at an article dispensing machine . As another example a user may be using a website operated by a content provider and desires to search for media selections provided by the content provider. In either example the process may provide a search result set that includes both matching media articles and matching media selections that correspond to the search criteria in the user s search request. The search result set provided by the process therefore aggregates physical matching media articles and digital matching media selections.

The search request received at step may also include a browsing request that uses predefined search criteria for browsing of static or dynamic listings of media content. The browsing request may be received from a user that wishes to browse the metadata database and or the inventory database for a media article or a media selection. The browsing request may include browsing an entire catalog of media content and or browsing by genre format rating popularity platform release date and or other metadata. The search criteria or keywords related to a browsing request may include predefined search criteria or keywords that result in the listing of matching media articles and matching media selections that match the predefined search criteria or keywords. For example a user using the website interface may wish to browse for media articles at an article dispensing machine that are only in the action genre and in Blu Ray format. Predefined search criteria would be used so that only media articles in the action genre and in Blu Ray format are listed. The process may provide a search result set that includes both matching media articles and matching media selections that correspond to the search criteria in the browsing request.

At step the metadata database can be accessed by the synchronization and mapping engine to search for metadata of the media articles and media selections that match the search criteria received in the search request at step . In one embodiment the media articles have been obtained from the inventory database and their corresponding metadata from the metadata database and the media selections in the metadata database and their corresponding metadata have been obtained from the content provider asset management system via the synchronization and mapping engine . When the metadata database is searched at step in this embodiment matching media articles and matching media selections that directly and indirectly match the search criteria are found and stored for later use in the process . As detailed above indirect matches may include media articles and media selections that are not directly associated with the search criteria. In some embodiments only direct matches based on the search criteria can be found and stored.

In other embodiments the media articles and the media selections in the metadata database will be mapped to one another based on their respective metadata at step . One embodiment shown in is a process that is performed in step of the process in which media articles matching the search criteria may be retrieved first followed by using metadata of the matching media articles to find matching media selections. At step the matching media articles are retrieved from the metadata database based on the search criteria in the search request. It can be determined at step whether the metadata of the matching media articles matches the metadata of one or more media selections in the metadata database . For example a combination of the title of a movie and the release year may allow a match of a movie DVD or Blu Ray disc to a streaming movie downloadable movie or video on demand that may be available from a content provider. As another example a combination of the title of a television series the episode title episode number and release year may allow a match of a television show DVD or Blu Ray disc to a media selection available from a content provider. As a further example a combination of the title of a video game release date and publisher may allow a match of a video game to a streaming or downloadable game from a content provider. In the case of a movie or television show if a match between the matching media article and a media selection is not found with the title episode and or release year information the synchronization and mapping engine could also utilize the running time of the movie or television show and the names or initials of the top billed actors. It will be understood that metadata in any combination may be used to obtain a mapping of media articles to media selections. If no match between a matching media article and a media selection is found at step the central controller may store only the matching media articles at step for later use in the process . However if a match is found at step the matching media articles the matching media selections and the associated content providers are stored at step for later use in the process .

Another embodiment shown in is a process that is performed in step of the process in which media selections matching the search criteria may be retrieved first followed by using metadata of the matching media selections to find matching media articles. At step the matching media selections are retrieved from the metadata database based on the search criteria in the search request. It can be determined at step whether the metadata of the matching media selections matches the metadata of one or more media articles in the metadata database . The matching performed at step is similar to the matching performed at step in the process described above using one or more combinations of the metadata. If no match between a matching media selection and a media article is found at step the central controller may store only the matching media selections at step for later use in the process . However if a match is found at step the matching media selections the associated content providers and the matching media articles can be stored at step for later use in the process .

Referring back to following the search of the metadata database at step the availability of matching media articles can be determined at step by the central controller . An embodiment of step in the process is shown in . At step the geographic location from where the search request originated from can be determined. This geographic location may be determined based on the IP address MAC address or digital certificate identifier of A V display interface for example. If the IP address is used the IP address may be mapped to the geographic location in an address database or other database as described above. If the MAC address or digital certificate identifier is used a customer profile that is associated with the MAC address or digital certificate identifier may be retrieved from the customer profile database for example. Information in the customer profile may then be used as the geographic location determined at step .

Regardless of whether an IP address MAC address digital certificate identifier or other personally identifying information is used the geographic location determined at step may include an address a zip code a neighborhood or other geographic identifier. At step a proximity limit may be received that can limit the search for locations of the article dispensing machines around the geographic location determined at step . The proximity limit may be received from a user or may be a predetermined default proximity limit or radius. The proximity limit may include a mile radius a kilometer radius or other limit. Based on the geographic location from where the search request originated at step and the proximity limit received at step the article dispensing machines that are located within the proximity limit may be determined at step .

The geographic location determined at step and or the proximity limit received at step may be used to modify a user interface of an application executing on the A V display interface at step . For example the user interface can be modified to show popular rentable media articles by other users or customers in an area within the proximity limit of the geographic location themed user interface information or media articles related to the area within the proximity limit of the geographic location and other modifications.

At step the inventory database can be queried to determine whether the matching media articles are available at the locations of the article dispensing machines found at step . If the matching media articles are available at one or more article dispensing machines at step then at step the locations of those article dispensing machines can be stored for later use in the process . However if the matching media articles are not available at any article dispensing machine at step then no available locations can be stored at step .

Returning to following step associated content providers for matching media selections may be determined at step . A preferred embodiment of step in the process is shown in . At step a unique customer identifier may be received by the central controller . The central controller can match the unique customer identifier to a particular customer profile in the customer profile database . The unique customer identifier could be a credit or debit card number processed through a hash function. The hashed credit or debit card number can be used to look up a customer profile in the customer profile database . The unique customer identifier may also include a customer provided identification of the associated content provider. The customer could also provide what content providers they are associated with and optionally provide the specific subscription package they subscribe to instead of providing a credit card number or account number.

If the unique customer identifier is present in the customer profile database at step then the process continues to step . At step the central controller can determine whether there is an associated content provider linked to the customer profile found at step . The customer profile in the customer profile database may contain a linkage to an associated content provider. If there is not a content provider associated with the customer profile at step or if no unique customer identifier is found in the customer profile database at step the customer may provide the linkages of content providers at step . The customer profile in the customer profile database can include information obtained from the content provider customer profile database in the content provider backend such as an account number email address subscription information and other information related to the customer s content provider customer profile.

If there is a content provider associated with the customer identifier at step the process continues to step where subscription information at the content provider for the customer is retrieved from the customer profile database . The customer profile database may contain subscription and entitlement information that was previously received from the content provider customer profile database in the content provider backend . Subscription information at the content provider can include the customer s subscribed service package premium channel content the customer entitled to access zip code and address for possible geographical content restrictions parental authorization and controls for age authentication and other subscriber information. The subscription information may be used by the central controller at step when determining the availability of matching media selections for the customer at particular content providers. Step is also performed following step when a customer has entered a linkage to a content provider.

Following step in the availability of matching media selections can be determined at step . An embodiment of step in the process is shown in . At step the matching media selections associated content providers and subscription information may be accessed. This information may have been supplied and stored previously at step and in particular steps and . At step the central controller determines whether the matching media selections are available at a content provider that is linked to the customer. In addition to determining whether the matching media selections are available at a linked content provider the central controller can determine at step whether the customer has permission to access the matching media selection based on the subscription information in the customer profile database that was previously obtained at step .

A customer may be entitled to access a digital matching media selection for free such as when the matching media selection is already available within the customer s subscription package or when the matching media selection is publicly available. In other cases a customer may only have access to a matching media selection by providing additional payment such as when the customer s subscription package does not allow access to the matching media selection or when the matching media selection is only available at an a la carte content provider. For example if the customer s subscription package allows access to Home Box Office HBO content and the matching media selection is available through HBO then the customer will have access to the matching media selection without additional payment. As another example if the customer s subscription package only allows access to Showtime content and the matching media selection is only available through HBO then the customer will not have access to the matching media selection. In this case the customer may have the option to upgrade their subscription package to include HBO or utilize an a la carte content provider for an additional payment. As a further example if the customer is a Comcast subscriber and the matching media selection is available as a free video on demand selection on Comcast then the customer will have access to the matching media selection without additional payment. However if the matching media selection is only available through Hulu Plus then the customer will not have access to the matching media selection unless the customer provides additional payment.

If the matching media selection is available at a linked content provider at step the process continues to step to determine the device applicability of the matching media selection. A matching media selection may be available in one or more formats depending on the technical details of the matching media selection such as version video quality and audio quality. If the A V display interface that is to display the matching media selection does not support the technical details of the matching media selection then the matching media selection may be removed from the search result set. For example the matching media selection may only be available in 1080p high definition resolution. If the A V display interface cannot display 1080p resolution then the A V display interface does not support display of the matching media selection and the matching media selection can be removed from the search result set. As another example the matching media selection may be available in 5.1 channel audio format and in mono audio format. If the A V display interface only supports mono audio format then the matching media selection in 5.1 channel audio format can be removed from the search result set. However the matching media selection in mono audio format can remain in the search result set. By determining the device applicability of the matching media selection at step only the applicable and appropriate matching media selections will be included in the search result set provided by the process . At step the applicable matching media selections and associated content providers can be stored for later use in the process .

If the matching media selection is not available at a linked content provider at step then the central controller can obtain other content provider options if any at step . Other content provider options may include a la carte content providers such as Amazon Instant Video iTunes Store YouTube VUDU and other services that allow a user to individually purchase media without requiring a subscription. Further content provider options that may be obtained at step include retailers that grant rights to a digital media selection in conjunction with the purchase of a physical item e.g. Best Buy Walmart etc. movie studios television networks video game developers and online gaming delivery services Xbox Live PlayStation Network OnLive etc. . For example a video game may be available from an online gaming delivery service for download such as from Xbox Live or the PlayStation Network or for streaming such as from OnLive. If other content providers are available for the matching media selection the process can also continue to step to determine the device applicability of the matching media selection as described above. At step the matching media selections and a la carte content providers can be stored for later use in the process .

Returning to the available matching media articles from step and the available matching media selections from step can be ordered at step . The filtering at step may include ordering or ranking of the matching media articles and matching media selections as described earlier by criteria such as price version video quality audio quality availability release date and or other factors such as by metadata. Furthermore one or more recommendations for the best viewing options may be provided to the user based on the criteria. For example the best viewing options may include recommending the piece of media content that has the lowest price and the best video quality. As another example the best viewing options may include recommending the piece of media content with high definition video quality that will be available in a week coming soon such as a Blu Ray disc as compared to another piece of media content that has standard definition video quality and is available now such as a streaming video in 480p resolution.

Following step the search result set can be provided at step . For example the search result set may be transmitted to the A V display interface for display to the user who initiated the search request. The search result set may include matching media articles that are available at article dispensing machines closest to the location where the search request originated. The search result set may also include matching media selections that are available at associated content providers and that are accessible based on the subscription package of a user. The user may also be shown options to access the matching media articles in the search result set and the matching media selections and commence a transaction. For example options may be displayed for renting reserving or pre reserving a matching media article at the article dispensing machine . Further options may be displayed for viewing downloading saving or queuing a matching media selection at the associated content provider.

Payment options related to the matching media articles and matching media selections in the search result set may also be displayed at step . The payment options may be dependent on the subscription information obtained at step or the a la carte content providers obtained at step . The payment options can include whether the matching media selection is free to the customer is free to the customer because of their subscription service package with a content provider or will cost a particular price or number of credits. In one embodiment the price for the matching media selection may be discounted to the customer compared to the retail price. In another embodiment the customer may also redeem a promotion code to gain access to the matching media selection. In a further embodiment the payment option may include the opportunity to upgrade to a higher level service package which includes access to the matching media selection. The customer may pay for the matching media article and matching media selection using a credit card redeeming credits or promotion codes charging the price to their account at the content provider or using other payment methods.

At step and corresponding step of a transaction request may be received by the central controller following the provision of the search result set at step . As discussed above the transaction request may be related to the matching media article or the matching media selection. At step it is determined whether the transaction in the transaction request is related to the matching media article or the matching media selection. If the transaction is related to the matching media article then the process continues to step . At step it is determined whether the matching media article has been released. Whether a media article has been released can be determined from information stored in the metadata database the inventory database or from other sources. Media articles that are leaving soon from an article dispensing machine or from a content provider may be considered released since they are currently available to access. If the matching media article has been released then the matching media article can be reserved for later pickup at an article dispensing machine at step . However if the matching media article is determined to not have been released at step then the matching media article may be pre reserved for pickup after it has been released at step . Media articles that are coming soon to an article dispensing machine or content provider may be considered unreleased since they are not currently available to access.

Returning to step if the transaction request is related to the matching media selection then the process continues to step . At step it is determined whether additional payment is needed to access the matching media selection. This may occur for example when a user s particular subscription package does not currently include access to a matching media selection but where the user could access the matching media selection by upgrading to a premium subscription package. As another example additional payment may be needed if the matching media selection is available from an a la carte content provider that requires payment for individual purchases. If additional payment is needed at step then the additional payment may be received at step . The additional payment received at step may include for example a credit card charge charging the payment to a customer account at the content provider redeeming credits or promotion codes or other payment methods. Access to the matching media selection can be granted at step following the receipt of the additional payment at step . If additional payment is not needed at step access to the matching media selection can also be granted at step .

Information regarding access to the matching media selection may be delivered to a user via email SMS mobile consumer electronics device application alert or other communication. In one embodiment an email SMS mobile consumer electronics device application alert or other communication may be sent to the customer with a uniform resource locator URL link to view the matching media selection. In another embodiment a QR code representing a URL link to view the matching media selection may be displayed to the customer. In another embodiment an email SMS mobile consumer electronics device application alert or other communication may be sent to the customer with details on how to view the matching media selection such as instructions about how to access a video on demand title on an A V display interface . In another embodiment the matching media selection can be queued on the saved programs queue on the A V display interface so that an application on the A V display interface can notify the customer of the availability of the matching media selection when the application is executed.

Any process descriptions or blocks in figures should be understood as representing modules segments or portions of code which include one or more executable instructions for implementing specific logical functions or steps in the process and alternate implementations are included within the scope of the embodiments of the present invention in which functions may be executed out of order from that shown or discussed including substantially concurrently or in reverse order depending on the functionality involved as would be understood by those having ordinary skill in the art.

It should be emphasized that the above described embodiments of the present invention are possible examples of implementations merely set forth for a clear understanding of the principles of the invention. Many variations and modifications may be made to the above described embodiment s of the invention without substantially departing from the spirit and principles of the invention. All such modifications are intended to be included herein within the scope of this disclosure and the present invention and protected by the following claims.

