---

title: Electronic system for selecting the best card from a collection of consumer credit, debit and discount cards
abstract: A method, system and computer program product for enabling completion of purchase transactions by retrieving purchase card information from an electronic database of consumer cards and applying the appropriate card to the transaction. The database, managed by a central card authority, stores client account information for cards such as debit, credit, phone, and discount cards, which are accessible via a unique, secure login/access credential, such as a username and password combination. During registration with the central card authority, a client classifies key/important factors to consider when performing purchases. The central card authority is accessed by the client during purchases from a retail facility and/or other purchasing environment. The central card authority automatically selects the best card to utilize during a purchase, after weighing the important purchasing factors related to the credit, debit, phone, and discount cards registered with the central card authority.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08626655&OS=08626655&RS=08626655
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 08626655
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120509
---
The present application is a divisional of and claims priority from U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 936 111 filed on Nov. 7 2007 titled Electronic System for Selecting the Best Card from a Collection of Consumer Credit Debit and Discount Cards. The content of that application is incorporated by reference herein.

The present invention generally relates to computer systems and in particular to a computer system and associated electronic database for completing consumer transactions.

Each day billions of dollars are spent in retail purchases. Department stores gas stations online retailers and grocery stores are primary recipients of these consumer dollars. Recently perhaps due to personal convenience safety and security a large number of consumers have transitioned away from or reduced their use of cash to conduct retail purchases and have increased their use of credit cards and debit cards. Many of these consumers have and utilize multiple different cards in the various retail environments in which these cards may be utilized. These consumers must often juggle the large number of cards and indiscriminately select one card to utilize. Oftentimes the consumer s selection of a particular card may be made with the consumer completely unaware of the annual percentage rate APR monthly interest rates reward point accumulation available credit credit limit and or checking account balance if using a debit card associated with the card s being utilized. Credit cards vary in the interest rate and available credit. Inadvertently spending over the available credit limit or making major purchases with a high interest rate card may be detrimental to the consumer s credit rating or extremely costly in the near future.

In addition to the increased use of credit and debit cards discount cards and or store cards are often offered to attract consumers. When utilizing discount cards the consumer may receive promotional prices frequent shopper points and or coupons for future purchases. Discount cards also known as shopping store cards are distributed by a range of stores such as cosmetic stores pet stores grocery stores whole food stores etc. Similar to credit cards discount cards are often small plastic cards issued by the retailer and much like regular credit and debit cards these discount cards are often utilized with the consumer being unaware of specific characteristics of the card which may be helpful when determining whether or not to utilize the card to complete a retail transaction.

There are several problems associated with or that may arise from the use of credit debit and discount cards. For example consumers typically carry a large number of their credit debit and discount cards with them which makes for a cumbersome wallet purse. Carrying multiple cards may increase the possibility that a consumer may utilize the wrong card leading to higher interest rates on purchases or perhaps a fee for going over the credit limit. Additionally carrying credit cards and discount cards on one s person makes the cards more likely to be lost or stolen providing an opportunity for person finding or stealing the card to make unauthorized purchases until the loss theft is discovered and reported by the consumer. Further once the loss theft occurs the consumer is left without a mechanism to make purchases particularly when the consumer does not have any cash or access to a bank account. Also carrying multiple cards may increase the chance of losing one of the cards without realizing that the card has been lost or misplaced. Again when a card is misplaced or lost without the knowledge of the consumer the card may be found and utilized by an unauthorized party.

Disclosed are a method system and computer program product for enabling completion of financial purchase transactions by retrieving purchase card information from an electronic database of consumer cards and applying the appropriate card to the transaction. The database managed by a central card authority stores client account information for cards such as debit credit phone and discount cards which are accessible via a unique secure login access credential such as a username and password combination. During registration with the central card authority a client e.g. a card owner classifies key important factors to consider when performing purchases. The central card authority is accessed by the client during purchases from a retail facility and or other purchasing environment e.g. the Internet doctor s office movie theatre etc. . The central card authority automatically selects the best card to utilize during a purchase after weighing the important purchasing factors related to the credit debit phone and discount cards registered with the central card authority.

In one embodiment a consumer s credit debit and discount cards are registered with the central card authority. A questionnaire is completed which allows the consumer to select the most important factors for consideration during credit card use ranging from least importance to greatest importance. For instance the consumer may select the credit card interest rate as the most important factor in card usage while the consumer selects the accumulation of reward points as the least important factor in card usage.

In one embodiment the consumer utilizes a form of identification identification card finger print pin number etc. that is required to access the consumer database and retrieve card information from the database. The consumer database may exist on a server controlled by the central card authority. When completing a purchase transaction the consumer submits the unique credential information as the consumer s identification to a local computer system and the local computer system then retrieves the credit or debit card information from the central card authority server. A software application executing at the server automatically selects the best card for the purchase according to information previously submitted.

In one embodiment the consumer has the option of overriding the use of the card selected by the card authority. When the consumer is presented the best card for utilization during the purchase in progress the consumer may refuse to utilize the card and select a different purchasing card from the cards that have been previously registered with the central card authority. Each of the relevant cards credit debit phone discount etc. registered with the central card authority by the customer are displayed within a graphical user interface. The customer may then select from among the displayed cards overriding the automatically selected purchasing card.

The above as well as additional objectives features and advantages of the present invention will become apparent in the following detailed written description.

The illustrative embodiments provide a method system and computer program product for enabling completion of financial purchase transactions by retrieving purchase card information from an electronic database of consumer cards and applying the appropriate card to the transaction. The database managed by a central card authority stores client account information for cards such as debit credit phone and discount cards which are accessible via a unique secure login access credential such as a username and password combination. During registration with the central card authority a client e.g. a card owner classifies key important factors to consider when performing purchases. The central card authority is accessed by the client during purchases from a retail facility and or other purchasing environment e.g. the Internet doctor s office movie theatre etc. . The central card authority automatically selects the best card to utilize during a purchase after weighing the important purchasing factors related to the credit debit phone and discount cards registered with the central card authority.

In the following detailed description of exemplary embodiments of the invention specific exemplary embodiments in which the invention may be practiced are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the invention and it is to be understood that other embodiments may be utilized and that logical architectural programmatic mechanical electrical and other changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the present invention. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of the present invention is defined only by the appended claims.

Within the descriptions of the figures similar elements are provided similar names and reference numerals as those of the previous figure s . Where a later figure utilizes the element in a different context or with different functionality the element is provided a different leading numeral representative of the figure number e.g. 1xx for and 2xx for . The specific numerals assigned to the elements are provided solely to aid in the description and not meant to imply any limitations structural or functional on the invention.

It is understood that the use of specific component device and or parameter names are for example only and not meant to imply any limitations on the invention. The invention may thus be implemented with different nomenclature terminology utilized to describe the components devices parameters herein without limitation. Each term utilized herein is to be given its broadest interpretation given the context in which that terms is utilized.

With reference now to the figures depicts a block diagram representation of a data processing system and connected network which may provide the functionality of a central card authority or a client device utilized to access the central card authority depending on the software being executed thereon. Data processing system DPS comprises at least one processor or central processing unit CPU connected to system memory via system interconnect bus . Also connected to system bus is I O controller which provides connectivity and control for input devices of which pointing device or mouse and keyboard are illustrated and output devices of which display is illustrated. Additionally a multimedia drive e.g. CDRW or DVD drive and USB universal serial bus hub are illustrated coupled to I O controller . Multimedia drive and USB hub may operate as both input and output storage mechanisms.

DPS also comprises storage within which data instructions code may be stored. Database is maintained within storage . In one embodiment database may be a separate device that is not associated with storage . DPS is also illustrated with a network interface device NID with which DPS connects to one or more servers or distributed client devices via an access network such as the Internet. Network may provide connection to distributed client devices which may be individual location fixed or portable computer devices utilized to register consumers to central card authority or manage consumer accounts hosted at the central card authority or access consumer information at the central card authority during a purchasing transaction.

In the described embodiments network may be a worldwide collection of networks and gateways that utilize the Transmission Control Protocol Internet Protocol TCP IP suite of protocols to communicate with one another. Of course network access may also be provided via a number of different types of networks such as an intranet a local area network LAN a virtual private network VPN or other wide area network WAN other than the Internet for example.

Notably in addition to the above described hardware components of DPS various features of the invention are completed via software or firmware code or logic stored within system memory or other storage e.g. storage and executed by CPU . Thus illustrated within memory are a number of software firmware components including operating system OS e.g. Microsoft Windows a trademark of Microsoft Corp GNU Linux registered trademarks of the Free Software Foundation and The Linux Mark Institute or Advanced Interactive Executive AIX a registered trademark of IBM applications and customer card selection CCS utility . In actual implementation applications and CCS utility may be combined as a single application collectively providing the various functions of each individual software component when the corresponding code is executed by the CPU . For simplicity CCS utility is illustrated and described as a stand alone or separate software firmware component which provides specific functions as described below.

CPU executes CCS utility as well as OS which supports the user interface features of CCS utility . In the illustrative embodiment CCS utility generates provides several graphical user interfaces GUI to enable user interaction with or manipulation of the functional features of the utility . Among the software code instructions provided by CCS utility and which are specific to the invention are a code for creating and maintaining a database of consumer card information linked to a central card authority b code for enabling consumer setup and or update of user accounts with unique login credential data and relevant card selection information c code for receiving requests for completing a financial transaction e.g. purchasing using the central card authority d code for authenticating a customer and retrieving relevant customer information to select a best card for completing the financial transaction e code for finalizing purchases utilizing the central card authority f code for activating a distress call response. For simplicity of the description the collective body of code that enables these various features is referred to herein as CCS utility . According to the illustrative embodiment when CPU executes CCS utility DPS initiates a series of functional processes that enable the above functional features as well as additional features functionality which are described below within the description of .

As further provided herein certain features of the invention are implemented at a server level central card authority that is accessed by local customer devices such as in a retail establishment via a network such as the internet. These local customer devices support the user interface features by which the consumer interacts with the central card authority. Alternatively in one embodiment the central card authority is a local server or computer that displays a user interface that is generated by the local execution of CCS utility on the server computer.

Those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that the hardware and basic configuration depicted in may vary. For example other devices components may be used in addition to or in place of the hardware depicted. The depicted example is not meant to imply architectural limitations with respect to the present invention. The data processing system depicted in may be for example an IBM eServer pSeries system a product of International Business Machines Corporation in Armonk N.Y. running the AIX operating system or LINUX operating system.

With reference now to there is illustrated a network having a plurality of network connected servers including central card authority server retail server and local server each connected to Internet . Several distributed computer systems may exist in network including client computer client laptop and retail computer as well as network computers . Customer ID recognition unit is linked to client computers and network computers . Customer ID recognition unit may be connected via an external connection point such as an application programming interface API . The API permits a small hand held scanner such as customer ID recognition unit to be plugged in or wirelessly linked to client computers and network computers . Network also includes portable handheld computer such as a Palm Pilot manufactured by 3 Com or a smart phone which may be linked to local server . Customer ID recognition unit may also be connected to a portable device such as client laptop and or portable handheld computer .

In one embodiment central card authority server may exist at the credit card authority company site. At the credit card authority site a computer similar to DPS is utilized to register consumers and the consumer s credit card information is entered into a database . Database of central card authority server operates as the primary storage location for the database of the consumer s card information and other information utilized in selecting a best card for use in a particular environment.

Retail server may retrieve information from central card authority server via Internet when requested by a customer. Retail server is located within a retail environment such as a department store grocery store etc. in which customers purchase items. Retail environments contain retail computer and or network computers which are computerized purchasing registers. Retail computer and network computers may be equipped with customer ID recognition unit for accessing a customer s credit debit phone and or discount card information or for triggering a distress call.

In one embodiment a customer is identified utilizing customer ID recognition unit connected to retail computer . Retail computer receives the authorized credential and or identification of the customer such as a fingerprint scan card pin number and identifier ID and password combination input for example obtained via customer ID recognition unit . The customer identification and or credential is transmitted to retail server and then forwarded to main network server . When the customer s identification is verified the requested information is downloaded to retail server . A GUI is dynamically displayed on customer ID recognition unit . The GUI allows the customer to utilize the credit card or other payment method automatically selected by the credit card authority i.e. CCS utility or to select another card that is registered with the customer s identification in the central card authority database.

As illustrated local server may obtain access to central card authority server via Internet . In one embodiment client computer client laptop and or portable handheld device are utilized to access central card authority server via local server and Internet to upload customer information. When shopping in a web based retail environment Internet displays a secure website for purchasing items. A web browser GUI provided by central card authority server of the central card authority is displayed. The customer may enter a form of identification and or password to obtain access to the purchasing information on the database of central card authority server . Following validation of the entered identification the customer gains access to the customer profile linked to the entered identification. A card which is selected by the central card authority according to information provided by the customer via a registration and update process described below is displayed on customer ID recognition unit . The customer may then utilize the selected card or override the automated selection as described below.

In one embodiment a client registers online with a central card authority or registers at a central card authority site. When registering the client completes the fields of name entry card account entry user ID entry and password entry . Card account entry allows a client to input information regarding the purchasing card or discount card that will link the central card authority system to the card company. CCS utility is then capable of tracking interest rates credit limits available credit reward points current account balance and other information associated with the specific card s . Tracking account information allows CCS utility to consider each of these factors when automatically selecting the best card to utilize for customer purchases.

In one embodiment to automatically select the best card for completing a purchase CCS utility makes a number of comparisons. The comparisons are dependent on the client classification of card factors . In the illustrative embodiment the client orders card factors from least important to most important from consumer card selection GUI . For each purchase or financial transaction that utilizes the central card authority CCS utility analyzes the classified factors for each purchasing card and makes the best selection based on the analysis of ordered card factors . Other factors or classification techniques may be provided in other embodiments and the classifications may be ties to the type of financial transaction that is being undertaken at the time. For example a credit card may be selected above a debit card at a doctor s office. Also a first debit credit card is selected at a particular retailer e.g. AMEX card at COSTCO and a second debit credit card is selected at a cash disbursement machine perhaps one without fees for cash withdrawal transactions .

Cards registered with the central card authority may be utilized to make purchases withdraw money apply discounts and other such transactions. illustrates one embodiment in which CCS purchasing GUI provides a selection of best card i.e. the card that is dynamically selected by CCS utility from among the multiple additional cards . CCS purchasing GUI also comprises selections override proceed and cancel . Within CCS purchasing GUI credit card override card panic card discount card store card and second credit card may be selected during a purchase if override is engaged by the client. In one embodiment discount card is displayed with a shaded background illustrating the discount is automatically applied unless otherwise instructed by the client.

In one embodiment best card is automatically selected by CCS utility . Override is engaged by the client to overrule the card selection. After override is engaged the client may manually select the card of preference. Each card registered with the card authority is displayed however only the card name is displayed to identify the card. In one embodiment panic card may be selected to dynamically alert the police or security authorities when a client is in a panic situation such as when being forced to make a purchase or withdraw money. After the card of interest has been selected proceed may be engaged to continue the purchasing process.

The process of begins at initiator block and proceeds to block at which the consumer registration is initiated. Initiating consumer registration with the central card authority may consist of displaying a GUI such as consumer card selection GUI . At block the client s name user ID and password are received by CCS utility . Card information such as account number and account information is inputted for each card to be available through the central card authority at block . At block the classification of important factors to consider is received. Prior to storing the client registration information the client data is protected at block possibly through encryption. The information is then stored on a customer database at block . The customer database is linked to a central server central card authority server at block to be accessed by the client during purchasing. The process ends at block .

The flow chart begins with block where an attempt is made to access the central card authority server. The user s login credentials e.g. user ID and password are received at block . Before access to a client s account is granted the user ID and password is validated. Therefore a decision is made at block whether the user ID and password entered are valid. If the user ID and password are not valid the process returns to block where the user ID and password may be re entered or blocked after a certain number of tries to protect the customer database against forced cracking via trial and error. If the user ID and password are valid the process continues to block . At block the customer information is retrieved from the central card authority server.

After accessing the customer information from the central card authority server at block the customer s purchasing information is linked with the retail store or retail environment at block . Linking the customer information with the retail store or retail environment is necessary in case a particular card should not be utilized with a particular store or environment or if discounts are available at the retail store through a customer s stored discount cards. At block a decision is made whether a discount card is available within the customer s account at the central card authority server . If the discount card is available the discount card is applied. Otherwise the process continues to as indicated at block .

The process of begins at block . At block the automated purchasing card selection is performed by CCS utility on the central card authority server. The selected purchasing card is displayed at block within CCS purchasing GUI . A decision is made at block whether the customer selects the option to proceed with the purchasing process. If an input is received to proceed the purchase is completed at block . If an input is not received to proceed a decision is made at block whether the user has selected the override option to override the choice for best purchasing card made by CCS utility . If a decision to override is not received then a decision is made at block whether to cancel the transaction. If the decision to cancel is selected the process is cancelled at block and the process ends at block .

If the decision to cancel is not selected the graphical user interface continues to display the account information. However the account access may time out after an specified period of time has elapsed without user input.

If an input is received to override the automated purchasing card selection then the process continues to block at which a manual card selection is received. At block a decision is made whether the manual card selection received is a panic card. If the card selection received at block is a panic card the CCS utility triggers the generation of an alert at block . In one embodiment the alert is forwarded to pre programmed authorities retail security team police etc. who are alerted of the location of the panic card selection customer name and other relevant information. If a panic card is not selected the process continues to block where the purchase is completed utilizing the card selected. Then the process ends at block .

In the flow charts above one or more of the methods are embodied in a computer readable medium containing computer readable code such that a series of steps are performed when the computer readable code is executed on a computing device. In some implementations certain steps of the methods are combined performed simultaneously or in a different order or perhaps omitted without deviating from the spirit and scope of the invention. Thus while the method steps are described and illustrated in a particular sequence use of a specific sequence of steps is not meant to imply any limitations on the invention. Changes may be made with regards to the sequence of steps without departing from the spirit or scope of the present invention. Use of a particular sequence is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of the present invention is defined only by the appended claims.

As will be further appreciated the processes in embodiments of the present invention may be implemented using any combination of software firmware or hardware. As a preparatory step to practicing the invention in software the programming code whether software or firmware will typically be stored in one or more machine readable storage devices such as fixed hard drives diskettes optical disks magnetic tape semiconductor memories such as ROMs PROMs etc. thereby making an article of manufacture in accordance with the invention. The article of manufacture containing the programming code is used by either executing the code directly from the storage device by copying the code from the storage device into another storage device such as a hard disk RAM etc. or by transmitting the code for remote execution using transmission type media such as digital and analog communication links. The methods of the invention may be practiced by combining one or more machine readable storage devices containing the code according to the present invention with appropriate processing hardware to execute the code contained therein. An apparatus for practicing the invention could be one or more processing devices and storage systems containing or having network access to program s coded in accordance with the invention.

Thus it is important that while an illustrative embodiment of the present invention is described in the context of a fully functional computer server system with installed or executed software those skilled in the art will appreciate that the software aspects of an illustrative embodiment of the present invention are capable of being distributed as a program product in a variety of forms and that an illustrative embodiment of the present invention applies equally regardless of the particular type of media used to actually carry out the distribution. By way of example a non exclusive list of types of media includes recordable type tangible media such as floppy disks thumb drives hard disk drives CD ROMs DVDs and transmission type media such as digital and analogue communication links.

While the invention has been described with reference to exemplary embodiments it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes may be made and equivalents may be substituted for elements thereof without departing from the scope of the invention. In addition many modifications may be made to adapt a particular system device or component thereof to the teachings of the invention without departing from the essential scope thereof. Therefore it is intended that the invention not be limited to the particular embodiments disclosed for carrying out this invention but that the invention will include all embodiments falling within the scope of the appended claims. Moreover the use of the terms first second etc. do not denote any order or importance but rather the terms first second etc. are used to distinguish one element from another.

