---

title: Method and system for generating emergency notifications based on aggregate event data
abstract: An approach for enabling event notifications to be directed to one or more contacts based on the acquiring of common event data by one or more wireless devices is described. A multimedia event processor receives event data corresponding to an event from a mobile device. The event data is associated with a tag for describing the event data and classified as corresponding to a level of severity based on the tag. A target destination is then determined for transmission of a notification message, the event data, or a combination thereof.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09147336&OS=09147336&RS=09147336
owner: Verizon Patent and Licensing Inc.
number: 09147336
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120229
---
Modern telecommunications services particularly wireless mobile communication devices have proved to be effective public safety tools. For instance during emergencies these devices e.g. smartphones are indispensable for contacting the appropriate people or authorities. In addition such devices can be useful for acquiring audio video or other multimedia or textual data related to the emergency event by way of integrated capture tools such as cameras video and audio recorders keyboards etc. By way of example when a vehicle accident occurs at a busy thoroughfare some device users at or near the scene of the accident may capture a video of the accident using a video recorder at their device. Others at or near the scene may snap pictures using an integrated camera or post messages regarding the event to a social networking site. Unfortunately such data remains isolated to the users.

Based on the foregoing there is a need for enabling event notifications to be directed to one or more emergency contacts based on the acquiring of common event data by one or more wireless devices.

An apparatus method and software for enabling event notifications to be directed to one or more emergency contacts based on the acquiring of common event data by one or more wireless devices is described. In the following description for the purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. It is apparent however to one skilled in the art that the present invention may be practiced without these specific details or with an equivalent arrangement. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the present invention.

Although the various exemplary embodiments are described with respect to emergency notifications it is contemplated that these embodiments have applicability to any data protocols methodologies or systems for generating alerts alarms emergency broadcasts communication signals and the like. Furthermore while the exemplary embodiments are described from the perspective of high priority events such as those requiring some form of emergency response it is contemplated these embodiments have applicability to non emergency events as well. This includes for example social events community events business events special occasions and the like.

Event data may include for example any data sensed acquired or otherwise captured by a capture tool of a given user device in relation to or at a point in time of occurrence of a given event. Capture tools available to respective user devices include for example integrated camera devices audio recorders video recorders GPS accelerometers compasses gyros proximity sensors barometers keyboards and terminals or any other devices for activating the various sensory input mechanisms of the device . As a result event data is acquired or sensed as audio data video data GPS data light data motion data image data textual data orientation data barometric data or a combination thereof.

User devices featuring the above described capture tools have become the default means of recording and capturing event data. Mobile devices such as cell phones and tablet computers for example have become a viable alternative to standalone tape recorders cameras and camcorders. This is attributable to the portability network access capability and ease of use of the user devices over bulky individual equipment. At any given moment these devices allow users to quickly record data regarding events occurring in their proximity including emergency and non emergency events. This data may then be subsequently shared with friends by way of e mail mobile application or short simple messaging e.g. SMS or MMS posted to various websites uploaded to a cloud based data stores etc. via transmission over a service provider network . This capability is especially useful in supporting the capture of event data related to high priority situations such as accidents crime natural disasters political and social occurrences e.g. protests and unrest etc.

Typically high priority events including those requiring the aid of emergency responders e.g. police military and fire safety are captured by disparate device users from different vantage points. By way of example a hostage situation unfolding in a shopping mall may be captured on video by multiple different users dispersed throughout the mall while other users positioned elsewhere but within view snap pictures as the hostage event unfolds. Each of the individual device users capture information that is useful for providing details regarding the occurrence. Unfortunately there is currently no coordinated system for enabling coordinated aggregation of data as captured by disparate users relative to a common event. Consequently emergency service providers are limited in their ability to be promptly notified of such events as they occur in real time.

To address this issue system presents a multimedia event processor that is configured to determine a correlation between captured event data and subsequently initiate a communication with one or more contacts based on the determined event type. The contacts may include one or more members of a community wherein the communication is directed to the various contacts en mass. Furthermore there is currently no means of automatically notifying emergency responders such as police or other contacts based on the aggregation of common event data. Alternatively the multimedia event processor may be directed to generate targeted communications to select one or more contacts related to a particular device user. In certain embodiments the communication may be established over a network such as service provider network for the purpose of transmitting a notification message placing of a phone or video call exchanging event data or a combination thereof. By way of example the notification message may include details regarding the event the event data location information pertaining to the event a request for action by the contact a distress signal or a combination thereof. Still further the notification message may be in the form of an alarm signal textual message graphic video vibration signal or the like.

Event types may include for example any information descriptor symbol or other data for representing the category name scheme or description to which the event pertains. In certain embodiments the event type is determined by the multimedia event processor based on the application of one or more data recognition techniques as performed in connection with one or more analytic processing models. Thus as event data is retrieved from user devices in audio video textual numeric or graphic form the multimedia event processor is configured to perform audio video textual numeric or image recognition processing respectively on the event data. One of more pattern detection heuristic analysis inference or deductive processing object matching ontological schemes and other analysis models are employed for directing the audio video image numeric or text recognition process the recognition being performed to render a determination as to a predetermined type to which the event data may be associated. It is noted that the predetermined types are extensible such that processor learns new patterns that can be classified and appear as a new type for example a group of people witnessing and capturing data such gathering may be classified e.g. as a coup a riot a demonstration etc. . Also the volume of event data submitted may trigger the event processor to determine whether the event is significant. However an event such as a car crash is significant in a different way from a movement yet both are likely to be captured and possibly treated differently by the processor .

By way of example in the aforementioned hostage event scenario image data representative of a gun may be submitted by way of a first user device that is equipped with a camera e.g. capture tool . The image data is queued or flagged as requiring processing by the multimedia event processor on the basis of an event trigger . The event trigger is a software and or hardware based button switch gesture mobile application determined e.g. sudden unusual movement detected by accelerometer indication signaled by a nearby mobile device or other command for alerting the multimedia event processor of incoming event data from the user device . Once transmitted the image data is then processed by the multimedia event processor based on one or more pattern object recognition techniques such that an object within the image corresponding to a type or category of GUN is identified. Furthermore audio signal data relating to the same event may be analyzed and compared against known sound data for determining that a given subset of the data corresponds to a gunshot. Again in this instance the audio signal may therefore also be labeled with respect to the type or category of GUN accordingly. It is noted therefore that the various event types may include for example a determined broad category or descriptor of an event or object related thereto a sub category of an event or object related thereto a specific object type a reference name or identifier a full description or definition and any other tag for characterizing the event data and or the event related thereto. Event type data is therefore associated with the event data as one or more tags and is stored as tagged event data by the multimedia event processor . In one embodiment event tagging can happen at multiple levels by device at event processor when received at processor as additional events and context are received either by other mobiles of from external sources like RSS feeds Internet breaking news etc. . It is contemplated that events can be tagged by the multimedia event processor and or the capture function on the mobile device . A hierarchical relationship can be defined such that the capture function of the device tags based on what the device knows while the multimedia event processor tags based on its collection of algorithms and then as correlation and aggregation takes place yet another opportunity to tag the events can occur because now the system is starting to understand and learn what is occurring.

To enable the appropriate storing of tagged event data the multimedia event processor is also configured to determine a correlation between the various event data as received from the user devices . This correlation process is performed at least in part on the basis of a match being identified between one or more tags associated with the event data a match being identified between relative context information associated with the event data or a combination thereof. User device may automatically tag event data e.g. include GPS coordinates and or facial recognition indicators with image data include voice recognition and or voice biometric indicators with audio data etc. . In certain embodiments the tags may also include or be associated with context information pertaining to the event data . By referencing the context information the event data as received by the multimedia event processor in various forms e.g. audio video textual from disparate data sources e.g. user devices may be catalogued stored in common.

By way of example in the above described hostage scenario context information pertaining to the image data and audio data tagged as GUN is further evaluated by the multimedia event processor to determine if a correlation exists between the commonly tagged data. This evaluation may include for example a comparison of location data position data motion data activity data time data environmental data and other types of context information. In the case of the hostage scenario this would include determining respective event data has common time and date information a shared location corresponding to the shopping mall etc. When a match is determined to exist between the context information of the different but commonly tagged event data i.e. to within a predetermined threshold the event data is deemed to correlate. Alternatively when context information for different event data is not determined to be within the predetermined threshold the event data is deemed to not correlate. By determining correlation the multimedia event processor is able to store common related event data in reference to one another while event data determined not to correlate is stored without reference to any other event data. In the latter case this corresponds to the cataloguing of original event data of an unknown type or that has no composite match with other event data to within the predetermined threshold. As will be discussed more fully later the process of correlating the event data enables the multimedia event processor to maintain distinct records of events for archiving knowledge base development reporting and event modeling purposes. In addition event data that is commonly tagged but related to distinctly different events is appropriately stored.

Context information may include for example any data for representing a location position orientation date time means of execution associated activity modality state etc. of an event the event data the one or more user devices a user of the respective user devices or a combination thereof. In certain embodiments context information feeds may also be flowing in to the multimedia event processor from various sources to help in establishing contexts within which to evaluate and tag events. For example knowledge that sports events are taking place in a particular geographical region is valuable but other events e.g. political events scheduled events of any kind and the like are also useful base level information that are accessible for event recognition and correlation. Also RSS feeds and the like can be utilized by the event processor .

The multimedia event processor is configured to analyze the context information relative to a given set of event data as a means of further characterizing an event. It is noted therefore that the context information may be employed in generating the one or more tags to be associated with a given event. In certain embodiments context information is generated or determined by a context module operable at the user devices . The context module controls the execution of various sensors of the device for acquiring context information including global positioning sensors network detection sensors gyroscopes motion detectors time sensors and other data acquisition devices. By way of these sensors the context module detects location information e.g. longitude and latitude geospatial coordinates building coordinate data device and or user position and or orientation information time zone time and date information network connectivity information e.g. IP Address network connection status location area identity user and or device profile information e.g. service subscriber key user identifier serial number or a combination thereof. Alternatively or additionally context information may be determined and or supplemented by information available from service provider network e.g. cell sector and or from the Internet e.g. social network information .

In certain embodiments the multimedia event processor is configured to determine a level of severity of the event data. For example in the above described hostage scenario heuristic data analysis and other processing of the image of the gun may be performed. Under this scenario when it is determined the images contain what appears to be a gun a level of severity of High Priority is assigned to this particular event data and other related event data. As another example when the image is determined to contain image data representative of fire smoke explosions etc. this also indicates a severity of High Priority. In the case of the sound data a determination that the sound data is an explosion gunshot cry for help etc. is also deemed of High Priority severity. Low priority severity may be assigned or correlated with event data deemed to be insignificant in scope inconsequential relative to the event data context information undeterminable etc. The level of severity may be determined and assigned to the event data or tagged event data in connection with the event data tagging process or as a further aspect of the correlation process.

As noted earlier level of severity or interest in a given event may also relate to the volume of data for a given geographic region for a given time range e.g. increased volume of video or photos showing up around the time of an earthquake or a major gathering either for a sports related event such as a championship celebration or a gathering related to a political uprising etc. . In one embodiment thresholds may be established and or learned over time to establish severity or pay attention criteria for a given series of events. For example a gun or a fire in a video or a photo may always be high priority and deserve attention whereas n photos e.g. 10 50 100 500 or videos emanating from a geographic region are likely to be of great interest.

It is noted therefore that the level of severity corresponds to a type of response action to be initiated or performed by the multimedia event processor relative to the event type. The response actions enabled by the multimedia event processor as it engages a user device on the basis of event data or tagged event data may be classified under various categories. These response actions are described by way of example with respect to TABLE 1 below 

The user of a device which is configured to interact with the processor may establish one or more policies for affecting performance of the above mentioned response actions. This may include the establishment of policies for affecting the routing and or sharing of messages based on event classification type and context the type and capabilities of the target notification device s user device capabilities network intelligence and capacity etc. The policy also enforces security and privacy settings as well including user selection of which personal or private information to share with a contact e.g. the police event data storage and history settings and knowledge base recording settings. The multimedia event processor may be configured to perform various anonymization techniques for processing the event data based on the policies.

It is noted that user devices may be any type of mobile terminal fixed terminal or portable terminal including a mobile handset station unit device multimedia computer multimedia tablet Internet node communicator desktop computer laptop computer Personal Digital Assistants PDAs smartphone wearable computer sensor or any combination thereof. It is also contemplated that the devices can support any type of interface for supporting the presentment or exchanging of data. In addition user devices may facilitate various input means for receiving and generating information including touch screen capability keyboard and keypad data entry cameras voice based input mechanisms and the like. Other implementations of user devices are applicable.

In certain embodiments user devices the multimedia event processor and other elements of system may be configured to communicate via a service provider network . According to certain embodiments one or more networks such as data network telephony network and or wireless network can interact with the service provider network . Networks may be any suitable wireline and or wireless network and be managed by one or more service providers. For example telephony network may include a circuit switched network such as the public switched telephone network PSTN an integrated services digital network ISDN a private branch exchange PBX or other like network. Wireless network may employ various technologies including for example code division multiple access CDMA long term evolution LTE enhanced data rates for global evolution EDGE general packet radio service GPRS mobile ad hoc network MANET global system for mobile communications GSM Internet protocol multimedia subsystem IMS universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS etc. as well as any other suitable wireless medium e.g. microwave access WiMAX wireless fidelity WiFi satellite and the like. Meanwhile data network may be any local area network LAN metropolitan area network MAN wide area network WAN the Internet or any other suitable packet switched network such as a commercially owned proprietary packet switched network such as a proprietary cable or fiber optic network.

Although depicted as separate entities networks may be completely or partially contained within one another or may embody one or more of the aforementioned infrastructures. For instance service provider network may embody circuit switched and or packet switched networks that include facilities to provide for transport of circuit switched and or packet based communications. It is further contemplated that networks may include components and facilities to provide for signaling and or bearer communications between the various components or facilities of system . In this manner networks may embody or include portions of a signaling system 7 SS7 network Internet protocol multimedia subsystem IMS or other suitable infrastructure to support control and signaling functions.

According to exemplary embodiments end user devices not shown may be utilized to communicate over system and may include any customer premise equipment CPE capable of sending and or receiving information over one or more of networks . For instance voice terminal may be any suitable plain old telephone service POTS device facsimile machine etc. whereas mobile device or terminal may be any cellular phone radiophone satellite phone smart phone wireless phone or any other suitable mobile device such as a personal digital assistant PDA pocket personal computer tablet customized hardware etc. Additionally CPE may include environmental sensors and or capture devices e.g. video surveillance cameras at the mall in the previous example that can provide additional data for use by multimedia event processor . Further computing device may be any suitable computing device such as a VoIP phone skinny client control protocol SCCP phone session initiation protocol SIP phone IP phone personal computer softphone workstation terminal server etc.

In addition the multimedia event processor also accesses tagged event data from a database for maintaining event data already tagged subject to analysis. A context database is also maintained for storing context information as provided by the various user devices in communication with the multimedia event processor . Also a resolution database is also maintained for storing logs regarding the response actions taken by one or more contacts in response to a given notification. Still further a profile database is maintained for storing one or more user profile settings privacy settings subscription information event management settings privacy and data sharing policies and other data for regulating execution of the multimedia event processor relative to a given user and or device. It is noted that data from databases may be further maintained or archived as part of a collective knowledge base. In certain embodiments the knowledge base may be analyzed for refining one or more models to be used for evaluating and responding to emergency high priority events.

In one embodiment an authentication module authenticates users and user devices for interaction with the multimedia event processor . By way of example the authentication module receives a request to subscribe to the multimedia event processor such as according to a service agreement for enabling automated event notifications to be generated based on event data. The subscription process may include the establishment of user preferred preferences including designated emergency contacts e.g. emergency responders individuals and communities groups mode of event notification e.g. SMS MMS Push Notification phone call video call personal information sharing policies etc. In the latter example this enables the user to maintain a level of anonymity and privacy when they share event data with authorities emergency responders community members or other contacts. The user preferences may also include various event notification settings including alarm intensity auto dial parameters workflow management settings etc.

The authentication process performed by the module may also include receiving and validating a login name and or user identification value as provided or established for a particular user during a subscription or registration process with the service provider. The login name and or user identification value may be received as input provided by the user from the user device or other device via a graphical user interface to the multimedia event processor e.g. as enabled by user interface module . Registration data for respective subscribers which contains pertinent user or device profile data may be cross referenced as part of the login process. Alternatively the login process may be performed through automated association of profile settings maintained as registration or profile data with an IP address a carrier detection signal of a user device mobile directory number MDN subscriber identity module SIM e.g. of a SIM card near field communication NFC identifier radio frequency identifier RFID tag or other identifier.

It is noted that the authentication module is configured to operate in conjunction with a policy management module . The policy management module is configured to render a policy configuration interface for supporting user adaptation of their various privacy data sharing and event management settings. Users may also select to opt in to receive event notifications from other users who have designated them as a contact or from the multimedia event processor when events the user may be interested in e.g. emergency events in close proximity to the user occur. This includes for example a group or community based opt in option for enabling event notifications to be directed to multiple users in common. Both the authentication module and policy management module are executed from the perspective of the senders of event data as well as recipients of event notifications. As such preferences settings and policy information may be referenced to a specific user user device or combination thereof and maintained as in connection with profile data

In one embodiment the tag assignment module associates one or more tags to event data as received from one or more user devices . Event data is conveyed to the tag assignment module by an aggregation module . Once received the tag assignment module generates the tags based on an analysis of the received event data such as by way of one or more image text sound or other data recognition techniques performed by a data analysis module . Tags are generated to represent an event type to which the event data relates or a description of one or more elements of the event data. By way of example an image depicting an erupting volcano may feature various tags including Ash Lava Volcano. Context information as provided by the user devices or in some instances as determined based on historical information for a given user may also inform the generation of tags. For example in the case of the erupting volcano additional tags may indicate the location of the occurrence a name associated with the event external or third party news feed data related to the image etc. As such an external data feeds module not shown can acquire other sources of information e.g. external information feeds to use to support the various recognition and correlation tasks. In essence knowledge base for the multimedia event processor can stem from external data feeds. The multimedia event processor can be creating or augmenting tags based on auxiliary data feeds from other sources to assist with recognizing events. For example a news feed may be confirming that a volcano did erupt at some location e.g. latitude longitude and date timestamp and thus all data flowing from that location and or at that time are candidates to be associated with that externally fed event .

It is noted that the data analysis module operates in connection with the tag assignment module to determine and assign tags that accurately represent the provided data. In one embodiment the data analysis module employs various pattern detection heuristic analysis inference or deductive processing object matching ontological schemes and other analysis models for directing the audio video image numeric or text recognition process. This execution is performed in connection with one or more models which may include for example data framework schemas mappings characteristic sets tables and other information for enabling the event to be recognized. The models may be based on historic data regarding an event type and is capable of refinement over time as additional data is aggregated by the aggregation module .

In one embodiment a classification module operates in connection with the tag assignment module to classify tagged event data. By way of example the classification module classifies the event according to a level of severity based on the one or more assigned tags. The severity level classification may include for example a High Priority or Low Priority classification. Low priority severity may be assigned or correlated with event data deemed to be insignificant in scope inconsequential relative to the event data context information undeterminable etc. High priority severity may be assigned or correlated with the event data when it is deemed to convey emergency events or episodes.

The classification module is also configured to anonymize the event data in accordance with one or more policies established by the user. As such the anonymization process may be coordinated with the authentication module . By way of example anonymization of the event data includes any techniques for obscuring important attributes functions or structures of the data. This includes for example details about the various device users that capture event data geographic and network location information organization names passwords and other personal information. In certain embodiments the classification module may employ techniques such as partial hiding random permutation prefix preserving permutation hashing etc.

In one embodiment a reporting module is configured to receive an event trigger alert signal from the one or more user devices by way a software and or hardware based event trigger e.g. panic button . Alternatively the event trigger may also include a signal for indicating a failure on the part of the user to respond to an emergency contact the multimedia event processor etc. In response to the signal the reporting module initiates the processing and analysis of event data received in connection with the sending device . In addition the module generates notification messages including text messages alert signals e mail communications phone calls video calls and other message types based on a determined level of severity of the event. The messages may be tailored to the specific contact to be notified e.g. Police ambulatory service provider spouse . Signals may also be generated by the module for triggering an alarm at the device an external alarm e.g. a car horn the activation of a device tracking signal for notifying a contact of the location of the device etc. It is noted by way of example that one or more operations of the reporting module correspond to the Intelligent Notification response action of TABLE 1.

The reporting module also triggers activation of a routing module . In one embodiment the routing module permits the multimedia event processor to route and direct notification messages to one or more user designated contacts based on the level of severity e.g. High Priority Low Priority etc. as assigned to a set of commonly tagged event data . Routing is performed based on event or recipient context information e.g. location activity type policy preferences e.g. preferred personal contact notification subscriptions with the multimedia event processor etc. The routing module also directs event data i.e. tagged event data for storage to a knowledge base. It is noted by way of example that one or more operations of the routing module correspond to the Intelligent Event Routing response action of TABLE 1.

The reporting module is also configured to receive resolution data from one or more contacts in response to the transmission of one or more event notifications. The resolution data includes any information for indicating a response by a designated contact to aggregated commonly tagged event data. This includes for example a determined non response a dispatch of an emergency responder placement of a call to a family member sending and or publishing of a notification to one or more contacts at a social network data for indicating a response time instructions provided to the user etc. As noted the resolution data or portions thereof may be added to a knowledge base for analysis by the provider of the multimedia event processor service the user or the various contacts for response improvement purposes defining more accurate event models etc.

In one embodiment a controller regulates the communication processes between the various other modules for enabling automated event notification and response. For example the controller module generates the appropriate signals to control the communication interface for facilitating transmission of event data resolution data and other information over the network e.g. service provider network . Also the controller permits the multimedia event processor and or a remote computing device to seize control of the user device that activated the event trigger. Control may be performed for example by an emergency responder e.g. emergency 911 operator in cases where the device user is incapacitated or unable to respond. By way of example one or more operations of controller correspond to the intelligent control response action of TABLE 1.

By way of example the controller also enables remote activation and control of various device sensors such as a GPS sensor various capture tools e.g. camera etc. Still further a keep alive and dead man switch may be activated on the basis of a user response failure or determined environmental context of the user e.g. a college student walking to their dorm late at night . In certain implementations the controller functions as a transceiver for enabling two way interaction between a designated controller and the user device relative to a communication interface .

In one embodiment a communication interface enables formation of a session over a network between the multimedia event processor and the capture tool at the user device. By way of example the communication interface executes various protocols and data sharing techniques for enabling collaborative execution between a subscriber s user device e.g. mobile devices laptops smartphones tablet computers desktop computers and the multimedia event processor over the network e.g. service provider network . By way of example the communication interface is configured to enable event data and subsequent resolution result data to be delivered via public or private networks. It is noted that the private network offers greater security and end user identity and privacy control while the public network can support communications with third party services such as social networks.

In one embodiment the user interface module enables presentment of a graphical user interface for presenting the service offering. By way of example the user interface module generates the interface in response to application programming interfaces APIs or other function calls corresponding to the browser application or web portal application of the user devices thus enabling the display of graphics primitives. Of note the browser session may support execution of multimedia playback in response to tagged event data.

The above presented modules and components of the multimedia event processor can be implemented in hardware firmware software or a combination thereof. Though depicted as a separate entity in it is contemplated that the processor may be implemented for direct operation by respective UEs . By way of example the one or more modules may be implemented for operation by respective user devices as a multi input processor or combination thereof. As such the multimedia event processor may generate direct signal inputs by way of the operating system of the UE for interacting with the capture tool event trigger and context module .

In step the multimedia event processor anonymizes the event data with respect to the mobile device and any associated user account. The anonymization may be performed in accordance with a privacy and or data sharing policy of the multimedia event processor. As noted the anonymization affects the routing and or sharing of messages based on event classification type and context the type and capabilities of the target notification device s user device capabilities network intelligence and capacity etc. The anonymization also restricts the sharing of personal or private information with a contact e.g. the police or a community at large. In certain embodiments the processor preserves the raw data i.e. securely maintained and anonymizes for distribution or reporting purposes.

Per step the multimedia event processor stores the anonymized event data among a plurality of anonymized event data. In another step the processor determines a target destination for transmission of a notification message and or the event data related thereto. The target destination may include for example a network location of a communication system of an emergency contact. A determination is made of which target destination to transmit a notification based on the classification and or the context data accordingly. For example a high priority classification may result in transmission of the event data to an emergency services provider while a low priority classification may be directed to a personal contact e.g. friend or various members of a community.

In step of process the multimedia event processor receives other event data corresponding to the event from another mobile device. This may include event data in addition to those from other mobile devices. That is data other than those from the other mobile device e.g. RSS news feeds can be used in the correlation and event determination step. The event data is then correlated with the other event data as well as data not from the other mobile device based on the tag and aggregated with the other event data to generate a composite model of the event based on the correlation. This corresponds to steps and respectively. The composite model may include a set of empirical historical and experiential data for classifying an event circumstances related to the event response characteristics etc.

In step of process the multimedia event processor transmits a notification message to an emergency services provider a private emergency contact a local government representative a public contact one or more members of a social network a community or a combination thereof. As noted a target destination to which the notification is transmitted may include an e mail address a universal resource identifier URI a communication handle a phone number or other contact means. In another step the multimedia event processor receives a response to the notification message from the target destination. The response may be provided by the emergency contact for indicating a course of action taken responsive to the event data. By way of example an ambulatory service provider may provide information regarding response times emergency actions taken etc.

Per step the multimedia event processor correlates the response with the event data. In another step the processor determines to update the context data a classification of the event data or a combination thereof based on the response. It is noted therefore that the one or more models may be refined based on the continuous updating of event data as well as the associated response data. This may increase the tag generation capabilities of the processor as well as increase the response capabilities of the processor in handling community events and emergencies.

The user information to allow settings include one or more checkboxes for selecting deselecting the sharing of first name last name and user identifier information. Under the present scenario user selection of the checkboxes corresponding to the first name and last name enables this data to be shared with contacts including emergency responders such as police and fire professionals. The device information to allow settings include checkboxes for selecting deselecting the sharing of a device identifier carrier name device type and location information for the device. Under the present scenario user selection of the checkboxes corresponding to the device identifier carrier name and location information enables this data to be shared with contacts.

The device control settings include a checkbox for selecting whether or not to allow access to various capture tools of the device. In addition the settings include a panic activation button for toggling the panic button feature on or off. For the present scenario the panic button is active ON . For example Panic Button behavior may involve a college student walking home at night and is approached by a group of menacing strangers also a Keep Alive Dead man switch can be configured using this panic button e.g. setting for If I m not home by 11 PM I am in trouble . Also user selection of the Allow Access checkbox enables the multimedia event processor to access and or control the various capture tools of the device. It is noted that this includes determining device and or user context information. Upon selection of this option the user is also presented with various activation links i.e. link for enabling selection of specific capture tools and or sensors to allow. The list includes device control over a camera microphone video recorder and GPS sensor with links for the activated tools being presented to the display in highlighted form. Conversely links corresponding to disabled capture tools are presented to the interface without highlight.

The emergency action settings include checkboxes for selecting deselecting a response to a high priority event including whether to contact an emergency responder e.g. police or personal contact as established by the user. Under the present scenario user selection of the checkboxes corresponding to the emergency responder and personal contact enables the multimedia event processor to generate and direct event notifications to these contacts based on high priority events. For low priority events user selection of the personal contact e.g. the same contact limits the multimedia event processor to routing event notifications to only the personal contact. This is at the exclusion of a group contact and social network contact corresponding to the sending of a particular group of contacts or select number of contacts of the user s social network.

As indicated by this example the event notifications are transmitted to exclude user identification data and the device type per settings and . The personal contact may also be adapted by selecting the personal contact link . The personal contact link enables the user to access an online stored or shared database featuring the users various contacts. In certain embodiments the link may also present various data entry fields for defining a contact. Next to the link is an indicator i.e. 1 for conveying the number of contacts currently designated by the user relative to the contact type.

A user configurable countdown timer is also presented for regulating the pace of user response to inquiries or messages received from the multimedia event processor . By way of example the user selects an elapse time e.g. 30 seconds in which they are required to respond to event notifications requests inquiries from the processor etc. Failure to comply within the designated time period enables the multimedia event processor to assume control of the device and or various capture tools thereof trigger the calling of a different contact as queued trigger the calling of an emergency responder etc. The countdown timer may also feature an adjustable frequency setting for indicating a number of retry attempts.

Once the user has made their selections they may select a SAVE action button to upload and save the settings to the multimedia event processor . Alternatively they can select the CANCEL action button to cancel the settings.

Under this scenario user captures image data of the vehicle from their particular vantage point at a time of 1 31 09 pm ON 10 1 XX. Likewise user captures image data from their vantage point as well as sound data corresponding to the event at a time of 1 35 39 pm on 10 01 XX. In response to the capture of the data or direct activation of a panic button by at least one of the user devices and the multimedia event processor is caused to aggregate the event data . In addition to the event data the multimedia event processor also captures context information associated with the various users and and or the user devices 

By way of example the vehicle accident occurs on 10 01 XX at a location corresponding to 123 N. Mekail Drive Chicago Ill. 60616. A context module at each device and is configured to generate a specific set of geographic coordinates for each of the respective devices and within proximity of the accident. For location of device the context module determines global positioning coordinates expressed in a minutes decimal format where the longitude is N30 17.477 and latitude is W97 44.315. The location of device corresponds to a longitude N30 17.471 and latitude is W97 44.314.

Once the event data and context information is received the multimedia event processor processes the data in various ways. This includes analyzing the event data using various data recognition tools and analysis techniques. In addition the context information and is analyzed. By way of example analysis of the image and audio file results in generation of the tags Accident Crash Car and Heavy Traffic. Generation of the tags is also dependent on the context information i.e. the tag Heavy Traffic may be based on a correlation between the time associated with the event and historically high traffic rates at this time of day. Traffic status may also be provided by external sources like traffic cameras or traffic services available via the Internet.

It is noted also that the multimedia event processor may perform its tag generation analysis based on the timing of aggregation of event data from respective devices and . As such the tags generated for one set of event data and from device may also be based on analysis of the event data provided by the other device . Hence tag generation for differing sets of event data may be performed by the processor based on a determined correlation between the event data a determined similar time of aggregation of the event data e.g. the event data is received within X seconds of one another or a combination thereof. As noted before the multimedia event processor is able to determine a match between the different event data based at least in part on commonality between the time location coordinates and date e.g. context information to within a predetermined threshold of variance.

The multimedia event processor provides feedback to the user of its analysis of the provided event data and and corresponding context information . Having processed the information and that of others e.g. user a level of severity of High Priority is determined. Also processing of the various tags with respect to one or more event models enables the processor to determine an event type of Car Accident. Still further having aggregated the context information for all event data the relative location of the accident is determined to occur at or near an intersection of Mekail and State Street in Chicago Ill. These results are presented to the device of the user along with a reference of the image data upon which the results are based. In addition the one or more tags generated with respect to the aggregated event data correlated to the event Car Accident are displayed i.e. tags . It is noted that presentment of the results reference and tags serve as a means of validating receipt of the data by the multimedia event processor. Furthermore rendering of this information to the display of the device serves as confirmation of the processor s interpretation of the event as well as a confirmation of the determined response action to be executed based on the event type e.g. Car Accident High Severity . While not shown similar information is rendered to the display of other devices associated with the tagged event data i.e. device for user . Processor according to certain embodiments may deliver events to a human agent for follow up in the case that the original event recipient may not be in a position to see a display or interact with it.

A user response option message is also presented via the interface. By way of example in the case where the user is the driver of the vehicle a message may be presented for querying the status of the user. A countdown message may also be presented for indicating an amount of time the user has before the multimedia event processor executes an emergency response action. The user has the option of selecting a Y or N action button and respectively for providing a Yes or No response respectively to the multimedia event processor . In the case of a Yes response the multimedia event processor may delay performance of any response actions for a predetermined amount of time per the policy settings . The user may also be presented with a DISREGARD action button for indicating that no further action on the part of the multimedia event processor is required by the user .

In the case where the user provides no response and the countdown period elapses the multimedia event processor performs a response action. By way of example the processor generates and transmits a notification message to the local police department regarding the event. The notification message will include only that data agreed upon by the user to be shared with the particular contact in question. Hence a policy setting of user for restricting the name of the user results in sharing of only other pertinent details such as the results information the image data etc.

As a result of the response action the multimedia event processor causes the user interface at device to present a message for specifying the response action undertaken. Under this scenario the message indicates that a message is being sent to the police department. The message further indicates the specific police department to which the message is being routed dispatched which in this case is Chicago Ward 2. Routing of the message to this specific emergency responder is based at least in part on the context information. The user may cancel execution of this response action by selecting a CANCEL action button .

It is contemplated in other embodiments that policy settings may be established for enabling the retrieval of sensitive data from a designated data source relative to the determined event type. By way of example user may establish a policy setting for enabling retrieval of auto insurance policy information or medical records from their auto insurance carrier and medical provider respectively. Under this scenario when an event type corresponding to Car Accident is determined this additional data may be retrieved by the multimedia event processor and shared with the various contacts that are to be notified. Thus if user suffers from diabetes and is subject to the vehicle accident an emergency medical team may be notified of this need in advance. Similarly accident witness information for users and can be retrieved with information required to generate a police report being automatically extracted and populated in advance for use by the responding officer. Still further auto policy information may be directed routed to the respective opposing insurance companies of user and any other driver involved in the accident accordingly to expedite claims notification and processing.

With regard to the above described examples of it is noted that the exact location of the vehicle may or may not be determined depending on the amount of information aggregated or availability of additional information regarding the event data. By way of example the event location may be extrapolated from the context information to a granularity of street intersections e.g. Mekail State Street Chicago Ill. 60616 . As another example a finer granularity may be determined based on advanced analysis of the image or sound data including determining landmarks evaluating sound signals cross referencing of the data against surveillance cameras etc. Additionally the use of technologies including augmented reality can be used to augment the view of the accident scene in using streaming image recognition to for example identify precise location of relevant information in the environment e.g. location of car or cars involved in an accident and overlays of information on the scene e.g. year make model owner insurance company etc. of a vehicle involved in an accident in real time.

The exemplary techniques and systems presented herein enable one or more contacts to be notified on the basis of aggregated event data. One advantage of the exemplary system as presented herein includes enabling the easy capture classification prioritization and dispatching of a variety of community events requiring significantly reduced manual effort. By way of example the multimedia event processor may exploit the use of various web based processing techniques including Semantic web technology Resource Description Framework RDF protocols Web Ontology Language OWL and the like.

Another advantage includes enabling the real time transmission of event data and contact information to emergency responders while further supporting continuous updating and refining of event details and actions. By way of example a knowledge base may be maintained for enabling the ongoing and subsequent analysis of events to support response action improvement event classification improvement situational event model development and the like. This refinement process may be rapidly engaged per the continuous aggregation of event data from a plurality of different device users in effect increasing the pace of accumulation of data points maintained in the knowledgebase. As yet another advantage the user may establish various settings for affecting the response action to be automated by the system including information privacy settings message routing settings workflow settings device control permissions and other policies.

The processes described herein for enabling event notifications to be directed to one or more contacts based on the acquiring of common event data by one or more wireless devices may be implemented via software hardware e.g. general processor Digital Signal Processing DSP chip an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs etc. firmware or a combination thereof. Such exemplary hardware for performing the described functions is detailed below.

The computer system may be coupled via the bus to a display such as a cathode ray tube CRT liquid crystal display active matrix display or plasma display for displaying information to a computer user. An input device such as a touch screen microphone or keyboard including alphanumeric and other keys is coupled to the bus for communicating information and command selections to the processor . Another type of user input device is a cursor control such as a mouse a trackball or cursor direction keys for communicating direction information and command selections to the processor and for adjusting cursor movement on the display .

According to an embodiment of the invention the processes described herein are performed by the computer system in response to the processor executing an arrangement of instructions contained in main memory . Such instructions can be read into main memory from another computer readable medium such as the storage device . Execution of the arrangement of instructions contained in main memory causes the processor to perform the process steps described herein. One or more processors in a multi processing arrangement may also be employed to execute the instructions contained in main memory . In alternative embodiments hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement the embodiment of the invention. Thus embodiments of the invention are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software.

The computer system also includes a communication interface coupled to bus . The communication interface provides a two way data communication coupling to a network link connected to a local network . For example the communication interface may be a digital subscriber line DSL card or modem an integrated services digital network ISDN card a cable modem a telephone modem or any other communication interface to provide a data communication connection to a corresponding type of communication line. As another example communication interface may be a local area network LAN card e.g. for Ethernet or an Asynchronous Transfer Model ATM network to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN. Wireless links can also be implemented. In any such implementation communication interface sends and receives electrical electromagnetic or optical signals that carry digital data streams representing various types of information. Further the communication interface can include peripheral interface devices such as a Universal Serial Bus USB interface a PCMCIA Personal Computer Memory Card International Association interface etc. Although a single communication interface is depicted in multiple communication interfaces can also be employed.

The network link typically provides data communication through one or more networks to other data devices. For example the network link may provide a connection through local network to a host computer which has connectivity to a network e.g. a wide area network WAN or the global packet data communication network now commonly referred to as the Internet or to data equipment operated by a service provider. The local network and the network both use electrical electromagnetic or optical signals to convey information and instructions. The signals through the various networks and the signals on the network link and through the communication interface which communicate digital data with the computer system are exemplary forms of carrier waves bearing the information and instructions.

The computer system can send messages and receive data including program code through the network s the network link and the communication interface . In the Internet example a server not shown might transmit requested code belonging to an application program for implementing an embodiment of the invention through the network the local network and the communication interface . The processor may execute the transmitted code while being received and or store the code in the storage device or other non volatile storage for later execution. In this manner the computer system may obtain application code in the form of a carrier wave.

The term computer readable medium as used herein refers to any medium that participates in providing instructions to the processor for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to computer readable storage medium or non transitory i.e. non volatile media and volatile media and transmission media. Non volatile media include for example optical or magnetic disks such as the storage device . Volatile media include dynamic memory such as main memory . Transmission media include coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including the wires that comprise the bus . Transmission media can also take the form of acoustic optical or electromagnetic waves such as those generated during radio frequency RF and infrared IR data communications. Common forms of computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium a CD ROM CDRW DVD any other optical medium punch cards paper tape optical mark sheets any other physical medium with patterns of holes or other optically recognizable indicia a RAM a PROM and EPROM a FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer can read.

Various forms of computer readable media may be involved in providing instructions to a processor for execution. For example the instructions for carrying out at least part of the embodiments of the invention may initially be borne on a magnetic disk of a remote computer. In such a scenario the remote computer loads the instructions into main memory and sends the instructions over a telephone line using a modem. A modem of a local computer system receives the data on the telephone line and uses an infrared transmitter to convert the data to an infrared signal and transmit the infrared signal to a portable computing device such as a personal digital assistant PDA or a laptop. An infrared detector on the portable computing device receives the information and instructions borne by the infrared signal and places the data on a bus. The bus conveys the data to main memory from which a processor retrieves and executes the instructions. The instructions received by main memory can optionally be stored on storage device either before or after execution by processor.

In one embodiment the chip set or chip includes a communication mechanism such as a bus for passing information among the components of the chip set . A processor has connectivity to the bus to execute instructions and process information stored in for example a memory . The processor may include one or more processing cores with each core configured to perform independently. A multi core processor enables multiprocessing within a single physical package. Examples of a multi core processor include two four eight or greater numbers of processing cores. Alternatively or in addition the processor may include one or more microprocessors configured in tandem via the bus to enable independent execution of instructions pipelining and multithreading. The processor may also be accompanied with one or more specialized components to perform certain processing functions and tasks such as one or more digital signal processors DSP or one or more application specific integrated circuits ASIC . A DSP typically is configured to process real world signals e.g. sound in real time independently of the processor . Similarly an ASIC can be configured to performed specialized functions not easily performed by a more general purpose processor. Other specialized components to aid in performing the inventive functions described herein may include one or more field programmable gate arrays FPGA not shown one or more controllers not shown or one or more other special purpose computer chips.

In one embodiment the chip set or chip includes merely one or more processors and some software and or firmware supporting and or relating to and or for the one or more processors.

The processor and accompanying components have connectivity to the memory via the bus . The memory includes both dynamic memory e.g. RAM magnetic disk writable optical disk etc. and static memory e.g. ROM CD ROM etc. for storing executable instructions that when executed perform the inventive steps described herein to enable event notifications to be directed to one or more contacts based on the acquiring of common event data by one or more wireless devices. The memory also stores the data associated with or generated by the execution of the inventive steps.

While certain exemplary embodiments and implementations have been described herein other embodiments and modifications will be apparent from this description. Accordingly the invention is not limited to such embodiments but rather to the broader scope of the presented claims and various obvious modifications and equivalent arrangements.

