---

title: Intercell frequency offset compensation for frequency domain interference cancellation and equalization for downlink cellular systems
abstract: Methods and apparatus are described for interference cancellation of interference components of a time domain signal in the frequency domain. A time domain sequence is received, and a plurality of overlapping time domain segments is generated from the time domain sequence. Frequency offset compensation to compensate for frequency offset associated with a serving cell is performed in the time domain, and the overlapping time domain segments are then converted to the frequency domain. Additional frequency offset compensation may be performed to compensation for the frequency offset associated with interfering cells.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09002280&OS=09002280&RS=09002280
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 09002280
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120731
---
The present Application for Patent claims priority to Provisional Application No. 61 586 915 entitled Intercell Frequency Offset Compensation for Frequency Domain Interference Cancellation and Equalization for Downlink Cellular Systems filed Jan. 16 2012 and assigned to the assignee hereof and hereby expressly incorporated by reference herein.

The present Application for Patent is related to co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 563 203 entitled Frequency Domain Interference Cancellation and Equalization for Downlink Cellular Systems filed concurrently herewith assigned to the assignee hereof and expressly incorporated by reference herein.

This application relates generally to interference cancellation and more particularly to performing interference cancellation in the frequency domain for downlink cellular systems.

Interference of downlink cellular systems coming from multipath and co channel interference from adjacent base stations is a common problem. To address these problems conventional systems separate interference components from the received signals estimate channel impulse responses equalize the channel impulse response and then attempt to reconstruct the signals. Each of these operations is typically performed in the time domain and such operations are multiplier intensive resulting in high implementation complexity and power consumption.

The following presents a simplified summary of one or more aspects in order to provide a basic understanding of such aspects. This summary is not an extensive overview of all contemplated aspects and is intended to neither identify key or critical elements of all aspects nor delineate the scope of any or all aspects. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts of one or more aspects in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

In accordance with some aspects a method for interference cancellation of interference components of a time domain signal in the frequency domain is described. The method may include receiving a time domain sequence and generating a plurality of overlapping time domain segments from the time domain sequence. The method may also include performing a serving cell frequency compensation operation on the overlapping time domain segments to compensate for frequency offset associated with a serving cell and converting the plurality of overlapping time domain segments into a plurality of frequency domain segments. In addition the method may include performing a first interference cell frequency offset compensation operation during an equalization phase of the interference cancellation and performing a second interference cell frequency offset compensation operation during a reconstruction phase of the interference cancellation.

In other related aspects a computer readable medium may have at least one instruction executable by a computer to perform the acts of the above noted method an apparatus may include at least one means for performing the acts of the above noted method and an apparatus may include at least one processor for performing the acts of the above noted method.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends the one or more aspects comprise the features hereinafter fully described and particularly pointed out in the claims. The following description and the annexed drawings set forth in detail certain illustrative features of the one or more aspects. These features are indicative however of but a few of the various ways in which the principles of various aspects may be employed and this description is intended to include all such aspects and their equivalents.

Various aspects are now described with reference to the drawings. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of one or more aspects. It may be evident however that such aspect s may be practiced without these specific details.

The apparatus and methods described herein are configured to reduce the complexity and power consumption associated with interference cancellation by using an interference cancellation structure that performs signal equalization reconstruction and interference cancellation in the frequency domain. A signal is converted from the time domain to the frequency domain once and is subsequently kept in the frequency domain between successive processing iterations. Interference estimates are converted to the frequency domain and interference cancellation is performed in the frequency domain. Variances in the carrier frequency offset associated with each cell transmitting a signal are compensated for.

As shown at the signal transmitted by base station shown as S t may experience delays associated with the communications channel including for example multipath delays. Interference signal i1 t shown at and transmitted by base station and interference signal i2 t shown at and transmitted by base station are combined with the actual data signal transmitted by base station . As such communications device receives a signal r t shown at which includes interference components.

Communications device further includes a memory such as for storing data used herein and or local versions of applications being executed by processor . Memory can include any type of memory usable by a computer such as random access memory RAM read only memory ROM tapes magnetic discs optical discs volatile memory non volatile memory and any combination thereof. Applications may include for example one or more object matching applications.

Further communications device may include a communications component that provides means for establishing and maintaining communications with one or more parties utilizing hardware software and services as described herein. Communications component may carry communications between components on communications device as well as between communications device and external devices such as devices located across a communications network and or devices serially or locally connected to communications device . For example communications component may include one or more buses and may further include transmit chain components and receive chain components associated with a transmitter and receiver respectively operable for interfacing with external devices such as base stations and .

Additionally communications device may further include a data store which can be any suitable combination of hardware and or software that provides for mass storage of information databases and programs employed in connection with aspects described herein. For example data store may be a data repository for applications not currently being executed by processor . In some aspects data store may be located within memory .

Communications device may additionally include a user interface component operable to receive inputs or serving as an application programming interface API and may be further operable to generate outputs for presentation to the user. User interface component may include one or more input devices including but not limited to a keyboard a number pad a mouse a touch sensitive display a navigation key a function key a microphone a voice recognition component a still camera a video camera an audio recorder and or any other mechanism capable of receiving an input or any combination thereof. Further user interface component may include one or more output devices including but not limited to a display a speaker a haptic feedback mechanism a printer any other mechanism capable of presenting an output or any combination thereof. Communications device may also include a frequency domain interference cancellation component . Frequency domain interference cancellation component may be configured to equalize reconstruct and remove interference components from a received signal in the frequency domain and to compensate for differences in frequency offset when performing interference cancellation.

Referring now to frequency domain interference cancellation component is described in further detail. Frequency domain interference cancellation component may include a time domain sample memory a frequency domain segment generation component a frequency domain residual memory and an interference processing component . Interference processing component may include an equalization component a symbol processing component a reconstruction component and an interference canceller .

Time domain sample memory may be configured to receive a sampled time domain sequence which may be viewed as a plurality of overlapping time domain segments. Each time domain segment may comprise overlapping samples. That is each segment may include a number of samples overlapping with adjacent segments. For example each segment may contain 128 samples with 32 samples overlapping with an adjacent segment. In accordance with some aspects the overlapping time domain segments may generated using an overlap and save overlap and add or any other technique for generating overlapping segments. When processing samples related to data transmitted from the serving cell the samples in the overlapping time domain segments may have the serving cell carrier frequency offset compensated for for example by multiplying the samples with a complex sinusoid having a frequency equal to the serving cell carrier frequency offset as shown at . A frequency domain segment generation component may be configured to convert the overlapping time domain segments into the frequency domain after the frequency offset compensation has been performed in the time domain resulting in frequency domain representations of the overlapping time domain segments. For example as shown in a plurality of Fast Fourier Transforms FFTs may be performed to convert the time domain segments into frequency domain segments. While FFTs are shown in this example other frequency conversion operations may be performed. The frequency domain segments may be stored in frequency domain residual memory .

For a given segment all samples contributing to a portion of interest of that segment may be output to equalizer . When processing samples associated with an interfering cell an impulse response shown as g n may be multiplied by a complex sinusoid having a frequency value equal to the difference between the serving cell frequency offset and the interference cell frequency offset and the result of the multiplication may converted to the frequency domain and applied as a second input to the equalizer . The samples may be multiplied with the second input which serves as the frequency response of the equalizer filter taps to remove multipath and then converted back to the time domain.

After converting the equalized samples to the time domain the output may again be multiplied by a complex sinusoid having a frequency equal to the difference between the serving cell frequency offset and the interference cell frequency offset as shown at . The time domain samples may then be output to symbol processing component .

Symbol processing component may be configured to generate an estimate of a transmitted waveform. For example symbol processing component may be configured to apply a linear minimum mean square error MMSE process to reduce noise in the signal and to obtain the estimate. The estimate of the transmitted waveform may be output to reconstruction component which may be configured to create a frequency domain estimate of the received signal. Reconstruction component may be configured to multiply the estimate of the transmitted waveform with a complex sinusoid with a frequency equal to the difference between the serving cell frequency offset and the interference cell frequency offset. After the multiplication the output may be transformed from the time domain to the frequency domain by performing an FFT for example to generate a frequency domain estimate of the transmitted waveform.

The reconstruction component may then multiply the frequency domain estimate of the transmitted waveform with a frequency domain estimate of one or more reconstruction filter taps shown in as h1 n and h2 n . To account for frequency offset the reconstruction filter taps h1 n and h2 n may be multiplied with a complex sinusoid equal to the difference between the serving cell frequency offset and the interference cell frequency offset prior to being converted to the frequency domain. The output of reconstruction component is a frequency domain estimate of the received signal.

Interference canceller receives the frequency domain estimate of the received signal and may use this estimate to remove interference components associated with the given segment directly from the residual memory in the frequency domain. That is the interference canceller may be configured to compare the frequency domain representation of the received waveform stored in the frequency domain residual memory with the determined frequency domain estimate of the received signal to remove interference contributions. The process may be repeated for additional segments until all contribution of interference sources have been removed.

Turning now to a method for frequency offset compensation when performing interference cancellation in the frequency domain is illustrated. In accordance with some aspects method may be implemented by communications device . As depicted at a time domain sequence may be received. The time domain sequence may include data transmitted by a serving cell serving communications device as well as data representing interference from one or more neighboring cells.

As shown at overlapping time domain segments may be generated from the time domain sequence. For example the time domain sequence may be segmented into a plurality of time domain segments each segment having samples overlapping with an adjacent segment. A serving cell frequency compensation operation may be performed as shown at . For example the serving cell frequency compensation operation may include multiplying the time domain segments with a complex sinusoid having a frequency equal to the frequency offset associated with the serving cell. The time domain segments may then be converted into the frequency domain by applying one or more FFTs for example as shown at . As shown at a first operation may be performed to compensate for the frequency offset during an equalization phase of the interference cancellation. For example the first operation may include equalizing the frequency domain samples using a frequency transform of equalizer taps that have been multiplied by a complex sinusoid having a frequency equal to the difference between the serving cell frequency offset and the interference cell frequency offset when processing interference cell segments. As shown at a second operation may be performed to compensate for frequency offset during a reconstruction phase of the interference cancellation. For example the second operation may include reconstructing the frequency domain samples using frequency domain representations of equalizer taps that have been multiplied by a complex sinusoid having a frequency equal to the difference between the serving cell frequency offset and the interference cell frequency offset when processing interference cell segments.

Referring now to an apparatus for performing frequency offset compensation for frequency domain interference cancellation is shown. The apparatus can reside at least partially within communications device according to one aspect. It is to be appreciated that apparatus is represented as including functional blocks which can represent functions implemented by a processor software or combination thereof e.g. firmware . As such apparatus includes a logical grouping of electrical components that can act in conjunction. For instance logical grouping may include means for receiving a time domain sequence Block . For example in an aspect the means can include time domain sample server communications component and or processor . Logical grouping can include means for generating overlapping time domain segments from the time domain sequence Block . For example in an aspect the means may include time domain sample server frequency domain sample generation component and or processor . Logical grouping can also include means for performing a serving cell frequency compensation operation on the overlapping time domain segments to compensate for frequency offset associated with a serving cell Block . For example in an aspect the means can include frequency domain interference cancellation component and or processor . Further logical grouping can include means for converting the plurality of overlapping time domain segments into a plurality of frequency domain segments Block . In an aspect the means may include frequency domain sample generation component and or processor . Logical grouping can also include means for performing a first interference cell frequency offset compensation operation during an equalization phase of the interference cancellation when processing segments from an interfering cell Block . In an aspect the means may include frequency domain interference cancellation component and or processor . The logical grouping may additionally include means for performing a second interference cell frequency offset compensation operation during a reconstruction phase of the interference cancellation when processing segments from an interfering cell Block . In an aspect the means may include frequency domain interference cancellation component and or processor .

Additionally apparatus can include a memory that retains instructions for executing functions associated with blocks . While shown as being external to memory it is to be understood that one or more of blocks can exist within memory . In an aspect for example memory may be the same as or similar to memory or data store .

As used in this application the terms component module system and the like are intended to include a computer related entity such as but not limited to hardware firmware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a computing device and the computing device can be a component. One or more components can reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers. In addition these components can execute from various computer readable media having various data structures stored thereon. The components may communicate by way of local and or remote processes such as in accordance with a signal having one or more data packets such as data from one component interacting with another component in a local system distributed system and or across a network such as the Internet with other systems by way of the signal.

Furthermore various aspects are described herein in connection with a terminal which can be a wired terminal or a wireless terminal. A terminal can also be called a system device subscriber unit subscriber station mobile station mobile mobile device remote station remote terminal access terminal user terminal terminal communication device user agent user device or user equipment UE . A wireless terminal may be a cellular telephone a satellite phone a cordless telephone a Session Initiation Protocol SIP phone a wireless local loop WLL station a personal digital assistant PDA a handheld device having wireless connection capability a computing device or other processing devices connected to a wireless modem. Moreover various aspects are described herein in connection with a base station. A base station may be utilized for communicating with wireless terminal s and may also be referred to as an access point a Node B or some other terminology.

Moreover the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or. That is unless specified otherwise or clear from the context the phrase X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is the phrase X employs A or B is satisfied by any of the following instances X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from the context to be directed to a singular form.

The techniques described herein may be used for various wireless communication systems such as CDMA TDMA FDMA OFDMA SC FDMA and other systems. The terms system and network are often used interchangeably. A CDMA system may implement a radio technology such as Universal Terrestrial Radio Access UTRA cdma2000 etc. UTRA includes Wideband CDMA W CDMA and other variants of CDMA. Further cdma2000 covers IS 2000 IS 95 and IS 856 standards. A TDMA system may implement a radio technology such as Global System for Mobile Communications GSM . An OFDMA system may implement a radio technology such as Evolved UTRA E UTRA Ultra Mobile Broadband UMB IEEE 802.11 Wi Fi IEEE 802.16 WiMAX IEEE 802.20 Flash OFDM etc. UTRA and E UTRA are part of Universal Mobile Telecommunication System UMTS . 3GPP Long Term Evolution LTE is a release of UMTS that uses E UTRA which employs OFDMA on the downlink and SC FDMA on the uplink. UTRA E UTRA UMTS LTE and GSM are described in documents from an organization named 3rd Generation Partnership Project 3GPP . Additionally cdma2000 and UMB are described in documents from an organization named 3rd Generation Partnership Project 2 3GPP2 . Further such wireless communication systems may additionally include peer to peer e.g. mobile to mobile ad hoc network systems often using unpaired unlicensed spectrums 802.xx wireless LAN BLUETOOTH and any other short or long range wireless communication techniques.

Various aspects or features will be presented in terms of systems that may include a number of devices components modules and the like. It is to be understood and appreciated that the various systems may include additional devices components modules etc. and or may not include all of the devices components modules etc. discussed in connection with the figures. A combination of these approaches may also be used.

The various illustrative logics logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration. Additionally at least one processor may comprise one or more modules operable to perform one or more of the steps and or actions described above.

Further the steps and or actions of a method or algorithm described in connection with the aspects disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers a hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium may be coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. Further in some aspects the processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. Additionally the ASIC may reside in a user terminal. In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal. Additionally in some aspects the steps and or actions of a method or algorithm may reside as one or any combination or set of codes and or instructions on a machine readable medium and or computer readable medium which may be incorporated into a computer program product.

In one or more aspects the functions described may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions may be stored or transmitted as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium. Computer readable media includes both computer storage media and communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A storage medium may be any available media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Also any connection may be termed a computer readable medium. For example if software is transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair or digital subscriber line DSL then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair or DSL are included in the definition of medium. Disk and disc as used herein includes compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs usually reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

While the foregoing disclosure discusses illustrative aspects and or embodiments it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the described aspects and or embodiments as defined by the appended claims. Furthermore although elements of the described aspects and or embodiments may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated. Additionally all or a portion of any aspect and or embodiment may be utilized with all or a portion of any other aspect and or embodiment unless stated otherwise.

