---

title: Intelligent streaming to a mobile device
abstract: Intelligent streaming of multimedia content is provided. Based on various conditions and signals detected by a mobile device, an activity state of the mobile device that indicates whether viewing of a video portion of streaming multimedia content is desirable or likely may be determined. A server streaming the multimedia content, upon receiving from the mobile device either a request to eliminate the video portion streaming multimedia content or a status update that the video portion is not viewable or is not likely being viewed, is configured to replace streaming of the multimedia content with both audio and video portions with streaming of the multimedia content containing the audio portion but without the video portion.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09113317&OS=09113317&RS=09113317
owner: Verizon Patent and Licensing Inc.
number: 09113317
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121219
---
In recent years streaming of multimedia content through digital data networks to user terminal devices has expanded and increased in popularity around the world. Many services enable a user to stream music movies or other media stored on servers directly to the user s computer or set top box. The media may be transmitted via one or more networks using various networking technologies.

However streaming content consumes considerable network resources. Video content requires an especially large amount of network resources since video content often contains a video portion as well as a corresponding audio portion. The increasing popularity of streaming multimedia content places high demands on the networks that carry the streaming media to user devices which in turn requires the network operators to deploy additional resources to stream video content.

With the increased sophistication of mobile networks and the increased consumer usage of mobile wireless data services the recent trend is for the network service providers to replace unlimited data plans with service plans in which the cost to the customer is based on usage e.g. the amount of data communication through the network to from a mobile device. In some cases a user may enter into an agreement with a service provider and or a network operator to obtain a limited amount of data service through a mobile network to a user s mobile device in exchange for a monthly fee with more data being available at an additional cost. Accordingly a user may be discouraged from streaming videos to the user s mobile device for fear of incurring additional costs.

Hence a need exists for reducing the network resources used to stream video content in order to reduce the demands put on a network when the video content is streamed and or reduce the amount of a user s data used to stream the video content.

In the following detailed description numerous specific details are set forth by way of examples in order to provide a thorough understanding of the relevant teachings. However it should be apparent that the present teachings may be practiced without such details. In other instances well known methods procedures components and or circuitry have been described at a relatively high level without detail in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring aspects of the present teachings.

Streaming of multimedia content that includes both a video component and an associated audio component through digital data networks to user terminal devices has become common and popular. As noted however streaming content consumes considerable network resources. Situations arise in which a user begins receiving such content but for a time only experiences or wishes to experience the audio portion of the desired program. For example a user may still be listening to the audio component of the multimedia content but is viewing other items of interest or is otherwise not viewing the video component of the multimedia content.

Where the user s terminal is a mobile device the amount of data that the network delivers to the device is often measured and used to bill the subscriber for the data service through the network. To conserve network resources and possibly reduce data consumption that is billable to the user when a user s activity or lack thereof on a mobile device indicates that the user is not viewing a video only the audio portion of that video is streamed. The user s activity can include for example placing a mobile device face down switching from one active window playing the video to another window minimizing the active window playing the video closing a laptop or clam shell type mobile device and so on.

Reference now is made in detail to the examples illustrated in the accompanying drawings and discussed below. is a diagram that illustrates an example of a network environment that may provide intelligent streaming of multimedia content to a device. The network environment in includes a mobile communication network that is coupled to one or more servers e.g. multimedia server through another communication network such as the Internet. Although reference numeral in is shown as a mobile communication network aspects of the examples of intelligent multimedia content streaming described below may apply to or in the context of other communication networks or sub networks as well.

The mobile communication network may be operated by a carrier or service provider to provide a wide range of mobile communication services and ancillary services or features to its subscriber customers and associated device users. The elements generally indicated by the reference numeral the base stations and mobile devices to server are elements of the mobile communication network and are operated by or on behalf of the carrier although the devices to typically are sold to the carrier s customers. The network environment provides communications between the devices to as well as communications for the mobile devices to with networks and stations outside the mobile communication network .

For purposes of later discussion several users mobile devices to appear in the drawing to represent examples of the devices that may receive various services via the network environment . Today many devices are mobile devices that take the form of portable handsets smart phones tablet computers or personal digital assistants PDAs although they may be implemented in other form factors including consumer and business electronic devices. In for example mobile devices and may be in the form of a smart phone or tablet a portable handset or a laptop configured to communicate wirelessly with the mobile communication network .

In other examples not shown in devices that communicate with the mobile communication network may include more stationary devices such as desktop computers that operate in much the same way as mobile devices to . The desktop computers may include application such as browsers or other applications capable of streaming multimedia content. Subscriber customers may also use these more stationary devices to access the communication services and ancillary services provided by the communication network operated by or on the behalf of the carrier.

The network environment may allow users of at least some of the mobile devices to initiate and receive communications such as telephone calls to each other as well as through the public switched telephone network PSTN and telephone stations connected thereto. In the example the network environment also offers a variety of data services via the communication network e.g. the Internet such as downloads web browsing e mail multimedia content etc. The network environment typically is implemented by a number of interconnected networks. Hence the network environment may also include a number of radio access networks RANs as well as regional ground networks interconnecting a number of Radio Access Networks RANs and a wide area network WAN interconnecting the regional ground networks to core network elements such as the Multimedia Messaging Service Centers MMSCs . A regional portion of the network environment such as that serving mobile devices to will typically include one or more RANs and a regional circuit and or packet switched network and associated signaling network facilities.

Physical elements of a RAN operated by one of the mobile service providers or carriers include a number of base stations represented in the example by the base stations BSs . Such base stations typically comprise a base transceiver system BTS which communicates via an antennae system at the site of base station and over the airlink with one or more of the wireless devices to when the wireless devices are within range. Each base station typically includes a BTS coupled to several antennae mounted on a radio tower within a coverage area often referred to as a cell. The BTS is the part of the radio network that sends and receives radio frequency RF signals to from the wireless devices that the base station currently serves. The radio access networks also include a traffic network represented generally by the mobile communication network which carries the user communications for the mobile devices to between the respective base stations and other elements with or through which the mobile devices to communicate. Individual elements such as switches and or routers forming the traffic network are omitted here for simplicity.

The mobile communication network portion of the network environment connects to a packet switched data communication network such as the network commonly referred to as the Internet. Although not shown network may also connect to other packet networks such as private intranets of the carrier and or other third parties that offer content to mobile device users. Packet switched communications via the traffic network and the Internet may support a variety of user services through the network environment such as mobile device communications of text and multimedia messages e mail web surfing or browsing programming and multimedia downloading and streaming including audio and video etc. For example the mobile devices may be able to receive data e.g. multimedia content from one or more servers. shows one such server multimedia server by way of example. The multimedia server may be implemented on a single hardware platform. However to provide effective streaming of content to a large number of mobile devices the multimedia server for the associated example of streaming content may utilize a distributed system architecture.

The content provided by the multimedia server discussed herein may be sent to various mobile devices using the mobile communication network e.g. a packet data network PDN by User Datagram Protocol UDP . The Evolved Packet Core EPC of network uses the concept of Evolved Packet System EPS bearer channels to route IP traffic from a gateway server in the network to the mobile device e.g. to . A bearer channel is an IP packet flow with a defined quality of service QoS between the Packet Data Network PDN Gateway PGW server and the mobile device e.g. to . It is within these packets that the data is sent to a mobile device to . For example the mobile device to receives data e.g. multimedia content via a unicast wireless network communication channel.

The gateway server may be configured to determine data usage for the account associated with the mobile device . Thus data packets received by gateway server addressed to or originating from the mobile device may be counted by the gateway server for account billing purposes. It should be noted that while a single gateway server is illustrated in for simplicity different types of gateway servers may be used for different wireless technologies. For example a high availability HA server can be used for 3G a PGW server for 4G general packet radio service core network GGSN for 2G 3G and wideband code division multiple access WCDMA etc. The different types of gateway servers are collectively referred to herein as gateway server . Also the counts are typically collected and processed through other systems not shown for bill processing or account debiting.

Using the network environment a user on a mobile device may request or may be sent multimedia content to be streamed on the user s mobile device. The multimedia content may includes video content and audio content that is associated with the video content. In some cases however the user may not be actively viewing the multimedia content. Accordingly the resources of the network environment may be conserved and or the data consumed by and possibly billed to the user may be reduced by stopping the streaming of the video portion of the multimedia content while continuing the streaming of the audio portion of the multimedia content.

In one example a delay may occur between the time when the video portion of the multimedia content that occurs at a time before t and the time when the mobile device or another system determines that the video portion of the multimedia content is to be stopped t . This delay may be dependent on how often the mobile device or a component of the mobile device checks for conditions that may be used to determine whether the video portion of the multimedia content is to be stopped.

If the current activity state of the mobile device changes to indicate that the user is viewing or wishes to view the video portion of the multimedia content e.g. at time t the mobile device can work with the server to resume the transmission of the video portion of the multimedia content to the mobile device while continuing to stream the audio portion starting from time t. The playing of the multimedia content is not halted or restarted. Instead playing of the multimedia content continues with both the audio and video portions instead of only the audio portion.

The delay between time t and time t may represent the amount of time that elapses between determining that the streaming of the video portion of the multimedia content is to be resumed and actually resuming the displaying of the video portion of the multimedia content. The delay may also include some time used to coordinate the changing from one version of the multimedia content to another version in a smooth manner such that the user does not have a jarring experience. As with the delay between time t and time t the delay between time t and time t may be nonexistent or at least imperceptible to the user.

In the example of the mobile device is in the form of a smart phone type mobile handset including a touch screen display similar to the device of . Examples of touch screen type mobile devices that may be used to implement mobile device may include but are not limited to a smart phone personal digital assistant PDA tablet computer or other portable device with mobile communication capability. However the structure and operation of the touch screen type mobile device is provided by way of example and the subject technology as described herein is not intended to be limited thereto. For purposes of this discussion provides a block diagram illustration of the exemplary mobile device having a touch screen display for displaying content and receiving user input as or as part of the user interface.

Although the operations that are the focus of discussions here will utilize data communications a typical mobile device such as the exemplary smart phone will also support voice communications. Hence in the example shown in mobile device includes a microphone for audio signal input and a speaker for audio signal output. The microphone and speaker are communicatively coupled to a voice or audio encoder decoder vocoder . For a voice telephone call for example the vocoder provides two way conversion between analog audio signals representing speech or other audio and digital samples at a compressed bit rate compatible with the digital protocol of wireless telephone network communications or voice over packet Internet Protocol communications. The vocoder speaker and microphone may also be used as elements of the user interface during other operations of the device including some types of data communications.

Also as shown in the mobile device includes at least one digital transceiver XCVR for digital wireless communications via a wide area wireless mobile communication network although the mobile device may include additional digital or analog transceivers not shown . The transceiver conforms to one or more of the various digital wireless communication standards utilized by modern mobile networks. Examples of such transceivers include but are not limited to transceivers configured to operate in accordance with Code Division Multiple Access CDMA and 3rd Generation Partnership Project 3GPP network technologies including for example and without limitation 3GPP type 2 or 3GPP2 and 3GPP Long Term Evolution LTE at times referred to as 4G. In an example transceiver provides two way wireless communication of information including digitized audio signals still image and or video signals web page information for display as well as web related inputs and various types of mobile message communications to from the device.

Several of these types of communications through the transceiver and a network as discussed later will relate to intelligent streaming of multimedia content. Communications related to initializing the stream coordinating the data stream and receiving the multimedia content for example will often utilize Internet Protocol IP packet data transport utilizing the digital wireless transceiver XCVR and over the air communications to and from base stations of the serving mobile network. Such communications may be used in the context of specific mobile device applications or operating device functions. Transceiver also sends and receives a variety of signaling messages in support of various voice and data services provided by a network of a wireless service provider to a user of mobile device via the mobile communication network. Transceiver connects through radio frequency RF send and receive amplifiers not separately shown to an antenna .

Many modern mobile devices also support wireless local area network communications over WiFi instead of or in addition to data communications using the wide area mobile communication network. Hence in the example of for packet data communications the exemplary device also includes a WiFi transceiver and associated antenna . Although WiFi is used here as the example the transceiver may take the form of any available two way wireless local area network transceiver of a type that is compatible with one or more standard protocols of communication implemented in wireless local area networks such as one of the WiFi standards under IEEE 802.11 and or WiMAX. The transceiver for example may provide two way data transport for wireless communication with a wireless access point in a residence or enterprise that the user frequents or with any available hotspot offered in a public venue. Although communicating through a different network or networks the transceiver supports various types of data communications similar to the packet data communications supported via the mobile network transceiver including communications that may relate to streaming multimedia content.

WiFi as in the illustrated example has been widely adopted for wireless local area network communications e.g. currently over distances of up to about 100 meters or so. Although this range is somewhat shorter than that available from mobile networks via the transceiver the wireless local area network communications typically incur no or lower data usage charges than the communications via the transceiver using the mobile network.

Mobile device further includes a microprocessor or processor which serves as a programmable controller for mobile device by configuring mobile device to perform various operations for example in accordance with instructions or programming executable by processor . Such operations may include for example various general operations of mobile device as well as operations implemented by execution of various applications that have been installed on the mobile device . For purposes of the present discussion the mobile device operations implemented by processor execution of appropriate programming also include operations related to streaming multimedia content and related operations as described herein.

A flash memory is used to store for example programming or instructions such as the multimedia streaming program for execution by the processor . Depending on the type of device the mobile device will store and run an operating system through which the mobile device applications may be run on the device. Examples of operating systems include Android Apple iOS I Phone or iPad devices Windows Mobile RIM BlackBerry operating system or the like. The programming in the flash memory will also include one or more application programs configured for execution on the processor via or in cooperation with the specific operating system. Flash memory may also be used to store mobile configuration settings for different mobile device applications or services executable at mobile device using processor . Mobile device may also include a non volatile random access memory RAM for a working data processing memory.

Of course other storage devices or configurations may be added to or substituted for those in the example. Such other storage devices may be implemented using any type of storage medium having computer or processor readable instructions or programming stored therein and may include for example any or all of the tangible memory of the computers processors or the like or associated modules.

The instructions or programming for the processor which configure the mobile device may include software e.g. a browser an operating system feature a media player etc. that is configured to stream multimedia content as described herein. The software aspects of the technology may be thought of as products or articles of manufacture typically in the form of executable code or process instructions and or associated data that is stored on or embodied in a type of machine or processor readable medium.

A mobile device under consideration here may include a variety of different types of user interface elements. For discussion purposes in the smart phone example shown in the user interface elements of mobile device include a touch screen display also referred to herein as touch screen or display . For the purposes of displaying visual content the touch screen will include a display screen such as a liquid crystal display LCD or the like. For input purposes touch screen display includes a plurality of touch sensors . Other interface elements may include a keypad including one or more keys . For example the keypad may be implemented in hardware as a T9 or QWERTY keyboard of mobile device and keys may correspond to the physical keys of such a keyboard. Alternatively keys and keyboard of mobile device may be implemented as soft keys of a virtual keyboard graphically represented in an appropriate arrangement via touch screen display . The soft keys presented on the touch screen display may allow the user of mobile device to invoke the same user interface functions as with the physical hardware keys. In some implementations the microphone and speaker may be used as additional user interface elements for audio input and output including with respect to some functions related to streaming multimedia content as described herein.

For output touch screen display is used to present information e.g. text video graphics or other visible content to the user of mobile device . Processor controls visible display output on the LCD or other display element of the touch screen display via a display driver to present the various visible outputs to the device user. For example multimedia streaming software may cause the processor to operate the driver to cause screen to display the video content portion of multimedia content that the device receives as a stream via the network. The one or more speakers also is are part of the user interface for output purposes. For audio output e.g. from the audio portion of multimedia content that the device receives as a stream via the network the programming executed by the processor causes audio data to be supplied to the vocoder for decoding and conversion to signals to drive the speaker s to output the appropriate audio.

In general touch screen display and touch sensors and one or more keys if included are used to provide the textual and graphical user interface for the mobile device . In an example touch screen display provides viewable content to the user at mobile device . Touch screen display also enables the user to interact directly with the viewable content provided in the content display area typically by touching the surface of the screen with a finger or an implement such as a stylus.

In some implementations touch screen display is a capacitive touch screen display and touch sensors are independent capacitors arranged as a grid and disposed at various points throughout a transparent conductive material e.g. indium tin oxide that is layered onto a hard surface composed of insulating material e.g. glass . As another example the respective locations of touch sensors e.g. capacitors may correspond to different intersection points of a matrix of rows and columns of the layered conductive material. Alternatively touch sensors may include a grid of capacitive electrodes formed of one or more layers of transparent conductive material etched onto a sheet of hard insulating material as described above. However it should be noted that touch screen display is not limited to either of the above described implementations. Accordingly touch screen display may be implemented using any of various conventional or other techniques based on for example the type of capacitive touch screen technology desired for a particular implementation. User input includes touch of the display device with the user s finger stylus or similar type of peripheral device used for user input with a touch screen. When current is applied to touch screen display user input can be detected by touch sensors based on a measurable change e.g. reduction in mutual capacitance based on measurable changes in capacitance and voltage at one or more individual sensor locations corresponding to the physical point s of contact of the user s finger s or conductive stylus with respect to touch screen display .

As shown in mobile device also includes a sense circuit coupled to touch sensors for detecting the occurrence and relative location position of each touch with respect to a content display area of touch screen display . In this example sense circuit is configured to provide processor with touch position information based on user input received via touch sensors . In some implementations processor is configured to correlate the touch position information to specific content being displayed within the content display area on touch screen display . The touch position information captured by sense circuit and provided to processor may include but is not limited to coordinates identifying the location of each detected touch with respect to the display area of touch screen display and a timestamp corresponding to each detected touch position.

The information provided by sense circuit may include for example a series of different locations of touch points positions detected across the content display area of touch screen display over a predetermined period of time. The location and time information for a series of continuous touch points positions can be used by processor to track the movement of the user s finger s or other input device across touch screen display . This information also may be used to track various parameters including but not limited to the direction and speed of finger movement based on changes between the different touch positions over time. The information tracked by sense circuit is used by processor to detect various points of touching as well as different types of touch gestures for enabling the processor and thus the device to perform operations in accordance with each touch or touch gesture including any related to operations or the like with respect to streaming multimedia content as described herein.

The logic implemented by the processor of the mobile device in the example by the microprocessor configures the processor to control various functions as implemented by the mobile device . The logic for a processor may be implemented in a variety of ways but in our example the processor logic is implemented by programming such as a multimedia streaming program for execution by the microprocessor . The programming may take a variety of forms and depending on the general program architecture aspects relating to operations performed by the multimedia streaming program may be implemented in various ways. For example the functions for multimedia streaming could be implemented using a special module in the operating system and or as a standalone application program.

Hence the example includes a number of programs including the operating system OS a number of applications and a multimedia streaming program stored in the flash memory for execution by the microprocessor . While in this example the multimedia streaming program is discussed as a separate program the multimedia streaming may also be part of the OS or the functions of the multimedia streaming program may be implemented as a library or other type of modules embedded in each application program intended to utilize multimedia media streaming for reception of associated content for presentation to the user of the device . An application may be installed at the mobile device based on install data for the application. Install data includes data and or other types of information that is used to install or setup the application for initial use at the mobile device before user specific configuration or personalization is applied. The install data may itself be programming which when executed by the microprocessor installs the application for use at the mobile device .

The execution of the multimedia streaming program by the microprocessor in the example enables the mobile device to receive multimedia content that includes video content and associated audio content through the wireless mobile data communication network and provide the received video content and associated audio content via the at least one user interface element. The multimedia streaming program may further configure the processor to identify an activity state of the mobile device . If the activity state indicates that the mobile device is operating in a manner to observe audio output but not video output the processor may be configured to send a message through the wireless mobile data communication network to initiate a change to a stream comprising the audio content but not the video content. If the activity state changes again indicating user operation the mobile device in a manner to observe video output the program enables the processor to send a message through the wireless mobile data communication network to initiate a change to a stream comprising the video content as well as the audio content so as to resume streaming of the video content through the wireless mobile data communication network for receipt by the user s mobile device.

Each device may further be enhanced with one or more sensors configured to detect one or more activity states of the device and or to detect indications that the user is not viewing or does not wish to view the video portion of the multimedia content. The sensors may be coupled to a sense circuit coupled for processing the various signals and conditions detected by the sensors . The sensors may include for example a front facing camera that is configured to use facial recognition techniques to determine whether a user is viewing a screen on the mobile device and or a gyroscope configured to determine movement or lack of movement corresponding to the user putting the mobile device down. As another example not shown a Micro Electro Mechanical System MEMS for use in a smart phone or the like includes detectors and circuitry to sense orientation movement and direction.

The sensors may also or alternatively include a proximity sensor configured to determine whether the mobile device is face down or closed e.g. if the mobile device is a clam shell device . Proximity sensors may include various forms such as electromagnetic sensors inductive proximity sensors or light sensors e.g. photosensors . For example a proximity sensor in the form of a front facing light sensor on a mobile device may be able to determine an amount of light reaching the light sensor from in front of the mobile device . If there is no light or if the light reaching the sensor is below a threshold amount the processor may determine that the mobile device is face down or closed and therefore the user is not viewing the video portion of the multimedia content. Other types of proximity sensors may be similarly used. For example a front facing proximity sensor may use a beam of electromagnetic radiation to determine the distance an object is from the front of the mobile device. If the distance is less than a threshold distance e.g. 1 inch the processor may determine that the mobile device is face down closed or being held up to the side of the user s face e.g. for receiving a phone call and therefore the user is not viewing the video portion of the multimedia content.

The sensors may also or alternatively include a heat sensor configured to detect whether the user has the mobile device held up against the user s face or in front of the user s face. Heat sensors using various technologies e.g. infrared thermometers may be used to detect heat or determine the temperature of the area in front of the mobile device . Based on whether the heat in front of the mobile device is different from the ambient temperature or near the body temperature of a human being for example the processor may determine whether the mobile device is being held up against the user s face or in front of the user s face.

Sensors may also be implemented at least in part in software as part of an operating system or application stored on a machine readable medium and executed by the processor . Such sensors such as software sensor may configure the processor to determine whether an active window or other user interface element displayed on the mobile device s screen is the window playing the multimedia content or another window. The active window for the mobile device may be changed or chosen based on user input e.g. a user selection via the keys the touch screen display or another input device or based on an event e.g. a new window popping up . Other sensors may determine for example whether the window playing the multimedia content is minimized whether the mobile device has entered a locked mode whether the mobile device s screen is on or has been turned off.

The device s screen may be turned off for several reasons. For example in some cases power saving settings on a mobile device may be configured to automatically shut off the display such as the touch screen display in response to having no user interaction or user input for a predetermined period of time. Shutting down of the display may reduce battery consumption by at least some amount especially in mobile devices with larger displays. In other cases an operating system process may automatically enter a locked state after a period of time and in doing so shut off the mobile device display.

There are some scenarios in which a user does not view or does not wish to view the video portion of the multimedia content. However the streaming of the multimedia content should not be stopped entirely because the user may still wish to listen to the audio portion of the multimedia content. For example the multimedia content may be a video and associated audio of a speech a lecture or a music video and the user is more interested in the associated audio portion of the multimedia content than the video portion. In other scenarios the user may be attempting to multitask and view other items of interest while listening to the audio portion of the multimedia content. For whatever reason it may be desirable to stop streaming the video portion of the multimedia content while continuing with the audio portion and doing so may reduce the amount of data consumed by the user.

Accordingly if one or more of the sensors or detects a condition that corresponds to a predetermined activity state indicating that the user is not viewing or does not wish to view the video portion of the multimedia content the mobile device may transmit a communication e.g. a status report to a server that causes the video portion of the multimedia content to stop being transmitted to the mobile device while the audio portion of the multimedia content continues to be transmitted to the mobile device. Similarly if one or more of the sensors or later detects a condition that corresponds to a state indicating user operation the mobile device in a manner to observe video output the mobile device may transmit a communication e.g. a status report to the server that causes the server to resume streaming of video portion of the multimedia content through the network to the mobile device.

The structure and operation of the mobile device as outlined with respect to were described by way of example only.

The network interface is configured to enable the server communicate with other systems servers or devices such as mobile device over a data communication network. For example the network interface may be used to retrieve multimedia content from the multimedia server a content provider or other sources. The network interface may also communicate with a mobile device in order to set up data stream and stream the multimedia content to the mobile device .

The processor serves as a programmable controller for server by configuring server to perform various operations for example in accordance with instructions or programming executable by processor . Such operations may include for example various general operations of server as well as operations implemented by execution of various applications that have been installed on the server and directing other components of the server such as network interface and memory module . The server operations implemented by processor execution of appropriate programming may also include operations related to streaming multimedia content and related operations as described herein.

The memory module may include one or more memory devices such as a hard disk drive a flash memory or other storage devices. The memory module may be configured to store for example programming or instructions such as the server operating system and application software configured for execution on the processor via or in cooperation with the specific operating system. The application software may include programming that enables the server to stream multimedia to a mobile device as described herein. The software aspects of the technology may be thought of as products or articles of manufacture typically in the form of executable code or process instructions and or associated data that is stored on or embodied in a type of machine or processor readable medium.

The execution of the application software by the processor enables the server to retrieve multimedia content via the network interface from other sources as described above and store the multimedia content on the memory module . In some cases the application software may also configure the processor to process the multimedia content and generate different versions of the multimedia content which may also be stored on the memory module . For example the processor may extract audio content from multimedia content that includes both video content and associated audio content and store the extracted audio content in a new version of the multimedia content. On the other hand the processor may make a copy of the multimedia content that includes a video portion and an audio portion and remove the video content.

Software stored on the memory module may also configure the processor to communicate with a mobile device via the network interface in order to set up streaming of multimedia content through a wireless mobile data communication network and begin the stream via the network interface . The multimedia content initially streamed to the mobile device may include a video portion and an associated audio portion whereas at another time the streamed content may include audio only no video portion .

More specifically during the streaming process the network interface may receive a status report from the mobile device . The status report may include information that may be used by the processor executing software to determine whether to change the stream to the mobile device . As will be discussed further with respect to . the status report may include a request for a particular version of the multimedia content an activity state of the mobile device or information that the processor executing software to determine the activity state of the mobile device . Responsive to an activity state of the mobile device indicating user operation of the mobile device in a manner to observe audio output but not video output the processor executing the software may stop streaming of the video portion of the multimedia content through the wireless mobile data communication network and continue streaming of the audio content as discussed herein.

The structure and operation of the server as outlined with respect to were described by way of example only.

Referring back to initially at the digital transceiver of the mobile device may transmit a request for the first version of the multimedia content to the network interface of the server . The first version may include both the video portion and the associated audio portion. In response to receiving the request the network interface of the server may begin transmitting the first version to the mobile device at . At the mobile device may begin providing the first version of the multimedia content through the touch screen display and speaker as the multimedia content is being received from the server .

At some point while the first version is being transmitted to the mobile device at the microprocessor which is executing the multimedia streaming program on the mobile device may determine that the current activity state of the mobile device is indicative of the desirability of the second version of the multimedia content being transmitted to the mobile device . The second version of the multimedia content includes the same audio content as the first version of the multimedia content but does not include the video content of the first version of the multimedia content. As described above the current activity state of the mobile device may be determined by the microprocessor executing the multimedia streaming program based on one or more factors or signals detected by sensors and or on the mobile device . Based on the determination the digital transceiver may transmit a request for the second version of the multimedia content at . The request may be in the form of an API function call to request the second version of the multimedia content or a request that includes the URL for the second version. The network interface of the server receives the request and in response to receiving the request may stop transmitting the first version of the multimedia content to the mobile device at and begin transmitting the second version at .

In some cases the determining of the current activity state of the mobile device may occur independently of the streaming of the multimedia content. For example the microprocessor executing the multimedia streaming program on the mobile device may intermittently determine the current activity state of the mobile device or determine the current activity state in response to another event unrelated to the streaming of the multimedia content. For example the microprocessor may determine the activity state on a schedule e.g. every 10 seconds . Furthermore the schedule may vary based on factors such as the length of the multimedia content. For example the microprocessor may determine the activity state for the mobile device more frequently when playing multimedia content of shorter length and less frequently when playing multimedia content of longer length. In other examples the microprocessor may determine the activity state in response to the sensors and or detecting certain conditions or signals such as if the active window is no longer the window displaying the video portion of the multimedia content. The sensors may also be configured to perform detection functions on a schedule or in response to conditions or signals detected by other sensors. For example a sensor may detect the presence or absence of a condition more frequently when playing multimedia content of shorter length and less frequently when playing multimedia content of longer length. Alternatively the sensor may detect the presence or absence of a condition in response to another sensor detecting a condition. For example one sensor may detect whether the display screen of the mobile device is face down or closed in response to another sensor detecting that the mobile device has been resting in place for a predetermined period of time.

Referring back to once the stream for the second version of the multimedia content begins to be received by the mobile device the microprocessor executing the multimedia streaming program on the mobile device may at coordinate the transition from providing the first version of the multimedia content to the touch screen display video and the speaker audio to providing the second version to the speaker only. The transition from the first version of the multimedia content to the second version of the multimedia content may be made such that the playing of the multimedia content is not halted or restarted. For example the microprocessor executing the multimedia streaming program may determine a time value frame number or other measure of the progress made in providing the first version of the multimedia content identify a multimedia location in the second version of the multimedia content that corresponds to the progress made in the first version stop providing of the first version and begin the providing of the second version at the multimedia location that corresponds to the progress made in providing the first version.

While the second version of the multimedia content is being provided to the speaker the microprocessor of the mobile device may continue to monitor the sensors and and the activity state. If the current activity state of the mobile device indicative of the desirability of the first version of the multimedia content being transmitted to the mobile device from the server and being provided by the mobile device the microprocessor may perform additional operations to transition from providing the second version of the multimedia content to the first version of the multimedia content.

In other examples the server may help the mobile device transition from providing one version of the multimedia content to providing another different version. For example is a flow diagram illustrating an example of another intelligent streaming process . Although shows a number of operations other examples may include additional operations fewer operations or substitute operations.

In the example of the memory module of the server stores or has access to at least two versions of the multimedia content available to the mobile device . For example the two versions may be stored on the memory module of the server or stored on another system. The first version may contain both the video content and the associated audio content while the second version may contain only the audio content. In another example the network interface may directed by the processor to retrieve the first version that contains video content and the associated audio content. The processor executing software stored on the memory module may generate a second version of the multimedia content by extracting the associated audio content or removing the video content from the first version of the multimedia content. Both versions of the multimedia content may be stored on the memory module . Alternately the server may have access to and store an audio only version of the multimedia content without generating the audio only version from a version that contains both audio and video. If the server is a gateway server or the like that receives the multimedia content from another server or the like the server may receive both portions but extract and send only the audio portion through the mobile network to the mobile device based on the appropriate communication regarding activity state from the mobile device.

At the mobile device may request via the digital transceiver the first version of the multimedia content that includes both the video portion and the associated audio portion. The first version may be explicitly identified in a request transmitted to the server or understood by the server to be the default or initial version of the multimedia content. In response to receiving the request network interface of the server may begin transmitting the first version to the digital transceiver of mobile device at . At the mobile device may begin streaming the first version of the multimedia content as it is being received from the server using for example the touch screen display and the speaker .

While the first version is being transmitted to the mobile device at the microprocessor executing the multimedia streaming program on the mobile device may determine whether there has been a change in the current activity state of the mobile device. The current activity state may include information such as an indication that another version of the multimedia content should be transmitted to the mobile device an indication that the user is no longer viewing the video portion of the multimedia content an indication that the user does not wish to view the video portion of the multimedia content a progress indicator representing the how much of the multimedia content has been provided by the mobile device e.g. a time elapsed a frame in the multimedia content etc. and or one or more of the signals or conditions detected by the mobile device s sensors or .

As described above the sensors may be configured to detect for example whether the touch screen display of the mobile device is face down closed as in the case of a clam shell type mobile device or laptop or otherwise oriented such that no viewing of the video content on the display may occur whether a user s face or eyes are located in an area capable of viewing the video content or the display whether the user has the mobile device held up against the user s face or in front of the user s face or whether the user has put the mobile device down. The sensors may also be configured to detect whether an active user interface element e.g. a window or other user interface element on the display is showing the multimedia content whether the user interface element displaying the multimedia content is minimized whether the mobile device is in a locked or power saving state or whether the mobile device s display is on or has been turned off.

In one variation if the microprocessor executing the multimedia streaming program on the mobile device detects that a change in the activity state of the mobile device has occurred the microprocessor may determine whether the second version of the multimedia content e.g. the version with the associated audio content only should be provided to the mobile device . If the second version should be provided at the microprocessor may direct the digital transceiver to transmit a status report to the server . The status report may include a request for the second version of the multimedia content and a progress indicator e.g. a time stamp or frame number regarding the providing of the multimedia content on the mobile device .

Once the status report is received by network interface of the server the processor executing software stored on the memory module may retrieve the second version of the multimedia content and at identify a segment of the second version that corresponds to the current progress of the mobile device in providing of the multimedia content. For example the processor may select the segment of the second version based on the time stamp or frame number in the progress indicator plus an additional amount of time or number of frames that accounts for the delay from transmitting the status report to receiving the second version of the multimedia content. The additional amount of time or number of frames may be a predefined value or calculated dynamically based on factors such as processor load bandwidth congestion or other factors affecting the timing of communications and processing.

According to another variation however the status report may not include a progress indicator. Instead the processor may determine the progress of providing the multimedia content to the mobile device based on the progress made in transmitting the first version of the multimedia content to the mobile device . The processor may then identify the segment of the second version based on the progress made in transmitting the first version of the multimedia content to the mobile device . For example the processor may determine that the portion of the first version of the multimedia content corresponds to a particular time stamp or frame number. The processor may then identify a segment of the second version that begins at the particular time stamp or frame number. At the network interface of the server can stop transmitting the first version to the mobile device and at begin transmitting the segment of the second version to the mobile device .

In another variation if the microprocessor on the mobile device detects that a change in the activity state of the mobile device has occurred the mobile device s digital transceiver may transmit the status report to the server . The status report may include information regarding the current progress of the providing of the multimedia content on the mobile device the current activity state of the mobile device or any signals or conditions detected by the mobile device s sensors or that may indicate that the user is no longer viewing or does not wish to view the video portion of the multimedia content. Once the status report is received at the server the server s processor may determine whether or not to switch from transmitting the first version of the multimedia content to transmitting the second version based on the signals or conditions in the status report received from the mobile device . If the processor determines that a switch is needed at the processor may identify the segment of the second version that corresponds to the current progress of the mobile device in providing of the multimedia content and at direct the network interface to stop transmitting the first version of the multimedia content to the mobile device and begin transmitting the segment of the second version to the mobile device .

Once the second version of the multimedia content begins to be received by the mobile device s digital transceiver at the microprocessor executing the multimedia streaming program may transition the mobile device from providing the first version of the multimedia content to the touch screen display video and the speaker audio to providing the second version to the speaker only. Furthermore as the second version of the multimedia content is being provided the microprocessor may continue monitoring the activity state of the mobile device and direct the digital transceiver to transmit the status report to the server such that the streaming of the multimedia content may transition back to the first version if necessary.

At the digital transceiver of the mobile device may transmit a request for the unmodified multimedia content that includes both the video portion and the associated audio portion. The network interface may receive the request and at processor may direct the network interface to begin transmitting the multimedia content to the mobile device. Once the multimedia content begins to be received by the digital transceiver at the mobile device at the touch screen display and the speaker may begin providing the video portion as well as the associated audio portion of the multimedia content as it is being received from the server .

At as discussed with respect to previous examples the microprocessor executing the multimedia streaming program on the mobile device may determine whether there has been a change in the current activity state of the mobile device. If the microprocessor detects that a change in the activity state of the mobile device has occurred the microprocessor may direct the digital transceiver to transmit the status report to the server at .

Based on the status report received from the mobile device by the server s network interface the processor executing software stored on the memory module may determine whether a version of the multimedia content that does not include the video content is requested by or should be provided to the mobile device . If a version of the multimedia content that does not include the video content is called for the processor may extract the audio content from the multimedia content at . The network interface may then stop transmitting the version of the multimedia content that includes the video and begin transmitting the extracted audio content to the mobile device at . In another variation the processor may remove the video portion of the multimedia content instead of extracting the audio portion and the multimedia content without the video portion may be transmitted to the mobile device . The new version of the multimedia content may also be stored on the memory module for later use in some cases.

Once the second version of the multimedia content begins to be received by the digital transceiver of the mobile device the microprocessor may transition the mobile device from providing the both the audio and video portions of the multimedia content to providing the multimedia content without the video portion at . The microprocessor may continue monitoring the activity state of the mobile device and direct the digital transceiver to transmit the status report to the server such that the streaming of the multimedia content may transition back to providing both the video portion and the associated audio portion of the multimedia content if necessary.

Although to illustrate different examples aspects of each example may also apply to different examples. Furthermore the steps described in those examples may occur in different orders or in parallel in some cases as the operations as outlined with respect to to were described by way of example only.

In some cases the processor may store an indication e.g. a time stamp or frame number of the progress made in transmitting the first version of the multimedia content that includes the video content and the associated audio content in the memory module . The indication stored in the memory module may be used to resume providing the first version of the multimedia content at the location where the first version was last stopped. For example as described above the processor may either automatically or in response to user input stop transmitting the first version of the multimedia content to the mobile device and begin transmitting the second version of the multimedia content. The mobile device will in turn stop providing the first version of the multimedia content and begin providing the second version.

In certain situations at some time after the first version of the multimedia content is stopped streaming the user may wish to resume experiencing the first version of the multimedia content. For example the user listening to the audio portion of the multimedia content without viewing the video portion may realize that viewing the video portion is desirable. The microprocessor executing the multimedia streaming program on the mobile device may direct the touch screen display to present a user interface element that enables the user to select the option of resuming the streaming of the first version of the multimedia content including the video content and the associated audio content from the place where the first version was stopped. Based on a user selection of the option the mobile device may transmit a request to provide the first version of the multimedia content from the place where the first version was stopped. Upon receiving the request via the network interface the server processor may determine a location in the first version of the multimedia content based on the indication of progress stored in the memory module and begin transmitting the first version of the multimedia content to the mobile device from that location.

According to some examples the mobile device may also be configured to receive user input and intelligently stream multimedia content based on the user input. In one example the microprocessor executing the multimedia streaming program on the mobile device may direct the touch screen display to present a user interface element that allows a user of the mobile device to enable intelligent streaming of multimedia content. If the user through the touch screen display enables intelligent streaming the microprocessor may direct the sensors or to begin monitoring conditions and signals that may indicate that the video portion of the multimedia content should not be streamed.

In another example when certain conditions or signals are detected by the sensors or the microprocessor executing the multimedia streaming program on the mobile device may direct the touch screen display to present a user interface element that notifies a user of the mobile device of different functionalities and allows the user to select a desired functionality. For example the user interface element may allow the user to select the option to receive an audio only version of the multimedia content or to terminate the streaming of the multimedia content with later restoration of the stream possible . In some aspects the user interface element may be presented to the user depending on what condition or signal is detected by the sensors or . For example if the touch screen display or another display has been shut down the user interface element may not be presented to the user. On the other hand if the user has changed active windows from the window in which the multimedia content is being displayed to another window the microprocessor may cause the user interface element to be displayed on the touch screen display .

In another example before a status report is sent to the server the microprocessor executing the multimedia streaming program on the mobile device may direct the touch screen display to present a user interface element that notifies the user of the status report and requests instructions to send the status report to the server . The status report may then be sent to the server if it is instructed by the user through the touch screen display .

In still another example before the stream is switched from one version of multimedia content to another version of the multimedia content the microprocessor may direct the touch screen display to present a user interface element that requests authorization from the user to switch to the other version. Only if the user through the touch screen display authorizes the switch will the mobile device work with the server as described above to transition from providing one version of the multimedia content to the other version.

Although the examples illustrated in to have the first version of the multimedia content containing the video portion and the associated audio portion and the second version containing only the audio portion in other examples the initial version of the multimedia content delivered to the mobile device may be the version of the multimedia content containing only the audio portion and not the video portion. For example before beginning a streaming session the microprocessor of the mobile device executing the multimedia streaming program may determine that the current activity state of the mobile device indicative of the desirability of the version of the multimedia content containing the audio content without the video content being transmitted from the server to the mobile device . Accordingly the digital transceiver may transmit a request for the version of the multimedia content containing the audio content without the video content such that the mobile device may begin the streaming session providing the version of the multimedia content containing only the audio portion via the speaker . If the activity state of the mobile device changes to indicate that the video content should be received the version of the multimedia content containing the video portion as well as the audio portion may be transmitted to the mobile device and provided.

A general purpose computer configured as a server for example includes a data communication interface for packet data communication. The server computer also includes a central processing unit CPU in the form of one or more processors for executing program instructions. The server platform typically includes an internal communication bus program storage and data storage for various data files to be processed and or communicated by the server although the server often receives programming and data via network communications. The hardware elements operating systems and programming languages of such servers are conventional in nature. Of course the server functions may be implemented in a distributed fashion on a number of similar platforms to distribute the processing load. In this case one or more such computer hardware platforms would run server programming for example to provide multimedia content e.g. server function as a gateway e.g. server etc. for streaming compunction through a network to a mobile device e.g. to as illustrated in .

The server software functionalities involve programming including executable code and possibly associated stored multimedia content data. The software code is executable by the central processing unit or other processor of the computer configured as the particular server. In operation the code is stored within the server computer device. At other times however the software may be stored at other locations and or transported for loading into the appropriate server computer or system. Execution of such code by a processor of the server computer enables the server to perform functions of receiving requests or messages from a mobile device and streaming multimedia content to the mobile device through the mobile traffic network in essentially the manner performed in the implementations discussed and illustrated herein.

A user terminal such as a general purpose personal computer or a mobile device typically comprises a central processor or other processing device an internal communication bus various types of memory or storage multimedia RAM ROM EEPROM cache memory disk or flash drives for mass storage etc. for code and data storage and one or more network or communication interfaces or ports for communication purposes. The software functionalities involve programming including executable code as well as associated stored data e.g. files used for applications on the mobile device to process the instructions and or multimedia content received from the network. The software code is executable by the mobile device. In operation the code is stored within the mobile device. At other times however the software may be stored at other locations and or transported for loading into the appropriate mobile device system. Execution of such code by a processor of the mobile device enables the mobile device to perform functions of receiving content from a multimedia server through the mobile traffic network in essentially the manner performed in the implementations discussed and illustrated herein.

Hence aspects of the methods of stopping and or restarting the transmission of the video portion of multimedia content being streamed when a user s activity or lack thereof on a mobile device indicates that the user is not viewing the video may be implemented in appropriate programming for the mobile device and or the appropriate network connected server. In some cases only the audio portion of multimedia content is streamed. Program aspects of the technology may be thought of as products or articles of manufacture typically in the form of executable code and or associated data that is carried on or embodied in a type of non transitory machine readable medium or in other media.

While the foregoing has described what are considered to be the best mode and or other examples it is understood that various modifications may be made therein and that the subject matter disclosed herein may be implemented in various forms and examples and that the teachings may be applied in numerous applications only some of which have been described herein. It is intended by the following claims to claim any and all applications modifications and variations that fall within the true scope of the present teachings.

Unless otherwise stated all measurements values ratings positions magnitudes sizes and other specifications that are set forth in this specification including in the claims that follow are approximate not exact. They are intended to have a reasonable range that is consistent with the functions to which they relate and with what is customary in the art to which they pertain.

The scope of protection is limited solely by the claims that now follow. That scope is intended and should be interpreted to be as broad as is consistent with the ordinary meaning of the language that is used in the claims when interpreted in light of this specification and the prosecution history that follows and to encompass all structural and functional equivalents. Notwithstanding none of the claims are intended to embrace subject matter that fails to satisfy the requirement of Sections 101 102 or 103 of the Patent Act nor should they be interpreted in such a way. Any unintended embracement of such subject matter is hereby disclaimed.

Except as stated immediately above nothing that has been stated or illustrated is intended or should be interpreted to cause a dedication of any component step feature object benefit advantage or equivalent to the public regardless of whether it is or is not recited in the claims.

It will be understood that the terms and expressions used herein have the ordinary meaning as is accorded to such terms and expressions with respect to their corresponding respective areas of inquiry and study except where specific meanings have otherwise been set forth herein. Relational terms such as first and second and the like may be used solely to distinguish one entity or action from another without necessarily requiring or implying any actual such relationship or order between such entities or actions. The terms comprises comprising or any other variation thereof are intended to cover a non exclusive inclusion such that a process method article or apparatus that comprises a list of elements does not include only those elements but may include other elements not expressly listed or inherent to such process method article or apparatus. An element proceeded by a or an does not without further constraints preclude the existence of additional identical elements in the process method article or apparatus that comprises the element.

The Abstract of the Disclosure is provided to allow the reader to quickly ascertain the nature of the technical disclosure. It is submitted with the understanding that it will not be used to interpret or limit the scope or meaning of the claims. In addition in the foregoing Detailed Description it can be seen that various features are grouped together in various embodiments for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure. This method of disclosure is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed embodiments require more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather as the following claims reflect inventive subject matter lies in less than all features of a single disclosed embodiment. Thus the following claims are hereby incorporated into the Detailed Description with each claim standing on its own as a separately claimed subject matter.

