---

title: ZnO buffer layer for metal films on silicon substrates
abstract: Dramatic improvements in metallization integrity and electroceramic thin film performance can be achieved by the use of the ZnO buffer layer to minimize interfacial energy between metallization and adhesion layers. In particular, the invention provides a substrate metallization method utilizing a ZnO adhesion layer that has a high work of adhesion, which in turn enables processing under thermal budgets typically reserved for more exotic ceramic, single-crystal, or metal foil substrates. Embodiments of the present invention can be used in a broad range of applications beyond ferroelectric capacitors, including microelectromechanical systems, micro-printed heaters and sensors, and electrochemical energy storage, where integrity of metallized silicon to high temperatures is necessary.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08835023&OS=08835023&RS=08835023
owner: Sandia Corporation
number: 08835023
owner_city: Albuquerque
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120813
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 526 103 filed Aug. 22 2011 which is incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was made with Government support under contract no. DE AC04 94AL85000 awarded by the U.S. Department of Energy to Sandia Corporation. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates to ZnO buffered metallized substrates that can provide electroceramic thin film stacks with improved remanent ferroelectric polarization and dielectric properties.

Enabling broad impact utilizing the tremendously varied properties available in complex oxide thin films requires a means of integration on technologically relevant substrates specifically mainstream semiconductors such as silicon. Many such devices require substrate metallization to form electrical contacts and the most widely and technologically relevant is platinum coated silicon. Platinized silicon offers great flexibility in being chemically inert in contact with many oxides compatible with moderate processing temperatures in oxidizing inert or moderately reducing atmosphere thus requiring little or no process alteration for integration with any of a variety of complex oxide film systems and is relatively inexpensive when used in thin layers. As such while optimization of electrode and or substrate film interactions is emphasized for complex oxides deposited on base metals oxide electrodes and exotic substrates the electrode substrate interface is too often simply ignored or at best considered entirely inert passive observers in the integration process in the vast majority of work on platinized silicon.

In spite of the extensive earlier efforts toward preparing high quality temperature stable platinized silicon substrates for ferroelectric memory integration several issues remain that are detrimental to the deposited oxide properties. The most pervasive of these are thermophysical instabilities at temperatures in excess of 700 C. including delamination and hillocking as well as diffusion of adhesion layers through the platinum these defects often cause degraded performance and can result in inoperable devices. See H. N. Al Shareef et al. 12 347 1997 . Additionally the presumed 700 C. limit for thermal processing of films on platinum coated silicon substrates has been highlighted as the primary source of the chasm between the poor measured properties of refractory oxides such as BaTiOfilms on silicon wafers and the bulk like behavior that has been achieved by processing these films at higher temperatures on other substrates. See S. M. Aygun et al. 109 034108 2011 and J. F. Ihlefeld et al. 103 074112 2008 . Extensive research efforts by many groups have investigated the causes of and solutions to these issues. Several reports indicate that zirconium tantalum titanium oxide and aluminum oxide adhesion layers are superior to the more common titanium in terms of lower diffusivity through the platinum layer limited reaction with the underlying substrate and a lack of polymorphic phase changes over the desired processing temperature range resulting in fewer mechanical defects delamination roughening and hillocking . See H. N. Al Shareef et al. 12 347 1997 S. H. Kim et al. 76 496 2000 T. Maeder et al. 1 37 2007 1998 G. R. Fox and K. Suu U.S. Pat. No. 6 682 772 K. Sreenivas et al. 75 232 1994 and S. Halder et al. 87 705 2007 . These advances notwithstanding titanium adhesion layers remain the most widespread.

Therefore a need remains for an adhesion layer that can be used to metallize a silicon substrate and is compatible with high temperature processing.

The present invention is directed to a metallized substrate comprising a silicon substrate a ZnO buffer layer on the silicon substrate and a metal layer on the ZnO buffer layer. The metal layer can comprise a noble metal such as platinum gold or palladium or a relatively noble metal such as copper silver or nickel. An electroceramic thin film stack can further comprise a complex oxide layer such as BaTiO Pb Zr Ti O SrBiTaO BiFeO BiTiO or Bi Na TiO or a doped complex oxide layer on the metallized stack. The invention is further directed to a method of preparing an electroceramic thin film stack comprising providing an oxidized silicon substrate depositing a ZnO buffer layer on the silicon substrate depositing a metal layer on the ZnO buffer layer depositing a complex oxide layer on the metal layer and annealing the stack at a sufficiently high temperature to achieve bulk like behavior of the complex oxide i.e. dielectric or ferroelectric response similar to that of a bulk ceramic . The minimum annealing temperature to achieve bulk like behavior is greater than about 600 C. for a complex oxide layer comprising Pb Zr Ti Oand greater than about 800 C. for a complex oxide layer comprising BaTiO.

Dramatic improvements in metallization integrity and electroceramic thin film performance can be achieved by the use of the ZnO buffer layer to minimize interfacial energy between metallization and adhesion layers. Improved ferroelectric and dielectric response has been demonstrated in two exemplary ferroelectric thin film materials PZT and BaTiO. This enhanced performance correlates to greatly improved chemical homogeneity which is a direct result of deposition on ZnO buffered substrates. The invention has broad implications for electroceramic thin film synthesis. In particular the invention provides a substrate metallization method utilizing an adhesion layer that has a high work of adhesion which in turn enables processing under thermal budgets typically reserved for more exotic ceramic single crystal or metal foil substrates. Embodiments of the present invention can be used in a broad range of applications beyond ferroelectric capacitors including microelectromechanical systems micro printed heaters and sensors and electrochemical energy storage where integrity of metallized silicon to high temperatures is necessary.

A long standing challenge to the widespread application of complex oxide thin films is the stable and robust integration of noble metal electrodes such as platinum which remains the optimal choice for numerous applications. The present invention is directed to a metallized substrate comprising an improved adhesion layer as shown in . The metallized substrate comprises an oxidized silicon substrate a ZnO buffer layer on the silicon substrate and a metal layer on the ZnO buffer layer . In general the metal is preferably remains conductive and when processed at high temperatures. For example the metal layer can comprise a noble metal such as platinum gold or palladium or a relatively noble metal such as copper silver or nickel. The metallized substrate can further comprise a complex oxide layer on the metal layer . For example the complex oxide layer can be BaTiO Pb Zr Ti O SrBiTaO BiFeO BiTiO or Bi Na TiO or a doped complex oxide. For example dopants for doped Pb Zr Ti Ocan include La Dy Nd Ta Sn Sr and Ba. For example dopants for doped BaTiOcan include Sr Ca Zr Sn Mn Mg Al and Y. By considering both work of adhesion and stability against chemical diffusion the use of a ZnO buffer layer enables dramatic improvements in the properties of the overlying functional oxide films. Using BaTiOand Pb Zr Ti Ofilms as exemplary complex oxides as described below the use of ZnO as the adhesion layer leads directly to increased process temperature capabilities and dramatic improvements in chemical homogeneity of the oxide films. These result in significant property enhancements e.g. 300 improvement to bulk like permittivity for the BaTiOfilms of oxide films prepared on Pt ZnO as compared to conventional Pt Ti and Pt TiOstacks. A comparison of electrical structural and chemical properties demonstrate the impact of adhesion layer chemistry on the chemical homogeneity of the overlying complex oxide is described below. In addition to satisfying the simple need for adhesion metal oxide layers between noble metals and silicon can have tremendous chemical impact on the terminal complex oxide layers.

Considerations for proper adhesion layers include chemical compatibility with the substrate and the metal electrode phase stability interfacial energy and stability against chemical diffusion. Many previously investigated materials in their oxide form do not form low energy interfaces with common electrode metals. Large contact angles 120 and concomitantly low work of adhesion values 

To test the applicability of ZnO as an adhesion layer for platinized silicon substrates a series of platinum films on thermally oxidized silicon substrates were prepared with traditional titanium titanium oxide and zinc oxide buffers via radiofrequency RF magnetron sputtering. The general structure was as follows 100 nm Platinum 40 nm buffer 400 nm SiO 001 oriented silicon. Titanium and titanium oxide films were prepared by sputtering from a titanium target. Titanium oxide was formed by heating the titanium coated substrate in vacuo to 400 C. in 15 mTorr of oxygen for 30 minutes as the precise phase and oxidation state is unknown the titanium oxide buffer is denoted as TiOherein. See H. N. Al Shareef et al. 12 347 1997 . Zinc oxide buffer layers were deposited from a sintered ceramic target. All buffer layers were capped with platinum without breaking vacuum. In each case predominantly 111 oriented platinum was observed via X ray diffraction. For the ZnO buffered film only the peak attributed to the 0002 reflection of ZnO could be observed indicating that the ZnO was deposited with a preferential c axis orientation.

To investigate the thermal stability platinum films were processed ex situ in air by annealing at temperatures ranging from 500 C. to 900 C. for 1 hour. shows representative scanning electron microscopy SEM images for the platinum films annealed at 700 800 and 900 C. with the three different buffer layers. Distinct differences in the platinum microstructure with adhesion layer and annealing temperature can be observed. For films processed on titanium buffer layers a microstructure showing voids in the platinum layer is evident at 800 C. with significant dewetting occurring by 900 C. Films on TiObuffer layers appear to be more robust and exhibit dewetting behavior at 900 C. Small dark areas at the platinum grain boundaries are observed in the SEM images for the films on titanium and TiObuffer layers. This is consistent with electron emission from a lower atomic number material and is indicative of the presence of titanium on the surface as has been observed by previous researchers. See G. R. Fox et al. 10 1508 1995 . For each processing condition films on ZnO buffer layers display very few voids in the platinum layer and possess larger platinum grains. This data is consistent with platinum preferentially wetting the ZnO adhesion layer.

To assess the performance of the ZnO buffered platinized silicon substrates for complex oxide thin film applications traditional ferroelectric thin films PbZrTiO PZT and BaTiO were prepared via chemical solution deposition CSD on each of the titanium TiO and ZnO buffered substrates. PbZrTiOsolutions were prepared via an inverted mixing order chelate chemistry described elsewhere. See R. A. Assink and R. W. Schwartz 5 511 1993 . Titanium isopropoxide and zirconium butoxide 80 in butanol were combined and chelated with 4 molar equivalents of acetic acid. Methanol was added and the solution heated to 90 C. and 20 mole percent excess lead IV acetate was added and dissolved. The solution was then cooled to room temperature and diluted with sequential additions of methanol and acetic acid resulting in a 0.4 M solution. Films were deposited via spin casting at 3000 RPM for 30 seconds and then placed on a 350 C. hotplate for 1 minute and the process repeated three times. The films were then annealed at 700 C. in air for 10 minutes for crystallization. BaTiOsolutions were prepared via a chelate chemistry chemical solution technique based on previous studies. See S. Hoffmann and R. Waser 19 1339 1999 and R. W. Schwartz et al. 82 2359 1999 . Titanium isopropoxide was chelated with 2 molar equivalents of 2 4 pentanedione at room temperature. Separately a molar excess of barium acetate was dissolved in propionic acid at a concentration of 0.25 M. The barium precursor solution was then added to the titanium precursor in an amount necessary for a stoichiometric 1 1 barium titanium ratio. The solution was then diluted to 0.15 M with methanol. Films were deposited via spin casting at 3000 RPM for 30 seconds and subsequently placed on a 250 C. hotplate for 5 minutes for solvent evaporation and gel consolidation. This spin and hotplate anneal process was repeated twice and then the films were fired in air to 900 C. for 30 minutes with 20 C. per minute ramp rates. Film thickness was increased by repeating this process two times for a total of 9 spin cast layers. For both PZT and BaTiOfilms platinum top electrodes 100 nm thick and 1 mmwere deposited via RF magnetron sputtering through a shadow mask. Electrode areas were verified by optical microscopy and image analysis. PZT films were processed at 700 C. as is conventional for device quality material and BaTiOfilms were processed at 900 C. a condition that is traditionally unattainable on platinized silicon substrates and that has previously been shown to enable bulk like dielectric responses. See G. L. Brennecka et al. 93 3935 2010 and J. Ihlefeld et al. 14 95 2005 .

As shown in X ray diffraction data for the PZT films reveals phase pure material with peaks only attributable to the film and substrate layers. The films possess no preferred crystallographic orientation as the peak intensity ratios are consistent with a powder sample. The lack of texture likely stems from the rapid heating rate used during crystallization. See K. Nittala et al. 54 2011 . shows plan view and cross sectional SEM images of the PZT films on each substrate. The films are composed of a dense columnar microstructure with slight differences in the average grain lateral dimensions spanning 87 27 nm 80 9 nm and 109 9 nm for Ti TiO and ZnO buffered films respectively. Evidence of a surface fluorite secondary phase is observed on the Ti buffered films for these processing conditions and result in increased error in grain size measurements. The cause of this is unclear however it appears to be present as a very thin discontinuous layer on the film surface and is generally associated with lead deficiency. See B. A. Tuttle et al. 7 1876 1992 and I. M. Reaney et al. 77 1209 1994 . In cross section the differences in the substrate metallization can be appreciated. The titanium layer in the Ti buffered film shows evidence of roughening likely due to oxidation and grain growth whereas the TiO and ZnO buffer layers remain relatively smooth. This is consistent with relatively smooth platinum films at these temperatures as investigated in the ex situ annealing study.

Polarization electric field measurements were performed to assess the ferroelectric properties of the PZT films on the different substrates. Nested hysteresis loops were measured at 10 Hz for each film with the results shown in . In each case well saturating loops are observed suggesting minimal contributions from electrical leakage. Remanent polarization and coercive field values for films on each substrate are noted on the figures. In comparing these values a performance improvement on the ZnO buffered substrates becomes evident a remanent polarization increase of nearly 35 from 23 C cmto 32 C cmis observed between the traditional Ti and the ZnO buffered films. This increase in remanent polarization is accompanied by a decrease in coercive field from 47 kV cmto 43.8 kV cm. In addition to enhanced ferroelectric response dielectric properties also are enhanced. shows permittivity versus applied electric field measurements for each film. Nearly identical high field response is observed with permittivities saturating to approximately 260 at 500 kV cmand loss tangents of 0.015 1.5 . At low fields increases in the magnitude of the responses are observed as the zero bias and peak permittivities increase when the buffer changes from titanium to TiOand ZnO respectively with the film on ZnO buffered platinum having a zero bias value of ca. 1600 and peak value approaching 2000 at the coercive field. Enhancements in both dielectric constant and polarization coupled with the random crystallographic orientations of all films demonstrate that a simple crystallographic texturing argument cannot explain the improvements afforded through the use of the ZnO buffered substrate.

From the substrate annealing study mechanical integrity of the ZnO buffered films persisted to higher temperatures as would be expected for a metal oxide system with a high work of adhesion. To assess the high temperature applicability of these substrates BaTiOfilms were prepared and processed to 900 C. X ray diffraction patterns for each film are shown in in each case phase pure randomly oriented material is observed. Plan view and cross sectional SEM images for BaTiOfilms on each substrate are shown in . Similar ceramic film microstructures are observed for each film. Average grain diameters for the BaTiOfilms are 44 4 nm 62 6 nm and 55 11 nm for Ti TiO and ZnO buffered films respectively. As was observed for the PZT films microstructural differences are identified in the electrode stacks in cross section. Both the Ti and TiO buffered platinum layers appear rough and possess voids. The platinum film on ZnO however remains relatively smooth consistent with the platinum annealing study and a low wetting angle. The cross sectional microstructure of the BaTiOfilms reveals finite porosity levels that are uniformly distributed throughout the thickness for each film. Some thickness differences are observed with average film values of 215 202 and 178 nm for films on Ti TiO and ZnO buffered substrates respectively indicating possible improved density for films on TiO and ZnO buffered substrates. Some fine cracks are visible in the plan view image and are likely due to the high coefficient of thermal expansion mismatch between BaTiOand silicon. See T. Lipinsky et al. 22 913 2005 .

Fine cracks such as those seen in these BaTiOfilms preclude high field measurements. However temperature dependence of the dielectric response is a broadly accepted means to characterize BaTiO based materials. The dielectric properties were compared for the BaTiOfilms by performing temperature dependent permittivity and dielectric loss measurements between 180 and 500 K at 1 kHz as shown in . For each film the loss values remain less than 5 tan 

Unambiguous improvements in the ferroelectric and dielectric responses have been observed for both PZT and BaTiOfilms deposited on ZnO buffered substrates. The properties measured for PZT films appear to be the best reported to date. Likewise the permittivity approaching 1400 for the BaTiOfilm of grain size 55 nm falls on the grain size permittivity master curve that normally is reserved for well prepared fine grained bulk ceramics and thin films processed on base metal or refractory substrates and represents among the highest recorded values for a BaTiO based film deposited on a silicon substrate and possibly the highest devoid of a columnar grain morphology. See S. M. Aygun et al. 109 034108 2011 S. Halder et al. 87 705 2007 S. Hoffmann and R. Waser 19 1339 1999 and J. Sigman et al. 91 1851 2008 . This high permittivity is even more striking when considering the relatively low thickness of the film and the known thickness scaling effects in ferroelectric thin films. Given that the microstructural differences for films on each substrate are relatively minor similar grain dimensions and porosity levels some other attribute must be responsible. See C. B. Parker et al. 81 340 2002 .

To elucidate the differences resulting in the improved ferroelectric and dielectric performance on ZnO buffered substrates quantitative chemical mapping using multivariate statistical analysis MSA with energy dispersive spectroscopy in a scanning transmission electron microscope STEM EDS for the PZT and BaTiOfilms was conducted as described previously. See C. M. Parish et al. 91 3690 2008 . shows titanium composition maps and integrated distribution profiles for lead zirconium and titanium for the three PZT films on the different substrates. Distinct differences in the cation distributions are observed. The films processed on the titanium and TiObuffered substrates possess enriched concentrations of titanium near the platinum PZT interface while the film surfaces are enriched in both zirconium and lead. This inhomogeneous cation distribution has been observed by several groups depositing PZT via chemical solution routes and has been generally ascribed to the lower nucleation barrier for PbTiOon the platinum surface versus PbZrO. See A. Etin et al. 89 2387 2006 A. Dutschke et al. 24 1579 2004 K. Amanuma et al. 65 3140 1994 and F. Calame and P. Muralt 90 062907 2007 . The film deposited on the ZnO buffered platinum substrate shows virtually no composition gradient through the film thickness. In addition to the improved zirconium and titanium distributions lead also remains evenly distributed with no surface enrichment.

The improvements in chemical homogeneity for films on ZnO buffered substrates correspond directly with the enhancements in dielectric and ferroelectric properties. For the PZT films the highest remanent polarization and permittivity and lowest coercive fields were observed for films devoid of chemical gradients. In bulk ceramic materials peaks in remanent polarization and permittivity and a minimum in the coercive field are observed near the morphotropic phase boundary MPB compositions deviating by as much as 15 from the MPB particularly toward titanium rich compositions possess decreased polarization and permittivity and increased coercivity. See K. Carl and K. H. Hardtl 47 687 1970 and K. Carl and K. H. Hardtl 8 87 1971 . The chemically homogenous film has a composition very near this boundary while chemically heterogeneous films have compositions that deviate by several percent from the composition spatially throughout the film thickness. The diminishing properties scale similarly with those expected for non MPB compositions and this appears to be the primary cause of the observed trends. Likewise the dramatic improvements in BaTiOpermittivity appear to be directly related to the improved chemical homogeneity. Titanium rich BaTiOfilms processed to identical temperatures tend to possess severely diminished dielectric constants. This same phenomenon appears to be responsible for the limited dielectric permittivity in the films possessing a chemical gradient and apparent titanium enrichment.

Titanium from the titanium and TiObuffer layers likely diffuses through the platinum electrode and reacts with the PZT and BaTiOfilm precursors causing chemical heterogeneities that result in diminished ferroelectric and dielectric responses. While diffusion of titanium through the platinum film when using a titanium adhesion layer may be expected based upon previous work it is somewhat surprising that such an action would be observed from the TiOadhesion layers. See S. H. Kim et al. 76 496 2000 K. Sreenivas et al. 75 232 1994 G. R. Fox et al. 10 1508 1995 O. Auciello et al. 28 375 1998 and T. Tani et al. in Vol. 310 Eds E. R. Myers B. A. Tuttle S. B. Desu P. K. Larsen Materials Research Society Pittsburgh 269 1992 . The TiOlayer is likely oxygen deficient and titanium is diffusing through the platinum in order to reach a lower free energy oxide state. The presence of a fluorite phase on the surface of the PZT film on titanium buffered platinum is consistent with this model. Excess titanium diffusing from the adhesion layer would consume excess lead in the film effectively acting as a lead sink. This would result in net lead deficiency in the film which commonly manifests as finite amount of fluorite phase on the film surface. With the substitution of ZnO for titanium in the electrode stack not only is the integrity of the platinum electrode improved in both continuity and elimination of voids owing to improved wetting but additionally its chemical stability eliminates an extrinsic source of cations from diffusing into the overlaying film and allows for the fabrication of high quality chemically homogeneous complex oxide thin films.

Previous work on solution deposited PZT has shown chemical gradients in films with multiple deposition and firing steps resulting in a saw tooth composition profile. See F. Calame and P. Muralt 90 062907 2007 . Because these prior reports observed chemical gradients even in layers deposited directly on previously crystallized PZT layers and might therefore be expected to be free from chemical influence of the buffer layer this result would seem at odds with the observations that appear to directly link the presence of a chemical gradient with chemical influence from the buffer layer. However the solution chemistry described herein is different than the traditional methoxyethanol based sol gel chemistry used by other groups and this may have an influence on the crystallization behavior.

The present invention has been described as an improved metallized substrate comprising a ZnO buffer layer for metal films on silicon substrates. It will be understood that the above description is merely illustrative of the applications of the principles of the present invention the scope of which is to be determined by the claims viewed in light of the specification. Other variants and modifications of the invention will be apparent to those of skill in the art.

