---

title: Location based services
abstract: Methods, systems, and apparatus, including computer program products, for location-based services. An event or device condition is detected at a device. A current geographic location of a device is determined. Location-based information based on the determined current geographic location is received. The location-based information includes information relevant to the event or device condition. The information is presented.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08694026&OS=08694026&RS=08694026
owner: Apple Inc.
number: 08694026
owner_city: Cupertino
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121015
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 036 978 filed Feb. 25 2008 which claims priority benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 946 952 filed Jun. 28 2007 all of which are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety.

Conventional mobile devices are often dedicated to performing a specific application. For example a mobile phone provides telephony services a personal digital assistant PDA provides a way to organize address contacts and notes a media player plays content email devices provide email communication etc. Modern mobile devices can include two or more of these applications. Typically the two or more applications operate independent of one another. For example some mobile devices include a digital camera and access to various services available on the World Wide Web Web . Such devices however fail to integrate digital camera functions with network services to provide the user with an enriched user experience.

In general one aspect of the subject matter described in this specification can be embodied in methods that include the actions of detecting a picture taking event on a device determining a current geographic location of the device receiving location based information based on the determined current geographic location the location based information including information corresponding to one or more relevant businesses in a vicinity of the determined current geographic location and further including information corresponding to one or more businesses ancillary to the picture taking event and presenting the location based information. Other implementations can include corresponding systems apparatus devices and computer program products.

In general another aspect of the subject matter described in this specification can be embodied in methods that include the actions of detecting an event or device condition at a device determining a current geographic location of the device receiving location based information based on the determined current geographic location the location based information including information relevant to the event or device condition and presenting the information. Other implementations can include corresponding systems apparatus devices and computer program products.

In general another aspect of the subject matter described in this specification can be embodied in methods that include the actions of detecting an event or device condition at a device determining a current geographic location of the device receiving location based information based on the determined current geographic location the location based information including information corresponding to one or more relevant businesses in a vicinity of the determined current geographic location a relevant business being related to the event or device condition and presenting the information. Other implementations can include corresponding systems apparatus devices and computer program products.

Particular embodiments of the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented to realize one or more of the following advantages. Location information e.g. local businesses relevant to an event device condition or activities associated with particular times of the day is automatically retrieved and presented to a user of the device.

The details of one or more implementations of the subject matter described in this specification are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features aspects and advantages of the subject matter will become apparent from the description the drawings and the claims.

In some implementations the mobile device includes a touch sensitive display . The touch sensitive display can implement liquid crystal display LCD technology light emitting polymer display LPD technology or some other display technology. The touch sensitive display can be sensitive to haptic and or tactile contact with a user.

In some implementations the touch sensitive display can comprise a multi touch sensitive display . A multi touch sensitive display can for example process multiple simultaneous touch points including processing data related to the pressure degree and or position of each touch point. Such processing facilitates gestures and interactions with multiple fingers chording and other interactions. Other touch sensitive display technologies can also be used e.g. a display in which contact is made using a stylus or other pointing device. An example of a multi touch sensitive display technology is described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 323 846 6 570 557 6 677 932 and U.S. Patent Publication No. 2002 0015024A1 each of which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

In some implementations the mobile device can display one or more graphical user interfaces on the touch sensitive display for providing the user access to various system objects and for conveying information to the user. In some implementations the graphical user interface can include one or more display objects . Each of the display objects can be a graphic representation of a system object. Some examples of system objects include device functions applications windows files alerts events or other identifiable system objects.

In some implementations the mobile device can implement multiple device functionalities such as a telephony device as indicated by a phone object an e mail device as indicated by the e mail object a network data communication device as indicated by the Web object a Wi Fi base station device not shown and a media processing device as indicated by the media player object . In some implementations particular device objects e.g. the phone object the e mail object the Web object and the media player object can be displayed in a menu bar . In some implementations each of the device functionalities can be accessed from a top level graphical user interface such as the graphical user interface illustrated in . Touching one of the objects or can for example invoke the corresponding functionality.

In some implementations the mobile device can implement network distribution functionality. For example the functionality can enable the user to take the mobile device and its associated network while traveling. In particular the mobile device can extend Internet access e.g. via Wi Fi to other wireless devices in the vicinity. For example mobile device can be configured as a base station for one or more devices. As such mobile device can grant or deny network access to other wireless devices.

In some implementations upon invocation of particular device functionality the graphical user interface of the mobile device changes or is augmented or replaced with another user interface or user interface elements to facilitate user access to particular functions associated with the corresponding device functionality. For example in response to a user touching the phone object the graphical user interface of the touch sensitive display may present display objects related to various phone functions likewise touching of the email object may cause the graphical user interface to present display objects related to various e mail functions touching the Web object may cause the graphical user interface to present display objects related to various Web surfing functions and touching the media player object may cause the graphical user interface to present display objects related to various media processing functions.

In some implementations the top level graphical user interface environment or state of can be restored by pressing a button located near the bottom of the mobile device . In some implementations each corresponding device functionality may have corresponding home display objects displayed on the touch sensitive display and the graphical user interface environment of can be restored by pressing the home display object.

In some implementations the top level graphical user interface can include additional display objects such as a short messaging service SMS object a calendar object a photos object a camera object a calculator object a stocks object a weather object a maps object a notes object a clock object an address book object and a settings object . Touching the SMS display object can for example invoke an SMS messaging environment and supporting functionality. Likewise each selection of a display object and can invoke a corresponding object environment and functionality.

Additional and or different display objects can also be displayed in the graphical user interface of . For example if the device is functioning as a base station for other devices one or more connection objects may appear in the graphical user interface to indicate the connection. In some implementations the display objects can be configured by a user e.g. a user may specify which display objects are displayed and or may download additional applications or other software that provides other functionalities and corresponding display objects.

In some implementations the mobile device can include one or more input output I O devices and or sensor devices. For example a speaker and a microphone can be included to facilitate voice enabled functionalities such as phone and voice mail functions. In some implementations a loud speaker can be included to facilitate hands free voice functionalities such as speaker phone functions. An audio jack can also be included for use of headphones and or a microphone.

In some implementations a proximity sensor can be included to facilitate the detection of the user positioning the mobile device proximate to the user s ear and in response to disengage the touch sensitive display to prevent accidental function invocations. In some implementations the touch sensitive display can be turned off to conserve additional power when the mobile device is proximate to the user s ear.

Other sensors can also be used. For example in some implementations an ambient light sensor can be utilized to facilitate adjusting the brightness of the touch sensitive display . In some implementations an accelerometer can be utilized to detect movement of the mobile device as indicated by the directional arrow . Accordingly display objects and or media can be presented according to a detected orientation e.g. portrait or landscape. In some implementations the mobile device may include circuitry and sensors for supporting a location determining capability such as that provided by the global positioning system GPS or other positioning system e.g. systems using Wi Fi access points television signals cellular grids Uniform Resource Locators URLs . In some implementations a positioning system e.g. a GPS receiver can be integrated into the mobile device or provided as a separate device that can be coupled to the mobile device through an interface e.g. port device to provide access to location based services.

The mobile device can also include a camera lens and sensor . In some implementations the camera lens and sensor can be located on the back surface of the mobile device . The camera can capture still images and or video.

The mobile device can also include one or more wireless communication subsystems such as a 802.11b g communication device and or a Bluetooth communication device . Other communication protocols can also be supported including other 802.x communication protocols e.g. WiMax Wi Fi code division multiple access CDMA global system for mobile communications GSM Enhanced Data GSM Environment EDGE 3G e.g. EV DO UMTS HSDPA etc.

In some implementations a port device e.g. a Universal Serial Bus USB port or a docking port or some other wired port connection can be included. The port device can for example be utilized to establish a wired connection to other computing devices such as other communication devices a personal computer a printer or other processing devices capable of receiving and or transmitting data. In some implementations the port device allows the mobile device to synchronize with a host device using one or more protocols.

The mobile devices and can also establish communications by other means. For example the wireless device can communicate with other wireless devices e.g. other wireless devices cell phones etc. over the wireless network . Likewise the mobile devices and can establish peer to peer communications e.g. a personal area network by use of one or more communication subsystems such as the Bluetooth communication device shown in . Other communication protocols and topologies can also be implemented.

The mobile device can for example communicate with one or more services and and or one or more content publishers over the one or more wired and or wireless networks . For example a navigation service can provide navigation information e.g. map information location information route information and other information to the mobile device . In the example shown a user of the mobile device has invoked a map functionality e.g. by touching the maps object on the top level graphical user interface shown in and has requested and received a map for the location 1 Infinite Loop Cupertino Calif. 

A messaging service can for example provide e mail and or other messaging services. A media service can for example provide access to media files such as song files movie files video clips and other media data. A location based service can for example provide data or content based on a current location of the mobile device . One or more other services can also be utilized by the mobile device including a syncing service an activation service and a software update service that automatically determines whether software updates are available for software on the mobile device then downloads the software updates to the mobile device where the updates can be manually or automatically unpacked and or installed.

The mobile device can also access other data over the one or more wired and or wireless networks . For example content publishers such as news sites RSS feeds web sites blogs social networking sites developer networks etc. can be accessed by the mobile device . Such access can be provided by invocation of a web browsing function or application e.g. a browser in response to a user touching the Web object .

Sensors devices and subsystems can be coupled to the peripherals interface to facilitate multiple functionalities. For example a motion sensor a light sensor and a proximity sensor can be coupled to the peripherals interface to facilitate the orientation lighting and proximity functions described with respect to . Other sensors can also be connected to the peripherals interface such as a GPS receiver a temperature sensor a biometric sensor or other sensing device to facilitate related functionalities.

A camera subsystem and an optical sensor e.g. a charged coupled device CCD or a complementary metal oxide semiconductor CMOS optical sensor can be utilized to facilitate camera functions such as recording photographs and video clips.

Communication functions can be facilitated through one or more wireless communication subsystems which can include radio frequency receivers and transmitters and or optical e.g. infrared receivers and transmitters. The specific design and implementation of the communication subsystem can depend on the communication network s over which the mobile device is intended to operate. For example a mobile device may include communication subsystems designed to operate over a GSM network a GPRS network an EDGE network a 3G network a Wi Fi or WiMax network and a Bluetooth network. In particular the wireless communication subsystems may include hosting protocols such that the device may be configured as a base station for other wireless devices.

An audio subsystem can be coupled to a speaker and a microphone to facilitate voice enabled functions such as voice recognition voice replication digital recording and telephony functions.

The I O subsystem can include a touch screen controller and or other input controller s . The touch screen controller can be coupled to a touch screen . The touch screen and touch screen controller can for example detect contact and movement or break thereof using any of a plurality of touch sensitivity technologies including but not limited to capacitive resistive infrared and surface acoustic wave technologies as well as other proximity sensor arrays or other elements for determining one or more points of contact with the touch screen .

The other input controller s can be coupled to other input control devices such as one or more buttons rocker switches thumb wheel infrared port USB port and or a pointer device such as a stylus. The one or more buttons not shown can include an up down button for volume control of the speaker and or the microphone .

In one implementation a pressing of the button for a first duration may disengage a lock of the touch screen and a pressing of the button for a second duration that is longer than the first duration may turn power to the mobile device on or off. The user may be able to customize a functionality of one or more of the buttons. The touch screen can for example also be used to implement virtual or soft buttons and or a keyboard.

In some implementations the mobile device can present recorded audio and or video files such as MP3 AAC and MPEG files. In some implementations the mobile device can include the functionality of an MP3 player such as an iPod . The mobile device may therefore include a 36 pin connector that is compatible with the iPod. Other input output and control devices can also be used.

The memory interface can be coupled to memory . The memory can include high speed random access memory and or non volatile memory such as one or more magnetic disk storage devices one or more optical storage devices and or flash memory e.g. NAND NOR . The memory can store an operating system such as Darwin RTXC LINUX UNIX OS X WINDOWS or an embedded operating system such as VxWorks. The operating system may include instructions for handling basic system services and for performing hardware dependent tasks. In some implementations the operating system handles timekeeping tasks including maintaining the date and time e.g. a clock on the mobile device . In some implementations the operating system can be a kernel e.g. UNIX kernel .

The memory may also store communication instructions to facilitate communicating with one or more additional devices one or more computers and or one or more servers. The memory may include graphical user interface instructions to facilitate graphic user interface processing sensor processing instructions to facilitate sensor related processing and functions phone instructions to facilitate phone related processes and functions electronic messaging instructions to facilitate electronic messaging related processes and functions web browsing instructions to facilitate web browsing related processes and functions media processing instructions to facilitate media processing related processes and functions GPS Navigation instructions to facilitate GPS and navigation related processes and instructions camera instructions to facilitate camera related processes and functions other software instructions to facilitate other related processes and functions and or diagnostic instructions to facilitate diagnostic processes and functions.

The memory can also store data including but not limited to documents images video files audio files and other data.

In some implementations the mobile device includes a positioning system . In various implementations the positioning system can be provided by a separate device coupled to the mobile device or can be provided internal to the mobile device. In some implementations the positioning system can employ positioning technology including a GPS a cellular grid URIs or any other technology for determining the geographic location of a device. In some implementations the positioning system can employ a service provided by a positioning service such as for example SkyHook Wireless of Boston Mass. or Rosum Corporation of Mountain View Calif. In other implementations the positioning system can be provided by an accelerometer and a compass using dead reckoning techniques. In such implementations the user can occasionally reset the positioning system by marking the mobile device s presence at a known location e.g. a landmark or intersection . In still other implementations the user can enter a set of position coordinates e.g. latitude longitude for the mobile device. For example the position coordinates can be typed into the phone e.g. using a virtual keyboard or selected by touching a point on a map. Position coordinates can also be acquired from another device e.g. a car navigation system by syncing or linking with the other device. In other implementations the positioning system can be provided by using wireless signal strength and one or more locations of known wireless signal sources to provide the current location. Wireless signal sources can include access points and or cellular towers. Other techniques to determine a current location of the mobile device can be used and other configurations of the positioning system are possible.

Each of the above identified instructions and applications can correspond to a set of instructions for performing one or more functions described above. These instructions need not be implemented as separate software programs procedures or modules. The memory can include additional instructions or fewer instructions. Furthermore various functions of the mobile device may be implemented in hardware and or in software including in one or more signal processing and or application specific integrated circuits.

Graphical objects are displayed on the map representing the locations of businesses or other items of interest in the vicinity of the current location of the mobile device . In this implementation the graphical objects appear as push pins that are pinned to the map at their corresponding locations. In this example both push pins and are located along the route traveled by the user. In some implementations the user can define a setting within the mobile device for the map feature to specify a proximity condition that must be satisfied by a business before a push pin is shown on the map representing the business. For example the proximity condition can require that the business location be on the route traveled by the mobile device in order to be displayed on the map as a push pin. In another example the proximity condition can require that the business location be within a certain radius of the current location of the mobile device in order to be displayed on the map . In yet another example the proximity condition can require only that the contact s location be within the geographic parameters of the map displayed to the user in order to be displayed on the map . In such an example if the user selects to zoom out the map to display a larger geographical area then multiple other push pins may appear corresponding to locations within the larger geographical area.

The map and the businesses represented by graphical objects can be displayed to the user in response to particular events occurring at the mobile device or a clock on the mobile device reaching a particular time. Triggering events can include activation or deactivation of particular features or functions on the device e.g. activation of an image capture by the camera subsystem detection of a malfunction of the device a clock on the device reaching a time associated with a particular activity etc. . Further the types of businesses that are displayed can be based on the triggering event or condition. For example businesses offering photo processing services or other camera related services are displayed if the triggering event is the capture of an image on the camera of the device . As another example restaurants can be displayed if the triggering event is a clock of the device reaching a time associated with a meal e.g. noon for lunch . In some implementations businesses of different types can be displayed on the same map. For example the map can display businesses offering photo processing services e.g. push pin in and restaurants e.g. push pin in on the same map. Further details are described below in relation to .

Referring now to the map displays information corresponding to a photo processing business represented by graphical object . In some implementations the information is displayed in response to a user selection of the graphical object on the map . For example in one implementation where the mobile device includes a touch sensitive display e.g. touch sensitive display shown in the user can touch the push pin to display information associated with the business represented by the push pin . Similarly as shown in the map displays information corresponding to a restaurant represented by graphical object . Information can be displayed in response to a user selection of the graphical object on the map .

In some implementations the displayed information includes respectively the name of a business the address of the business and a phone number and or an email address of the business. Further in some implementations depending on the type of business represented by the graphical object the information or can include a hyperlink that facilitates transactions with the business associated with the information or . For example if the business is a photo processing business the hyperlink may be a link to order prints for pickup from the photo processing business. As another example the hyperlink can also be associated with a phone number of the business which when selected causes the telephone number to be automatically dialed. As a further example the hyperlink can be associated with a coupon associated with the business or other information associated with the business. Selecting the hyperlink triggers a presentation of the coupon or other information. In some implementations selecting the hyperlink triggers a sending of the coupon or other information e.g. an advertisement associated with the business to for example an email address of the user of the device.

An event or a condition on the device is detected . In some implementations the device can be configured to detect and or perform operations in response to the occurrence of particular events on the device or the satisfaction of particular conditions on the device.

In some implementations the detected event is a capture of an image by the camera subsystem . For example when a user of the device takes a picture using the camera subsystem and camera instructions the device detects the taking of the picture and can perform operations further described below in response to the taking of the picture. In some implementations the operations are triggered when at least multiple pictures are taken using the camera subsystem within a time period e.g. at least two pictures taken within an hour of each other . In some other implementations other user actions on the device can also be the triggering event.

In some implementations the detected event is a malfunction of a component or feature of the device or some other problem related to a component of the mobile device . For example the diagnostic instructions can perform a diagnostic test of the device automatically or in response to a user request. Identification of a malfunction of a component or feature of the device triggers further operations as described below. As another example if the user cannot take a picture because there is no memory available for the camera then the shortage of memory can be a detected event which could initiate the display of a nearby business selling electronics or camera supplies where the user can purchase additional memory e.g. a compact flash card .

In some implementations the detected satisfaction of a condition is the arrival of a time of day that is associated with a particular activity. For example when the clock arrives at a time associated with a meal e.g. 12 noon for lunch 7 PM for dinner further operations as described below are triggered.

A current geographic location of the device is determined . In response to an event or satisfaction of a condition the mobile device determines its current geographic location. In some implementations the device determines its current location using GPS or any other positioning system. In some implementations the current location as determined using GPS can be expressed in latitude longitude. In some implementations the device can optionally convert the latitude longitude of the current location to an address e.g. street city country by referencing a database of latitudes longitudes and locations that is stored in the memory for example.

In some other implementations the device can obtain its geographic position by other means. For example a device can obtain its position using cellular phone tower triangulation Wi Fi positioning a combination of GPS and other signals differential GPS and any other suitable technologies and techniques.

Location information related to the event or condition can be received based on the determined current geographic location . The mobile device can request from a navigation service or location based service for example a map of the vicinity of the determined current location where the map includes locations of businesses that are in the vicinity of the determined current geographic location and are related to the event or condition.

In some implementations the device sends a request to the navigation service or location service for a map of the area and relevant businesses in the area. For example if the event was a taking of one or more pictures by a user using a camera of the mobile device the device can request for and receive a map of the vicinity of the current geographic location of the device e.g. map and location information for businesses providing photo processing services in the vicinity marked on the map by graphical objects e.g. push pins . If the event or condition was a malfunction of the device the device can make a request for and receive a map of the vicinity of the current geographic location of the device e.g. map and location information for authorized service repair providers for the device in the vicinity marked on the map by graphical objects e.g. push pins . If the event or condition was the arrival of a time of day associated with a meal e.g. 12 Noon for lunch the device can request for and receive a map of the vicinity of the current geographic location of the device e.g. map and location information for restaurants in the vicinity marked on the map by graphical objects e.g. push pins .

In some implementations the user can configure the device to request location information related the current geographic location based on a history of locations to which the device has been located before. That is the detected condition is that the current geographic location matches a location in the location history. In an example implementation the device can store a history of locations that the device and presumably the user has been to before e.g. particular landmarks . The device can also store information related to one or more services or businesses near a previously visited location that had been displayed when the device had previously visited that location. If the current geographic location matches a previously visited location in the location history the device can make a request for and receive a map of the vicinity of the current geographic location and location information corresponding to services or businesses near the location that were previously displayed for that location.

In some implementations the user can configure the device to request location information for particular times of the day that are associated with particular activities. For example the user can specify that 4 PM is associated with afternoon tea and that the device should request location information related to coffee or tea shops when the time on the device is 4 PM.

The location information is presented . The received location information which includes the map and graphical objects corresponding to relevant businesses in the vicinity are presented to the user e.g. by displaying the information on the touch screen . The user can manipulate the map and select any of the graphical objects to request further information. For example if the user selects a graphical object on the map information corresponding to the business represented by the graphical object is displayed.

A picture taking event on the device is detected . For example a user of the mobile device can take a picture or capture an image using a camera e.g. camera subsystem of the device. The taking of the picture or the image capture is detected by the mobile device .

A current geographic location of the device is determined . In response to the picture taking event the mobile device determines its current geographic location. In some implementations the device determines its current location using GPS or any other positioning system. In some implementations the current location as determined using GPS can be expressed in latitude longitude. In some implementations the device can optionally convert the latitude longitude of the current location to an address e.g. street city country by referencing a database of latitudes longitudes and locations that is stored in the memory for example.

In some other implementations the device can obtain its geographic position by other means. For example a device can obtain its position using cellular phone tower triangulation Wi Fi positioning a combination of GPS and other signals differential GPS and any other suitable technologies and techniques.

In some implementations a current time and or date is determined. For example the device can read the time and date as maintained by the device . The determined time and date serves as a time and date of the picture taking event.

Locations of one or more relevant businesses in the vicinity of the determined current location is determined . In some implementations the device sends a request for location based information to a service e.g. location based service navigation service . In some implementations the request for location based information is a request for information associated with businesses in the vicinity of the determined current geographic location that provide photo or image printing processing services. The service receiving the request determines from a database of businesses for example the locations of photo processing businesses that are in proximity of the determined geographic location of the device and retrieves information related to these businesses such as their names addresses and phone numbers.

The businesses are optionally filtered . In some implementations the photo printing businesses determined in accordance with block can be filtered based on various criteria. In an exemplary implementation the businesses can be filtered by the navigation or location based service based on the current time and date or the time of the event determined in accordance with block . For example the businesses information can include hours of operation of the businesses and businesses whose hours of operation do not overlap with the current time and date can be disregarded e.g. a photo processing business that is closed on Sunday or after 5 PM is disregarded when the date is a Sunday or the time is 6 PM respectively . As another example the businesses can be filtered based on user preferences such as preferences regarding price. A business can be disregard if its per print price is over the user s per print price preference for example.

In some implementations the user preferences are set by the user at the device and stored at the device . The user preferences are sent to the navigation or location based service along with the request for businesses. In some other implementations the user preferences are stored at the navigation or location based service.

Ancillary information related to the picture taking event the current geographic location and or the time is determined . In some implementations the ancillary information can include other types of businesses beyond photo printing businesses. These other types of businesses can include businesses that the user of the device can patronize while waiting for photos to be processed by a photo printing business such as restaurants post offices pharmacies banks movie theatres and so forth. The user preferences can specify which types of ancillary businesses to determine in addition to the photo processing businesses. In some implementations the locations of ancillary businesses can be determined at the same time as the determination of the locations of the photo processing businesses in accordance with block .

As an example if the picture taking event occurred at around noon the navigation or location based service can determine locations of one or more photo processing businesses near the current location of the device. Additionally because noon is associated with lunch time the navigation or location based service can determine locations of one or more restaurants near the current location of the device.

Similar to the filtering of photo processing businesses in accordance with block the ancillary businesses can also be filtered by the navigation or location based service based on hours of operation price etc.

A map with the current location and the determined locations of the businesses remaining after the filtering is generated . The map e.g. map is generated by the navigation or location based service. The map is delivered to the device for display on the device . The generated map including the business locations and the information related to the businesses is transmitted to the device by the service and is displayed on the touch screen .

In some implementations the filtering described in reference to blocks and can be done at the device instead of the navigation or location based service. The navigation or location based service sends the map and all of the determined business locations and the device filters the businesses based on user preferences. The map is displayed at the device with only the business locations that passed the filter.

The disclosed and other embodiments and the functional operations described in this specification can be implemented in digital electronic circuitry or in computer software firmware or hardware including the structures disclosed in this specification and their structural equivalents or in combinations of one or more of them. The disclosed and other embodiments can be implemented as one or more computer program products i.e. one or more modules of computer program instructions encoded on a computer readable medium for execution by or to control the operation of data processing apparatus. The computer readable medium can be a machine readable storage device a machine readable storage substrate a memory device a composition of matter effecting a machine readable propagated signal or a combination of one or more them. The term data processing apparatus encompasses all apparatus devices and machines for processing data including by way of example a programmable processor a computer or multiple processors or computers. The apparatus can include in addition to hardware code that creates an execution environment for the computer program in question e.g. code that constitutes processor firmware a protocol stack a database management system an operating system or a combination of one or more of them. A propagated signal is an artificially generated signal e.g. a machine generated electrical optical or electromagnetic signal that is generated to encode information for transmission to suitable receiver apparatus.

A computer program also known as a program software software application script or code can be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages and it can be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a module component subroutine or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment. A computer program does not necessarily correspond to a file in a file system. A program can be stored in a portion of a file that holds other programs or data e.g. one or more scripts stored in a markup language document in a single file dedicated to the program in question or in multiple coordinated files e.g. files that store one or more modules sub programs or portions of code . A computer program can be deployed to be executed on one computer or on multiple computers that are located at one site or distributed across multiple sites and interconnected by a communication network.

The processes and logic flows described in this specification can be performed by one or more programmable processors executing one or more computer programs to perform functions by operating on input data and generating output. The processes and logic flows can also be performed by and apparatus can also be implemented as special purpose logic circuitry e.g. an FPGA field programmable gate array or an ASIC application specific integrated circuit .

Processors suitable for the execution of a computer program include by way of example both general and special purpose microprocessors and any one or more processors of any kind of digital computer. Generally a processor will receive instructions and data from a read only memory or a random access memory or both. The essential elements of a computer are a processor for performing instructions and one or more memory devices for storing instructions and data. Generally a computer will also include or be operatively coupled to receive data from or transfer data to or both one or more mass storage devices for storing data e.g. magnetic magneto optical disks or optical disks. However a computer need not have such devices. Computer readable media suitable for storing computer program instructions and data include all forms of non volatile memory media and memory devices including by way of example semiconductor memory devices e.g. EPROM EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks e.g. internal hard disks or removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks. The processor and the memory can be supplemented by or incorporated in special purpose logic circuitry.

To provide for interaction with a user the disclosed embodiments can be implemented on a computer having a display device e.g. a CRT cathode ray tube or LCD liquid crystal display monitor for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device e.g. a mouse or a trackball by which the user can provide input to the computer. Other kinds of devices can be used to provide for interaction with a user as well for example feedback provided to the user can be any form of sensory feedback e.g. visual feedback auditory feedback or tactile feedback and input from the user can be received in any form including acoustic speech or tactile input.

The disclosed embodiments can be implemented in a computing system that includes a back end component e.g. as a data server or that includes a middleware component e.g. an application server or that includes a front end component e.g. a client computer having a graphical user interface or a Web browser through which a user can interact with an implementation of what is disclosed here or any combination of one or more such back end middleware or front end components. The components of the system can be interconnected by any form or medium of digital data communication e.g. a communication network. Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN e.g. the Internet.

The computing system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other.

While this specification contains many specifics these should not be construed as limitations on the scope of what being claims or of what may be claimed but rather as descriptions of features specific to particular embodiments. Certain features that are described in this specification in the context of separate embodiments can also be implemented in combination in a single embodiment. Conversely various features that are described in the context of a single embodiment can also be implemented in multiple embodiments separately or in any suitable subcombination. Moreover although features may be described above as acting in certain combinations and even initially claimed as such one or more features from a claimed combination can in some cases be excised from the combination and the claimed combination may be directed to a subcombination or variation of a subcombination.

Similarly while operations are depicted in the drawings in a particular order this should not be understand as requiring that such operations be performed in the particular order shown or in sequential order or that all illustrated operations be performed to achieve desirable results. In certain circumstances multitasking and parallel processing may be advantageous. Moreover the separation of various system components in the embodiments described above should not be understood as requiring such separation in all embodiments and it should be understood that the described program components and systems can generally be integrated together in a single software product or packaged into multiple software products.

Thus particular embodiments have been described. Other embodiments are within the scope of the following claims.

