---

title: Enabling users searching for common subject matter on a computer network to communicate with one another
abstract: A method and computer system including launching a dialog window for two users to communicate with one another via respective client devices relating to a particular subject. A search query is received from an additional user including a keyword associated with the particular subject. In response to the request, a backlog of a recent discussion between the two users relating to the particular subject is retrieved and provided to the additional user, wherein the backlog includes a suggested link relating to the recent discussion.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08898183&OS=08898183&RS=08898183
owner: Red Hat, Inc.
number: 08898183
owner_city: Raleigh
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120716
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 160 897 filed Jul. 14 2005 the entirety of which is incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention relates to a computer implemented technique for enabling users who are searching for common subject matter on a computer network such as by using web browser based search engines to communicate with one another to form a search party to share information between users that are actively conducting a search relating to the common subject matter. There is no need for the users to already know each other or otherwise be associated with one another.

Despite the tremendous growth of raw data on the World Wide Web people are often the best source of information due to their ability to tailor data to specific situations. Chat rooms such as Internet Relay Chat IRC and Yahoo chat web forums and mailing lists for instance allow like minded people to communicate with one another and disseminate information. For example a group of people interested in cross country skiing might start a chat room or web forum on this topic. These approaches work well for people with a persistent interest in a topic. However people who have only an infrequent or ephemeral interest in a subject are not likely to seek out a discussion channel on the subject. Moreover no mechanism is available for enabling users who are searching for common subject matter on the Internet or other computer network such as by entering search terms in a web browser for a search engine to communicate with one another.

The present invention addresses the above and other issues by providing a technique for enabling users who are searching for common subject matter on a computer network to communicate with one another.

In one aspect of the invention a computer implemented method is provided for enabling users searching for common subject matter on a computer network to communicate with one another. The method includes receiving respective search queries made by the users via respective client devices in searching the computer network determining which of the respective search queries are for common subject matter and enabling particular ones of the users whose search queries are for the common subject matter to communicate with one another via their respective client devices.

In another aspect of the invention a computer based system is provided for enabling users searching for common subject matter on a computer network to communicate with one another. The system includes at least one server resource for receiving respective search queries made by the users via respective client devices in searching the computer network for determining which of the respective search queries are for common subject matter and for enabling particular one of the users whose respective search queries are for the common subject matter to communicate with one another via their respective client devices.

In a further aspect of the invention a computer implemented method is provided for enabling a particular user searching for subject matter on a computer network to communicate with other users who are also searching for the subject matter. The method includes transmitting to at least one server resource a search query made by the particular user via a respective client device in searching the computer network. The at least one server resource identifies the other users who have entered search queries for the subject matter via their respective client devices. The method further includes receiving data from the at least one server resource for enabling the particular user to communicate with the other users.

In a further aspect a computer implemented method is provided for enabling users searching for common subject matter on a computer network to communicate with one another. The method includes receiving at a server resource respective search queries made by the users via respective client devices in searching the computer network determining which of the respective search queries are for the common subject matter performing respective searches using the respective search queries of particular ones of the users whose respective search queries are for the common subject matter to obtain respective search results and transmitting the respective search results with scripts to the respective client devices of the particular users. The scripts are executable at the respective client devices of the particular users to enable the particular users to communicate with one another via their respective client devices.

In yet another aspect a computer implemented method is provided for enabling a particular user searching for subject matter on a computer network to communicate with other users who are also searching for the subject matter. The method includes transmitting to at least one server resource a search query made by the particular user via a respective client device in searching the computer network for the subject matter receiving search results with a script from the at least one server resource wherein the search results are responsive to the search query and executing the script to enable the particular user to communicate with the other users who are also searching for the subject matter via respective client devices.

When a user enters a search query in a search engine running at the respective PC the PC transmits the query to the search engine server . Generally search engines use automated software programs known as spiders or bots to survey a network such as the Web to build a database. Resources such as web documents are retrieved by the programs and analyzed typically by keyword and data collected from each resource is added to a search engine index. When the search engine server receives a user s query the query is checked against the search engine s index of all the web pages it has analyzed. Links to the resources that match the query most closely are then returned to the user and displayed on the search engine interface typically ranked in order of relevance. The user can then select a desired link to view the resource in detail. Resources that are frequently requested by users may be stored locally at the search engine server for quicker access. Otherwise the search engine server provides a link to the user that allows the resource to be accessed directly from one of any number of content servers worldwide. Different search engine servers may be operated by different entities. Example search engines that are currently popular include Google Yahoo AltaVista and Ask Jeeves which are registered trademarks of their respective owners.

A chat server allows any number of users to engage in an on line dialogue with one another such as an on line chat. A chat generally refers to a real time communication between users via computer. Once a chat has been initiated a user can enter text by typing on the keyboard and the entered text will appear on the other users screens.

In accordance with the invention a search registry server is provided which also receives the search queries from the users. The search registry server analyzes the search queries to identify users that are searching for common subject matter. A similarity in the search terms provided by different users can be used to establish that the users have a mutual interest in a topic. For example if a number of users enter the search term superbowl on respective search engine interfaces software running at the search registry server can conclude that the users are interested in the same topic. The search terms need not be identical in order for the search registry server to determine that they relate to common subject matter. Groupings of related words can be established using a variety of well known techniques. For example large corpuses of data can be scanned for proximal occurrences of words. Using these groupings associations between different search terms can be automatically inferred. For instance it may be inferred that the search terms superbowl and football are related to common subject matter such that users providing these terms should be joined in a common search party such as a chat room or other online dialogue. It can be concluded that search queries relate to common subject matter when they include the same or synonymous keywords in the same order or any order or when a commonality is indicated by techniques such as word associations probabilistic analysis or fuzzy matching for instance.

When it is determined that the search terms of different users relate to common subject matter the search registry server sends a message to the identified users informing them that other users are currently searching for information relating to the same subject matter. The search registry server can also communicates with the chat server to initiate an on line dialogue such as a chat which is one possible aspect of the search party for the subject matter. The chat server or the search registry server transmits a message to the identified users to inform them that the dialogue has been created and to give them the opportunity to participate in the search party. Additional users that subsequently search for the common subject matter can also be identified and given the opportunity to participate. The users can be informed of the existence of the dialogue how many users are currently actively participating and or how many users are eligible to participate. The number of users that have declined to participate in the dialogue can be inferred based on the difference between the number of users eligible and the number of users participating. The search registry server can also communicate with the chat server to determine how many users are currently participating in a dialogue.

Moreover multiple dialogues can be conducted at the same time for different subjects. Users that participate in a dialogue can view the search terms that were provided by the other users in the dialogue as well as view comments entered by the other users and enter their own comments to share with the other users. Additionally the users can share links to resources such as web pages with the other users in the dialogue. Users can also elect to have any search terms they provide until they leave the search party automatically shared with the other users accessing the search party without requiring manual user intervention. Once in a dialogue a user may exit by entering a specific command or the user may be automatically removed after a specified time out period in which the user is inactive for instance.

The search registry server may employ a defined time window in analyzing which search queries are for common subject matter. In one possible approach a relatively small time window such as one minute or a few minutes is used so that the dialogues will contain real time exchanges between users that are currently on line. However it is also possible to use a longer time window so that a user can be matched to a dialogue that was created some time ago.

Note that the chat server search registry server and the search engine server need not be independent but may be integrated in whole or in part. Generally any server resource arrangement regardless of the number configuration and location of specific server machines may be used to achieve the functionality described herein.

When a user performs a search using the search engine software such as the web browser the plug in software which may be provided as an extension to the web browser notices the search and extracts the search query e.g. the search terms or keywords. The plug in software initiates a transmission of the search query to the search registry server e.g. using any desired network transmission protocol. The operating system and hardware coordinate to transmit the message initiated by the plug in software in a manner apparent to those skilled in the art. The search registry server responds to the transmission by analyzing the search query as discussed previously to determine whether the search query is for the same subject matter which has been requested by other users and or for which a dialogue has already been launched. The search registry server transmits a message back to the plug in software via the hardware and the operating system indicating whether a dialogue for the searched for subject matter has been launched and other information such as how many users have joined the dialogue. The plug in software initiates the display of the information relating to the dialogue on the user interface e.g. screen. Additionally similar to the above case an implementation is possible wherein the client PC only uses a web browser that communicates with the search engine server to achieve the desired functionality in which case the search engine server returns a web page containing the search party information. In this case there is no need for a search registry server or a software plug in to the web browser.

The plug in software can also fetch chat text from the chat server for the dialogue relating to the searched for subject matter. Furthermore the plug in software can communicate with the chat server to provide the user recommendations and annotations discussed previously. The plug in software can also monitor the user s activities such as for the purpose of processing a user request to exit the dialogue or automatically removing the user from the dialogue after a specified time out period in which the user is inactive for instance or when it is detected that the user has closed the search engine application or the search party application. The plug in software can further enable the user to preview a dialogue before joining as well as transmit additional search queries made by the user to the chat server for sharing with other users in the dialogue. The plug in software can also allow a user to participate in multiple dialogues at the same time for different subjects e.g. via different instances of the search engine application e.g. the web browser in different windows. In one possible approach discussed further in connection with the functionality of the software plug in is provided by a script such as JAVASCRIPT executing within a web page where a non rich web page interface is used for display.

Additionally the plug in software can provide a rich client application. Such applications provide a richer user interface UI by providing a graphical interface with a number of controls for the user. A control refers to e.g. an object in a window or dialog box that allows a user to interface with the application and operating system. Examples of controls include push buttons scroll bars radio buttons pull down menus dialog boxes pop up windows pull down menus icons resizable window edges progress indicators selection boxes windows tear off menus menu bars toggle switches and forms. A rich client application can also provide access to local resources in the client PCs such as disk storage and application programming interfaces APIs . Because they run locally on the client computers rich client applications use available resources more efficiently and can speed response times. For example as a user navigates the application the application can automatically merge local data with updated information that is transparently picked up across the Internet or other network.

Furthermore the plug in software may use the example pseudo code of Table 1 to achieve some of its functions. The pseudo code maps to real protocol requests such as TCP IP requests. TABLE US 00001

If a search party has been launched the other users searching for the same subject matter have already been identified and new users can be added to the existing dialogue. If a dialogue has not yet been launched the search registry server can identify groups of users searching for the same subject matter using the techniques discussed previously. A search party can be created with two or more users. However a minimum group size may be set to reduce the number of search party that are launched so that a new search party is not created until the minimum number of users is identified. A maximum search party size can also be enforced. The users who are searching for common subject matter can be identified e.g. by maintaining information such as an IP or other network address of the identified users.

At block the search registry server forms a search party if not already formed and informs each user of the number of other users who are searching for the same subject matter. At block after being made aware of the existence of a search party a user can choose to preview the search party in which case a window is opened on the user interface displaying a recent discussion that is obtained by a backlog of comments made in the past few minutes block . At this point the user is not actively participating in the dialogue provided by the search party. However at block the user can choose to actively join the search party in which case a new window e.g. a search party window opens displaying a current discussion and search queries block . The preview window and the search party window may open on top of the existing search engine window e.g. in a cascaded manner or on a separate screen of a multi screen setup for instance. The user can view the dialogue or return to browse the search results obtained from the user s initial or subsequent searches block . The user can recommend a link to a search result to share with the other users in the search party block in addition to sharing a typed in annotation to the link block . In response the search party window displays the recommended link and the annotation for all users in the search party to view block .

The following figures illustrate an example series of user interfaces that may be provided by the invention.

Generally the search party can be implemented using different types of communication modes. In the example given on line chatting is provided along with sharing of links and search queries. However it is also possible to provide only a subset of these features or to provide other features. For example only sharing of links may be provided or only chatting. Furthermore the search registry server may analyze the search queries and communications made by the users to better formulate search engine strategies or for other purposes. The search registry server may also track the number of users that elect to participate in a search party the average time spent in a search party and so on for statistical purposes. In another possible approach users may consent to sharing certain personal information with the search registry server such as their geographic location age gender or other demographic information. In this case the search registry server can select which users are identified for participation in a search party based on the personal information. For instance separate search parties may be formed for women and men searching for information on the subject of motorcycling . In another option the identified users can send email messages to one another either using their actual email addresses or anonymously. In a further possible option the identified users can be joined in a video or audio conference.

After viewing the search party window the user may decide to return to the previous search results to explore them in further detail. The user may return to the search engine window in the interface by clicking on the search engine window for instance or by minimizing the search party window as shown in .

The embodiment described in uses a web page only search engine implementation to achieve the search party functionality. In this case the search registry server is not needed. At block the user launches a search engine via a web browser and the search engine returns a web search page such as shown in that is displayed in the web browser. At block the user enters a search query by typing in one or more search keywords and presses enter or selects a search button. At block the web browser transmits the search query to the search engine using a protocol such as HTTP. At block the search engine server identifies users who are searching for common subject matter using techniques discussed previously and queries the chat server to determine if a search party has already been set up for the subject matter. If a search party has already been set up the search engine server obtains information relating to the search such as the number of eligible and actual participants and past chat discussion text. The search engine server can alternatively form a search party if needed. The search engine server also performs a search using the search query to obtain search results.

At block the search engine server returns a web page containing the results of the search to the web browser. Other information that is returned to the web browser can include the information regarding the search party such as the availability of the search party the number of people currently participating past chat discussion text and so forth in addition to a script program implementation of software for implementing the search party functionality. A script can be provided that works inside web pages and displays information using the web browser. When the script executes the search party chat box is added to the search web page which contains the search results as seen in . Advantageously with this approach there is no need for the user to install additional software to achieve the search party functionality.

At block the web browser can execute the script to communicate with the search engine such as by using XML RPC requests and responses. RPC or remote procedure call is a type of protocol that allows a program on one computer to execute a program on a server computer. Using RPC a system developer is not required to develop specific procedures for the server. The client program sends a message to the server with appropriate arguments and the server returns a message containing the results of the program executed. CORBA and DCOM provide the same types of capabilities as traditional RPCs and may also be used. XML RPC is newer than DCOM and CORBA though it is more simplistic being designed for web use rather than complicated enterprise RPC needs. In particular XML RPC is a technique for encoding procedure call strings as simple XML which are then interpreted by the server software. XML RPC requires the server computer to have code that is responsive to the XML RPC protocol requests it does not allow the client to execute arbitrary code on the server. The main advantage of XML RPC is that it is easy to use from a lightweight scripting language such as JAVASCRIPT.

At block the search engine server passes requests or calls from the web browser to the chat server and passes the corresponding responses back to the script such as ECMAscript code inside the web page browser. This communication may use code that is analogous to the pseudocode API described above in connection with Table 1.

The invention has been described herein with reference to particular exemplary embodiments. Certain alterations and modifications may be apparent to those skilled in the art without departing from the scope of the invention. The exemplary embodiments are meant to be illustrative not limiting of the scope of the invention.

