---

title: Terminal, method and computer program product for validating a software application
abstract: A terminal for validating a software application includes a processor capable of operating an operating system (OS) platform (e.g., Symbian™ OS platform), and capable of operating at least one software application above the OS platform. The software application(s) are associated with a permission record that includes permissions identifying services the software application is authorized to receive from the OS platform. The OS platform is capable of receiving a request, from a software application, for a service of the OS platform. The OS platform can determine if the software application is authorized to receive the requested service based upon the associated permission record. And if the software application is authorized, the OS platform is capable of providing the requested service to the software application.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08584118&OS=08584118&RS=08584118
owner: Nokia Corporation
number: 08584118
owner_city: Espoo
owner_country: FI
publication_date: 20120409
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 10 969 145 filed on Oct. 20 2004 and issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 156 488 and is incorporated in its entirety herein by reference.

The present invention generally relates to terminals and methods of validating a software application and more particularly relates to terminals methods and computer program products for validating software applications in a mobile terminal operating system environment.

As is well known various user equipment including computers fixed or portable mobile telephones personal data assistants PDA s organizers and the like can be used to communicate with other user equipment in a communication system or to access the Internet to obtain services. Mobile user equipment is often referred to as a mobile terminal and can be defined as a means which is capable of communication via a wireless interface with another device such as a base station of a mobile telecommunication network or any other station including other mobile terminals. Such terminals can be adapted for voice text message or data communication via the wireless interface.

As digital convergence reshapes the way businesses and users use and share information a merging of digital communication technology digital media and computing is taking place. And user equipment is being developed to enable users to access the facilities provided by such convergence. In this regard so called high end mobile phones or smart phones or communicators are examples of mobile terminals that have been developed to fulfill this requirement. These mobile phones not only perform functions of a conventional mobile telephone but may also perform functions previously limited to personal computers personal digital assistants or the like. For example a number of these mobile phones include functionality to install or load third party software into the mobile phones.

As is also well known to those skilled in the art various pieces of software may be malicious in the guise of viruses Trojan horses or some other element introduced by a hacker in order to abuse the mobile phone or otherwise gain access to functionality of the mobile phone. It is well known that personal computers PCs are susceptible to such problems and solutions have been proposed in the field of personal computing to overcome them including implementing detailed security measures to prevent detect and or respond to the security risks posed by such malicious software. However the open operating systems of most of the mobile devices such as the current Symbian operating system OS do not provide a fine grained security model for overcoming the security risk. Furthermore various solutions that have been proposed are application level solutions which are software based and as such can be bypassed by a sophisticated programmer.

In light of the foregoing background embodiments of the present invention provide an improved terminal method and computer program product for validating a software application. In accordance with embodiments of the present invention a security framework is provided whereby the authenticity integrity and or authority of applications received by the terminal may be checked before installing loading and or providing services to those applications. More particularly for example applications installed or otherwise loaded onto a terminal are associated with permission records that identify services the applications are permitted to receive from an OS platform operating below the applications including for example operations the applications are permitted to perform within the OS platform. Then when an application requests a service provided by the OS platform authority of the application to receive the service can be verified based upon the permission record associated with the respective application before the application receives the requested service. Thus unauthorized applications such as malicious applications may be prevented from accessing services for which the respective applications do not have express authority to access as identified in the permission records.

According to one aspect of the present invention a terminal is provided for validating a software application. The terminal includes a processor capable of operating an operating system OS platform e.g. Symbian OS platform and capable of operating at least one software application above the OS platform. The software application s are associated with a permission record that includes permissions identifying services the software application is authorized to receive from the OS platform. The OS platform is capable of receiving a request from a software application for a service of the OS platform. The OS platform or a verification module of the OS platform can verify the authority of the software application by determining if the software application is authorized to receive the requested service based upon the associated permission record. And if the software application is authorized the OS platform is capable of providing the requested service to the software application.

The terminal can be capable of receiving a plurality of requests from the software application for at least one service of the OS platform. For each requested service then the OS platform can be capable of determining if the software application is authorized to receive the requested service based upon the associated permission record. The OS platform can then provide to the software application those services for which the software application is authorized.

In addition to verifying the authority of the software application the OS platform can be further capable of verifying an authenticity of the software application. More particularly the OS platform or an installer application of the OS platform can be capable of verifying the authenticity of the software application based upon a source of the software application where the software application has previously been received from the source. Irrespective of how the OS platform verifies the authenticity of the software application however the OS platform can thereafter install the software application for operation on the terminal if the authenticity of the software application is verified. In such instances the OS platform can be capable of verifying the authenticity and installing the software application before receiving a request from the software application for a service of the OS platform. After verifying the authenticity of the application however the OS platform can be further capable of creating the permission record for the software application if the authenticity of the software application is verified and thereafter storing the permission record in a policy database of the OS platform.

Further the OS platform can be further capable of initiating loading of the software application and verifying an integrity of the software application before loading the software application. In this regard the permission record associated with the software application can further include a signature associated with the software application. In such instances the OS platform can be capable of verifying the integrity of the software application by generating a verification signature based upon the software application comparing the verification signature with the signature in the permission record associated with the software application and thereafter verifying the integrity of the software application based upon the comparison. Irrespective of how the integrity of the software application is verified however the OS platform or a loader application of the OS platform can load the software application for operation on the terminal if the integrity of the software application is verified. Then after loading the software application the OS platform can receive a request from the software application for a service of the OS platform.

According to other aspects of the present invention a method and computer program product are provided for validating a software application. Embodiments of the present invention therefore provide an improved terminal method and computer program product for validating a software application. As indicated above and explained below embodiments of the present invention provide a security framework whereby the authority of a software application to receive a service is verified before providing that service to the software application. Also in accordance with embodiments of the present invention the authenticity of the software application may be verified before installing the software application for operation on the terminal. In addition the integrity of the software application may be verified before loading the software application for operation on the terminal in accordance with embodiments of the present invention. As such the terminal method and computer program product of embodiments of the present invention solve the problems identified by prior techniques and provide additional advantages.

The present invention now will be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which preferred embodiments of the invention are shown. This invention may however be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete and will fully convey the scope of the invention to those skilled in the art. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout.

Referring to an illustration of one type of system and terminal that would benefit from the present invention is provided. The system method and computer program product of embodiments of the present invention will be primarily described in conjunction with mobile communications applications. It should be understood however that the system method and computer program product of embodiments of the present invention can be utilized in conjunction with a variety of other applications both in the mobile communications industries and outside of the mobile communications industries. For example the system method and computer program product of embodiments of the present invention can be utilized in conjunction with wireline and or wireless network e.g. Internet applications.

Also it should be understood that while the terminal may be illustrated and hereinafter described as comprising a mobile telephone mobile telephones are merely illustrative of one type of terminal that would benefit from the present invention and therefore should not be taken to limit the scope of the present invention. While several embodiments of the terminal are illustrated and will be hereinafter described for purposes of example other types of terminals such as portable digital assistants PDAs pagers laptop computers and other types of electronic systems can readily employ the present invention.

As shown the system can include a number of the same or different terminals one shown . Each terminal may have an antenna for transmitting signals to and for receiving signals from a base site or base station BS . The base station is a part of one or more cellular or mobile networks that each include elements required to operate the network such as a mobile switching center MSC . As well known to those skilled in the art the mobile network may also be referred to as a Base Station MSC Interworking function BMI . In operation the MSC is capable of routing calls data or the like to and from terminals when those terminals are making and receiving calls data or the like. The MSC can also provide a connection to landline trunks when terminals are involved in a call. In addition the MSC can be capable of controlling the forwarding of messages to and from terminals and can also control the forwarding of messages for such terminals to and from a messaging center MC such as Short Messaging Service SMS messages to and from a SMS center SMSC and or Multimedia Messaging Service MMS messages to and from a MMS center MMSC .

The MSC can be coupled to a data network such as a local area network LAN a metropolitan area network MAN and or a wide area network WAN . The MSC can be directly coupled to the data network. In one typical embodiment however the MSC is coupled to a gateway GTW and the GTW is coupled to a WAN such as the Internet . In turn devices such as processing elements e.g. personal computers server computers or the like can be coupled to the terminals via the Internet and or directly via other means for sharing and or obtaining data as explained below . For example as explained below the processing elements can include one or more processing elements associated with one or more origin servers one of which being illustrated in . The processing elements can comprise any of a number of processing devices systems or the like capable of operating in accordance with embodiments of the present invention. In this regard the processing elements can comprise for example server computer systems desktop computer systems laptop computer systems or the like.

Although not every element of every possible network is shown and described herein it should be appreciated that the terminals may be coupled to one or more of any of a number of different networks. In this regard mobile network s can be capable of supporting communication in accordance with any one or more of a number of first generation 1G second generation 2G 2.5G and or third generation 3G mobile communication protocols or the like. Additionally or alternatively mobile network s can be capable of supporting communication in accordance with any one or more of a number of different digital broadcast networks such as Digital Video Broadcasting DVB networks including DVB T DVB Terrestrial and or DVB H DVB Handheld Integrated Services Digital Broadcasting ISDB networks including ISDB T ISDB Terrestrial or the like.

More particularly for example one or more terminals may be coupled to one or more networks capable of supporting communication in accordance with 2G wireless communication protocols IS 136 TDMA GSM and IS 95 CDMA . Also for example one or more of the network s can be capable of supporting communication in accordance with 2.5G wireless communication protocols GPRS Enhanced Data GSM Environment EDGE or the like. In addition for example one or more of the network s can be capable of supporting communication in accordance with 3G wireless communication protocols such as Universal Mobile Telephone System UMTS network employing Wideband Code Division Multiple Access WCDMA radio access technology. Some narrow band AMPS NAMPS as well as TACS network s may also benefit from embodiments of the present invention as should dual or higher mode terminals e.g. digital analog or TDMA CDMA analog phones .

As shown in addition to an antenna the mobile terminal can include a transmitter receiver and controller or other processor that provides signals to and receives signals from the transmitter and receiver respectively. These signals include signaling information in accordance with the air interface standard of the applicable cellular system and also user speech and or user generated data. In this regard the terminal can be capable of operating with one or more air interface standards communication protocols modulation types and access types. More particularly the terminal can be capable of operating in accordance with any of a number of 1G 2G 2.5G and or 3 G communication protocols or the like such as any one or more of those indicated above.

It is understood that the controller includes the circuitry required for implementing the audio and logic functions of the terminal . For example the controller may be comprised of a digital signal processor device a microprocessor device and various analog to digital converters digital to analog converters and other support circuits. The control and signal processing functions of the terminal are allocated between these devices according to their respective capabilities. The controller can additionally include an internal voice coder VC and may include an internal data modem DM . Further the controller may include the functionality to operate one or more client software programs such as those indicated above which may be stored in memory described below .

The terminal also comprises a user interface including a conventional earphone or speaker a ringer a microphone a display and a user input interface all of which are coupled to the controller . Although not shown the terminal can include a battery for powering the various circuits that are required to operate the terminal as well as optionally providing mechanical vibration as a detectable output. The user input interface which allows the terminal to receive data can comprise any of a number of devices allowing the terminal to receive data such as a keypad a touch display not shown or other input device. In embodiments including a keypad the keypad includes the conventional numeric 0 9 and related keys and other keys used for operating the terminal.

The terminal can also include one or more means for sharing and or obtaining data. For example the terminal can include a short range radio frequency RF transceiver or interrogator so that data can be shared with and or obtained from electronic devices in accordance with RF techniques. The terminal can additionally or alternatively include other short range transceivers such as for example an infrared IR transceiver and or a Bluetooth BT transceiver operating using Bluetooth brand wireless technology developed by the Bluetooth Special Interest Group. The terminal can therefore additionally or alternatively be capable of transmitting data to and or receiving data from electronic devices in accordance with such techniques. Although not shown the terminal can additionally or alternatively be capable of transmitting and or receiving data from electronic devices according to a number of different wireless networking techniques including WLAN techniques such as IEEE 802.11 techniques or the like.

The terminal can further include memory such as a subscriber identity module SIM a removable user identity module R UIM or the like which typically stores information elements related to a mobile subscriber. In addition to the SIM the terminal can include other removable and or fixed memory. In this regard the terminal can include volatile memory such as volatile Random Access Memory RAM including a cache area for the temporary storage of data. The terminal can also include other non volatile memory which can be embedded and or may be removable. The non volatile memory can additionally or alternatively comprise an EEPROM flash memory or the like. The memories can store any of a number of software applications instructions pieces of information and data used by the terminal to implement the functions of the terminal.

As explained above the terminal may operate or otherwise run a number of different software applications including for example a WAP Wireless Application Protocol browser MMS client SMS client email client short range connectivity OBEX Object Exchange engine PC connectivity Bluetooth and IR stacks PIM personal information management and telephony applications. Within the terminal such applications typically run on top of an OS platform such as that provided by the open architecture Symbian Generic Technology GT . As explained below the operating system comprises the Symbian OS . It should be understood however that the operating system can comprise any of a number of other operating systems capable of operating similar to the Symbian OS in accordance with embodiments of the present invention. For example in lieu of the Symbian OS applications may operate on top of operating systems such as Linux Windows CE or Palm OS .

As will be appreciated the Symbian GT is a common core of Symbian application programming interfaces APIs and operating system technology. It contains all of the interfaces to user interface UI applications dynamic link libraries DLLs executables EXEs and device drivers for controlling various hardware devices of the terminal including for example the ringer display keypad and as applicable the RF transceiver IR transceiver and or Bluetooth transceiver . In addition the Symbian GT communicates with the terminal s core cellular software through a well defined and documented messaging architecture.

Reference is now made to which illustrates an architecture diagram of the Symbian OS GT operating on top of a number of applications e.g. application 1 application 2 application 3 etc. onboard a Symbian based terminal . The Symbian OS GT is shown on top of terminal hardware see and lower level software . As is well known the Symbian OS GT comprises a number of subsystems that conceptually divide the APIs and operating system technology provided by the Symbian GT into those of related functionality. In this regard as shown the Symbian GT includes a base subsystem an application framework subsystem communication infrastructure subsystem browsing subsystem messaging framework subsystem Java subsystem connectivity subsystem multimedia framework subsystem and application engines .

Briefly the base subsystem of the Symbian GT architecture provides the programming framework for the other components of the Symbian GT architecture. In this regard the base subsystem includes the OS system kernel which employs a micro kernel architecture in which a minimal functional core is separate from one or more extended functionalities and or customer specific components. In addition to the micro kernel the base subsystem includes a user library as well as the file server which provides shared access to filing systems.

The application framework subsystem includes middleware APIs for services and components such as data management text handling clipboard resource file support internationalization and core graphical UI GUI components. To implement such services then the application framework subsystem includes sub subsystems such as an application architecture window server view server and GUI component framework.

The communication infrastructure subsystem provides frameworks and services for communications and networking within the Symbian GT architecture. The communication infrastructure subsystem may include or otherwise be associated with servers such as a communications server socket server and telephony server. The communications socket and telephony servers in turn provide support for a number of communication technologies and protocols including for example Transmission Control Protocol Internet Protocol TCP IP GSM CDMA Wireless Application Protocol WAP as well as serial communications and short range communications such as infrared and Bluetooth.

The browsing subsystem of the Symbian GT architecture includes browsers for communicating in accordance with the Wireless Markup Language WML for WAP services and Hypertext Markup Language HTML for World Wide Web WWW services. The messaging framework subsystem is based upon a messaging server and provides support for sending and receiving a number of different types of messages including for example text messages SMS messages Enhanced Messaging Service EMS messages MMS and email messages.

The Java subsystem of the Symbian GT architecture provides support for Java services within the Java 2 Micro Edition J2ME framework. The connectivity subsystem provides for personal area networking PAN connectivity via a number of different communication means including for example Bluetooth serial Universal Serial Bus USB infrared and Ethernet means. The multimedia framework subsystem includes a media server and provides a number of multimedia capabilities including for example audio and video recording and playback audio streaming functionality and imaging functionality. And the application engines provide the core functionality for standard Symbian applications. In this regard the application engines can include agenda schedule to do contacts alarm and world servers as well as a help engine.

As will be appreciated then operating systems such as the Symbian OS include an extensive collection of libraries or DLLs for implementing a number of different standards including networking communication messaging browsing telephony and multimedia standards. Access to the services and resources of the operating system however may be implemented by service providers through a client server framework. In such a framework a client program e.g. application requests and receives services provided by a server e.g. file server window server view server communications server socket server and telephony server messaging server media server agenda schedule server to do server contacts server alarm server world server etc. . The requests are received by means of an API defined by the server for receiving such requests. The client and server communicate in accordance with a message passing protocol where the communication is mediated by the OS system kernel of the base subsystem .

To request provide services a client and server communicate by means of a channel of communication often referred to as a session. In this regard a client sends a message to a server over a session to request a service provided by the server the message including a 32 bit request type code and up to four 32 bit parameters for example. The server can then service the request and return a result such as a 32 bit result to the client. In various instances however the server may be required to send and or receive additional data to service the request. In such instances the server may perform one or more read and or write functions in accordance with inter thread data transfer services before returning the result to complete service of the request.

As explained in the background section various software applications may be malicious in the guise of viruses Trojan horses or some other element introduced by a hacker in order to abuse the terminal or otherwise gain access to functionality of the terminal. To more clearly illustrate this consider two applications namely application 1 app 1 and application 2 app2 as illustrated in . As shown the two applications operate on top of an OS platform e.g. Symbian OS and receive services provided by one or more of servers namely server A server B and or server C . And as explained above with respect to the Symbian OS communication between the applications and the servers passes through respective APIs of the OS platform and is mediated by the kernel of the OS.

In the example shown in also consider that application 1 is operating in a proper manner attempting to read and or write files to memory e.g. non volatile memory of the terminal such as into a contact database or phonebook as represented by session . Application 2 on the other hand is a malicious application which the terminal user previously downloaded to the terminal. When launched for operation on the terminal malicious application 2 may perform one or more improper functions. For example malicious application 2 may read write and or delete files to and or from memory of the terminal and or transfer one or more files to a remote device via a messaging technique e.g. text messaging SMS EMS MMS email etc. as represented by session . In this scenario application 2 may compromise user trust and privacy by performing undesirable functions which can result in personal and or financial loss for the terminal user.

To overcome the drawbacks associated with the scenario of i.e. malicious programs obtaining services of the OS platform of the terminal embodiments of the present invention provide a security framework whereby each application installed or otherwise loaded onto the terminal is associated with a permission record that identifies one or more services the application is permitted to receive from the OS platform. Then when an application requests a service provided by the OS platform the permission record can be checked to determine if the application is authorized to receive the requested service. If the application is authorized the OS platform can proceed to provide the requested service to the application. Otherwise the application may be prevented from receiving the requested service.

Reference is now made to and and which illustrate embodiments of the present invention. More particularly is a functional block diagram of applications operating on top of an OS platform in accordance with one embodiment of the present invention. and are flowcharts including various steps in validating a software application also in accordance with one embodiment of the present invention.

As shown in and explained below in contrast to the block diagram of a conventional terminal as shown in the terminal of embodiments of the present invention further includes an installer application which as part of the OS platform is adapted to validate applications received by the terminal and if validated install such applications onto the terminal and create permission records for such applications. In this regard the terminal of embodiments of the present invention also includes a policy database DB for storing the permission records created by the terminal. In addition the terminal includes a management application for confirming adding deleting overriding or otherwise modifying one or more permissions in the permission records of one or more applications. Further the terminal includes a validation module integrated or otherwise associated with the API s for determining if applications requesting services provided by the OS platform are authorized to receive those services the validation module determining the authority of the applications based upon respective permission records in the policy database.

As shown in block of a method of validating a software application includes the terminal receiving a software application such as application 3 as shown in . The terminal can receive the software application in any of a number of different manners. For example the terminal can download the software application from an origin server across the Internet and one or more cellular or mobile networks see . Irrespective of how the terminal receives the software application the software application may be stored in memory of the terminal e.g. SIM volatile memory non volatile memory etc. . Then after receiving and storing the software application installation of the software application for operation on the terminal is initiated such as by a terminal user directing the installer application to install the software application as shown in block .

After installation of the software application is initiated but before the software application is installed the installer application attempts to verify the authenticity of the software application as shown in blocks and . For example the installer application can verify the authenticity of the source e.g. an origin server of the software application to thereby verify the authenticity of the software application. In this regard the authenticity of the software application can be verified in any of a number of different manners such as by checking a cryptographic checksum e.g. GNU Privacy Guard GPG signature . If the installer application fails to verify the authenticity of the software application the installer application may prevent installation of the software application.

If the installer application verifies the authenticity of the software application the installer application installs the software application for operation on the terminal as shown in block . Also after verifying the authenticity of the software application the installer application creates a permission record for the software application as shown in block . Then as illustrated in block the permission record can then be stored as an entry in a policy database that resides inside the kernel space of the OS platform as represented by the session shown as and . In this regard the policy database can have access restricted to only specified applications which may be authorized to read and or write to the policy database.

The installer application can create the permission record or more particularly determine the permissions included in the permission record in any of a number of different manners. For example the installer application may be configured to include one or more default permissions in each permission record or in each permission record of one or more particular types of software applications . Additionally or alternatively for example the installer application may receive one or more permissions from the software application itself such as in a permissions.ini file. In such instances the installer application may request such as from a terminal user confirmation of one or more of the received permissions before inserting those permissions into the permission record. For example presume that the software application includes one or more permissions authorizing the software application to perform one or more operations using I O interfaces e.g. transmitter receiver RF transceiver IR transceiver Bluetooth transceiver etc. of the terminal . In such an instance the installer application may notify the terminal user of one or more of the permissions authorizing use of the terminal I O interfaces and request that the terminal user confirm or deny those permissions such as via a management application as explained below.

Further for example the terminal user may operate a management application before as or after the installer application installs the software application to confirm add delete override or otherwise modify one or more permissions in the permission records of one or more software applications as represented by the session shown as and . In this regard in addition to confirming permissions provided by a software application being installed the terminal user may operate the management application to set reset or otherwise modify one or more default permissions included in one or more permission records. Also for example the terminal user may operate the management application to override or otherwise modify permissions provided by the software application or set as default permissions. Further for example the terminal user may operate the management application to add and or delete permissions from the default permissions or from one or more permission records such as permissions related to socket and or I O access control.

As indicated above the permission record directly or indirectly identifies one or more services the application is permitted to receive from the OS platform including operations the software application is authorized to perform with respect to the OS platform. In this regard the permission record may identify one or more permissions associated with the respective software application with respect to the OS platform of the terminal . For example a permission record for a software application e.g. application 3 may identify one or more files the respective software application is authorized to read input output I O operations the software application may perform and or what inter process communication IPC the software application may utilize to communicate with one or more processes and one or more types of temporary files the software application is authorized to create as well as when and to where the software application is authorized to create the temporary files. More particularly for example a permission record for application 3 may read as follows 

In the preceding permission file application 3 has file access to the contact database contact.db in memory e.g. non volatile memory of the terminal as well as access to create temporary text files temp.txt . More particularly application 3 has read only R access to the contact database without authorization to create or delete entries in the contact database but has read write R W access to create temporary text files with authorization to create and delete temporary text files. Further in addition to file access application 3 has authorization to access the consol of the terminal e.g. display keypad etc. .

In addition to one or more permissions the permission record can further include one or more additional pieces of information related to the respective software application . For example the permission record can identify the source e.g. an origin server of the software application as well as when the terminal received the software application from the source and or where in memory e.g. non volatile memory the software application is stored. Also for example the permission record can store for the software application a signature that can be generated or otherwise received by the installer application . In this regard the signature can comprise any of a number of different values strings or the like such as a hash of the file name of the software application by which the integrity of the software application may be verified as explained below.

At one or more instances after installing the software application and creating storing a permission record for the software application the software application may be loaded or otherwise executed for operation on the terminal . Alternatively in various instances an application may be configured to be loaded or otherwise executed for operation on the terminal without first being separately installed. Even in such instances however the application may be processed by the installer application such as to create and store a permission record for the application before first loading or otherwise executing the application for operation on the terminal. Generally then after the application is configured to be loaded or otherwise executed for operation on the terminal at one or more instances a program loader included within or otherwise associated with the OS platform initiates or is directed to load the software application for operation as shown in block of . Then the program loader attempts to verify the integrity of the software application as shown in blocks and .

The program loader can verify the integrity of the software application in any of a number of different manners to check that the software application is intact and has not been otherwise modified within memory e.g. non volatile memory of the terminal. For example the program loader can verify the integrity of the software application by generating a verification signature e.g. hash of the file name for the software application. The verification signature can then be compared with the signature in the permission record of the software application stored in the policy database . If the verification signature substantially if not entirely matches the signature in the permission record the program loader verifies the integrity of the software application. Otherwise the program loader has failed to verify the integrity of the software application and may prevent the software application from being loaded for operation.

If the program loader verifies the integrity of the software application the program loader loads the software application for operation on the terminal as shown in block . Thereafter at one or more instances during operation of the software application the software application may request one or more services provided by the OS platform the services oftentimes being provided by a server and mediated by the kernel of the OS. In such instances as illustrated in block of the application sends a service request to a respective server by means of an API defined by the server for receiving such requests as represented by sessions and with respect to application and application respectively.

Upon receipt of the request by the API but before passing the request to the respective server the API directs the validation module to attempt to verify the authority of the requesting application to receive the requested service as illustrated in blocks and . In this regard the validation module loads the permission record for the requesting application from the policy database into system memory e.g. volatile memory of the terminal . From the permission record then the validation module determines if the requesting application is authorized to receive the requested service based upon the permissions included in the permission record. For example presume that an application requests to read from the contact database. In such an instance the validation module may determine if the requesting application is authorized to read from the contact database by searching the respective permission record for a permission authorizing the application to read from the contact database e.g. File access Contact.db R .

If the validation module fails to verify the authority of the application to receive the requested service the validation module prevents the application from receiving the requested service such as by preventing the service request from reaching the respective server. Additionally if so desired a log may be generated and stored in memory e.g. non volatile memory of the terminal such as by the kernel of the OS. In this regard the log may identify a number of different pieces of information such as for example the requesting application the requested service and or the time date the requesting application requested the service.

If the validation module verifies the authority of the application to receive the requested service on the other hand the validation module passes or directs the respective API to pass the service request to the respective server . Thereafter as illustrated in block if the server is permitted to receive and receives the service request the server provides the requested service to the application as also represented by sessions and with respect to application 1 54and application 2 respectively.

At one or more instances during operation of the application the same application may request the same service or different service from the same server or different servers as shown in block . For each service then the API receives the request directs the validation module to attempt to verify the application to receive the requested service and if verified passes the request to the respective server such that the respective server provides the requested service. To improve efficiency in verifying the authority of and providing subsequent services to an application the permission record of the requesting application may be maintained in system memory e.g. volatile memory of the terminal such as until the respective application is closed as represented by session . Thus the validation module may verify the authority of the application based upon the permission record maintained in system memory for subsequent requests as opposed to loading the permission record from the policy database .

As explained above an application requests a service from a server adapted to provide the requested service. In one or more instances however a base server e.g. server A receiving the service request from an application may in turn request a service from one or more subsequent servers e.g. server B on behalf of the requesting application. The service requested by the base server on behalf of the application can then be provided to the application from the subsequent servers. In such instances authority of the application to receive the requested service can be verified with respect to the service requested from the base server see blocks and . In response to receipt of the service request the base server can request a service from a subsequent server on behalf of the requesting application the request from the base server being sent over a session via a respective API defined by the subsequent server as represented by session between server A i.e. base server and server B i.e. subsequent server in .

When a service request is sent from a server or another trusted component such as another component of the OS platform via an API the API may be configured to pass the request to a respective server without directing the validation module to attempt to verify the server to receive the requested service even considering that the service will be provided to the requesting application . Alternatively each component of the OS platform may also be associated with a permission record. In such instances the authority of the server may be verified such as in the same manner as applications although components of the OS platform may more typically be considered trusted components with unrestricted access to services and resources of the OS platform. Irrespective of exactly how the request is passed from the base server to the subsequent server the subsequent server can thereafter provide the requested service to the requesting application as opposed to the requesting base server although the service may be provided to the requesting application back through the base server .

To further illustrate benefits of embodiments of the present invention again consider two applications namely application 1 app1 and application 2 app2 as illustrated in . As shown as in the two applications of operate on top of an OS platform e.g. Symbian OS and receive services provided by one or more of servers namely server A server B and or server C . And as explained above with respect to the Symbian OS communication between the applications and the servers passes through respective APIs of the OS platform and is mediated by the kernel of the OS.

In the example shown in also consider that application 1 is operating in a proper manner attempting to read and or write files to memory e.g. non volatile memory of the terminal such as into a contact database or phonebook as represented by session . Application 2 on the other hand is a malicious application that also attempts to read and or write files to memory as represented by session which the terminal user previously downloaded to the terminal. During installation the installer application is likely to verify the authenticity of application 1. But being a malicious application installer application may fail to verify the authenticity of application 2 and thus prevent installation of application 2. Consider however that the installer application also successfully verifies the authenticity of application 2. In this instance the installer application installs both applications and creates and stores a permission record for both applications.

As the installer application creates the permission record for malicious application 2 the permission record of application 2 may only include the default permissions which may be selected to only include services incapable of abusing the terminal in any manner meaningful to the terminal user. Also during creation of the permission record application 2 may request authorization to receive one or more services that facilitate malicious operation of application 2. As with other permissions received or otherwise provided by applications the installer application can request that the terminal user confirm the received permissions before inserting those permissions into the permission record. The terminal user can then recognize application 2 as a malicious application or recognize application 2 does not need the services for which authorization is requested and deny authorization for those services.

After the installer application installs application 1 and application 2 either application may be operated on the terminal . During operation application 1 is likely to request services that application 1 is authorized to receive as reflected in the permission record for application 1 such as requesting receiving a service over session . Malicious application 2 on the other hand may be rendered benign by application of the permission record of application 2 before the OS platform provides any services to application 2. In this regard if application 2 requests a service not included in the permissions of the respective permission record such as requesting write access to system files over session the validation module prevents application 2 from receiving the requested service. Application 2 may be authorized to receive other services per the permission record but typically only those services incapable of abusing the terminal in any manner meaningful to the terminal user as indicated above.

According to one aspect of the present invention all or a portion of the system of the present invention such all or portions of the terminal generally operate under control of one or more computer program products e.g. software applications OS platform including the server s API s kernel installer application policy database management application and validation module etc. . The computer program product for performing the methods of embodiments of the present invention includes a computer readable storage medium such as the non volatile storage medium and computer readable program code portions such as a series of computer instructions embodied in the computer readable storage medium.

In this regard and are flowcharts of methods systems and program products according to the invention. It will be understood that each block or step of the flowcharts and combinations of blocks in the flowcharts can be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be loaded onto a computer or other programmable apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus create means for implementing the functions specified in the flowcharts block s or step s . These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable memory that can direct a computer or other programmable apparatus to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable memory produce an article of manufacture including instruction means which implement the function specified in the flowcharts block s or step s . The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer or other programmable apparatus to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer or other programmable apparatus to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide steps for implementing the functions specified in the flowcharts block s or step s .

Accordingly blocks or steps of the flowcharts support combinations of means for performing the specified functions combinations of steps for performing the specified functions and program instruction means for performing the specified functions. It will also be understood that each block or step of the flowcharts and combinations of blocks or steps in the flowcharts can be implemented by special purpose hardware based computer systems which perform the specified functions or steps or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

Many modifications and other embodiments of the invention will come to mind to one skilled in the art to which this invention pertains having the benefit of the teachings presented in the foregoing descriptions and the associated drawings. Therefore it is to be understood that the invention is not to be limited to the specific embodiments disclosed and that modifications and other embodiments are intended to be included within the scope of the appended claims. Although specific terms are employed herein they are used in a generic and descriptive sense only and not for purposes of limitation.

