---

title: Inter-RAT (radio access technology) energy saving management
abstract: Systems, devices, and configurations to implement ESM (energy saving management) techniques in wireless networks are generally disclosed herein. In some examples, a distributed or centralized multi-RAT (radio access technology) technique is provided to implement ESM on a LTE (Long Term Evolution) or UMTS (Universal Mobile Telecommunications System) primary cell network. The technique may factor the number of UEs unable to be offloaded to another RAT (such as a Wi-Fi network), and the service impact threshold of implementing ESM on the primary wireless network. In further examples, an ESM deployment may factor the idle mode state of UEs (user equipment) in determining whether to proceed with ESM activation at a particular time on a particular cell network.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09264989&OS=09264989&RS=09264989
owner: Intel Corporation
number: 09264989
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120507
---
This application is a U.S. National Stage Filing under 35 U.S.C. 371 from International Patent Application Serial No. PCT US2012 036798 filed May 7 2012 published on Feb. 14 2013 as WO 2013 022505 A1 which claims the benefit of priority of two U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 522 623 filed Aug. 11 2011 and Ser. No. 61 542 086 filed Sep. 30 2011 which are herein incorporated by reference in their entireties.

Embodiments pertain to wireless networks and wireless network communications facilitated by various devices and systems. Some embodiments relate to energy saving techniques and controls implemented within wireless networks and associated devices and systems.

Existing wireless networks provide varying levels and implementations of energy saving management ESM techniques. ESM may be provided in cellular wide area wireless networks WWANs to power down cell base stations. One example ESM implementation introduced in the 3GPP Long Term Evolution Advanced LTE A Release 10 specification provides an intra radio access technology RAT scenario where all enhanced NodeB base stations eNodeBs utilize the same Radio Access Technology RAT and provide the same services.

Proposed inter RAT ESM approaches typically rely on moving a subscriber from a high speed RAT to a lower speed RAT when attempting to implement ESM on a high speed RAT. Subscribers however are unlikely to want to be downgraded to a less robust data connection at non peak times simply to save energy for network operators. Thus there is a need to provide a level of service that is acceptable to subscribers while implementing ESM and saving energy where possible.

Further some ESM approaches use traffic load statistics or threshold crossing to determine when ESM should be implemented and which cells should be switched off or on. Traffic load statistics do not adequately factor the different service capabilities and Quality of Service QoS associated with different RAT.

The following description and the drawings sufficiently illustrate specific embodiments to enable those skilled in the art to practice them. Other embodiments may incorporate structural logical electrical process and other changes. Portions and features of some embodiments may be included in or substituted for those of other embodiments. Embodiments set forth in the claims encompass all available equivalents of those claims.

Various techniques and configurations described herein may provide energy saving management ESM in wireless network architectures implementing multiple radio access technologies RATs and facilitating Inter RAT communications e.g. a communication being transferred or facilitated among multiple RATs . For example in some embodiments Inter RAT ESM techniques are provided to factor the service impact of decreased resources during initiation or maintenance of ESM. In some further embodiments the initiation or maintenance of such Inter RAT ESM techniques are provided to support UE user equipment operating in an idle mode.

One consideration for implementing Inter RAT ESM is to determine the level of impact of decreased services during ESM that can be acceptable to subscribers. Limited inter RAT approaches have been proposed that transfer subscribers between different RAT specifically to lower speed RAT e.g. GSM Global System for Mobile Communications UMTS Universal Mobile Telecommunications System to implement ESM. These approaches however are not able to address the service impact issue on some subscribers from Inter RAT ESM.

For example a LTE network may provide hot spot coverage to increase network capacity in an attempt to mitigate traffic congestion during peak hours. During non peak hours the LTE data network may switch users from an enhanced Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network eUTRAN to a GSM EDGE Radio Access Network GERAN or a UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access Network UTRAN to implement ESM and power down LTE cells. While most subscribers in off peak hours may not be using data intensive applications the remaining subscribers are likely to be unhappy with the speed quality and level of service from a GERAN or UTRAN network

The presently described methods and system configurations for Inter RAT communications are provided to address such service impacts while meeting the energy service requirements and objectives. In one embodiment the presently described techniques use multiple RAT coordination to provide an adequate level of services to subscribers during the energy saving interval rather than using a single RAT or lower speed RAT that may cause a huge impact to user services and UE performance. In some embodiments the Inter RAT ESM techniques coordinate data and voice services among multiple RATs to maintain an adequate level of service for users during the energy saving interval.

In further embodiments techniques are provided to ensure service levels for UEs operating in an idle mode. For example one technique disclosed herein factors the behavior of UE in an idle mode into the ESM decision making process to more accurately determine an ESM interval and when to activate ESM. Idle mode UE behavior is not adequately considered or factored with existing Inter RAT ESM techniques. Factoring idle mode UE behavior may help ensure that UE services are not impacted because the ESM is prematurely or incorrectly implemented.

Wi Fi offloading may provide one cost effective solution to mitigate the network congestion and quality issue for ESM purposes. In some embodiments Wi Fi is implemented as the secondary service RAT to provide back up coverage during the energy saving interval when primary service RAT e.g. LTE cells are switched off from ESM.

For example LTE networks may be deployed with hotspot coverage to meet the demand of high speed data services. Fourth generation devices such as smartphones and tablets are often enabled to access LTE services. Typically these fourth generation devices are also equipped with Wi Fi networking e.g. devices that are compliant with a network standard selected from the IEEE 802.11 standards family . In many cellular networks LTE provides data only service. Many cellular network operators use 2G 3G legacy systems such as UMTS or CDMA to provide voice services because the deployment of voice over LTE VoLTE is not currently widespread.

In many settings Wi Fi networks may be accessible by fourth generation devices to provide high speed data service at LTE or near LTE speeds. Use of Wi Fi by fourth generation devices in many cases may address network operator concerns that legacy GSM UMTS RATs are unable able to provide the services that LTE subscribers paid for. For example during the off peak hours late evenings nights or early mornings LTE devices are likely to be located at homes that are within the coverage of a Wi Fi network. As described herein ESM techniques for the LTE network may be implemented using Wi Fi offloading functions. These Wi Fi offloading functions may be used in connection with offloading techniques as defined in 3GPP or other wireless network specifications.

As illustrated in one or more access points such as a Wi Fi access point may be configured to establish and provide the Wi Fi network that is capable of providing connections to the internet or another wide area network for UEs such as the UE . The Wi Fi network provided from the Wi Fi access point may be used to offer data services to the UE . The voice network provided from the UMTS Cell 1 may be used to offer voice services to the UE . Therefore when ESM is implemented to deactivate the LTE Cell 1 a continuous data service offering may still be provided to the UE .

Further the operation of ESM with the primary data network the LTE Cell 1 and the LTE Cell 2 does not affect UEs which are not primary network capable e.g. 3G or older technology capable devices or are out of range of the primary network cell e.g. out of range of the LTE Cell 1 or the LTE Cell 2 or the secondary RAT network e.g. out of range of the Wi Fi network . These devices include the UEs and shown as being out of range or not capable of communicating with the LTE Cell 1 which may obtain data services from the UMTS Cell 1 and the UEs shown as being out of range or not capable of communicating with the LTE Cell 2 which may obtain data services from the UMTS Cell 2 .

In some settings one or more LTE cells may be deployed to provide hot spot data only coverage to increase the network capacity as an attempt to mitigate data traffic congestion during peak hours. In the Inter RAT ESM scenario different RATs may provide different services and may need to be factored in the ESM implementation. For example GSM UMTS networks may be used to provide circuit switched CS voice service and low to medium speed data services while LTE may be used to provide high speed data services. Therefore dual mode UE providing access to GSM UMTS and LTE may be used to provide the basic voice and data services for network subscribers. In other settings ESM may be implemented on UMTS networks for UMTS networks that provide both data and voice services.

The following terms are used to distinguish between different types of cells involved in an ESM implementation. An Energy Saving Cell is used to refer to cells that are or are intended to be placed in energy saving mode. An Energy Saving Backup Cell refers to cells that provide services to UE that were or are intended to be detached from Energy Saving Cells.

For example in one embodiment GSM UMTS CDMA networks serve as Energy Saving Backup cells to provide basic coverage that includes emergency services e.g. E911 and should not be Energy Saving Cells. Hence in one Inter RAT ESM scenario cells operating according to LTE or another 4G protocol would serve as the Energy Saving Cells. In another scenario cells operating according to UMTS e.g. HSPA or another 3G 3.5G protocol would serve as the Energy Saving Cells.

Given the concerns that customers subscribed to 4G or other high speed services will become dissatisfied when their service has been downgraded to GERAN or UTRAN or other older network technology it is important to minimize the service impact during the energy saving interval. This may be accomplished through the use of a secondary network such as a Wi Fi network providing a backup data service.

The following table shows that multiple RAT and the associated services are used to carry the traffic for LTE and UMTS in the energy saving mode. Each UMTS UE is also dual mode that has both accesses to both UMTS and GSM radio access networks.

Deploying ESM with multiple RAT may be performed with either centralized multiple RAT ESM or distributed multiple RAT ESM techniques. These techniques are addressed in the following sections.

The following provides an overview of implementing centralized ESM for LTE and UMTS RAT according to one example embodiment. This ESM procedure includes 1 Energy saving initiation The procedure to prepare a cell or network element NE e.g. a NodeB or an eNodeB prior to energy saving activation and 2 Energy saving activation The procedure to switch off a cell or NE or restrict the usage of physical resources for energy saving purposes. As a result of these two operations a specific network element may be transitioned into an energy saving state.

In this example scenario an LTE capable UE is dual mode that is capable of connection to both LTE and UMTS GSM cells. The ESM is only implemented on data services of the LTE cell and ESM provides no impact to UE s access to voice services offered by UMTS GSM.

The NE requests the attached at least one UE to initiate Wi Fi offloading operation . The NE returns to OAM the number of UE that cannot be offloaded to a secondary RAT e.g. Wi Fi operation .

The OAM is configured to perform the energy saving activation on the NE operation if the number of remaining UE is not greater than the service impact threshold decision . The service impact threshold may be a variable fixed predetermined or run time determined value. OAM performs an energy saving deactivation procedure not shown at a predetermined time at the time determined by statistics based ESM or in response to an indication from the energy saving NE indicating a surge of data traffic.

In this example scenario a UMTS UE is dual mode that is capable of connection to both UMTS data cells e.g. HSPA cell and GSM cells. The following is the concept of energy saving activation for a UMTS network illustrated with further operations in .

As depicted in the OAM performs the energy saving initiation on an NE operation at the time determined by statistics based ESM operation . The NE requests the attached UE to initiate Wi Fi offloading if such a UE has subscribed to the data services operation and will roam to the GSM cell for voice operations operation .

The NE returns the number of UEs that cannot be offloaded to a secondary network e.g. a Wi Fi network operation and the number of UE that cannot be roamed to a GSM cell for voice operations operation .

The OAM should perform the energy saving activation of the NE operation if the number of remaining UEs is not greater than the service impact threshold decision and there is no UE that cannot roam to the GSM cell decision .

Again the OAM is configured to perform the energy saving deactivation for the UMTS NE at a predetermined time at the time determined by statistics based ESM or in response to an indication from the energy saving NE indicating a surge of data traffic.

The following concepts describe distributed ESM for LTE and UMTS RATs. provides an illustration of energy saving activation in a distributed Multiple RAT ESM scenario. As depicted in a similar fashion to at least one Operations Administration and Management OAM unit performs ESM in connection with at least one NE and at least one UE .

Further operations for the distributed multiple RAT ESM scenario is described with reference to for an LTE RAT and a UMTS RAT.

An LTE UE is typically a dual mode device that may connect to both LTE and UMTS GSM cells. In this scenario the ESM is only implemented for the LTE cell providing data services and has no impact to the UE s access to UMTS GSM providing voice services .

As further depicted in the OAM configures the schedule of ESM activation and deactivation operation and configures the service impact threshold at the LTE NE operation . At the scheduled or otherwise determined energy activation time operation the NE requests the attached UEs to perform ESM initiation operation resulting in the initiation of Wi Fi offloading at the UEs .

The NE may be configured to perform the energy saving activation operation if the number of UEs that cannot offload to the secondary network e.g. the Wi Fi network is not greater than the service impact threshold decision . The NE should perform the energy saving deactivation not shown at the scheduled energy saving deactivation time or as requested by OAM .

An UMTS UE is typically a dual mode device that may connect to UMTS cells for voice and data and GSM cells for voice . The following is the concept of energy saving activation when the NE is a UMTS NE.

As depicted in the OAM configures the schedule of ESM activation and deactivation operation and configures the service impact threshold at the UMTS NE operation . At the scheduled or otherwise determined energy activation time operation the NE requests the attached UE to perform ESM initiation operation .

The ESM initiation results in the initiation of offloading UE data connections to the secondary network such as using Wi Fi offloading operation if such UEs subscribe to the data services. The NE will further issue a command to the UE to roam to the GSM cell operation . This will result in an indication of the number of UEs unable to be offloaded operation and the number of UEs unable to be roamed to the GSM cell operation .

The NE may be configured to perform the energy saving activation operation if there are no UEs that are unable to roam to the GSM cell decision and the number of remaining UEs unable to be offloaded are not greater than the service impact threshold decision . The NE may perform the energy saving deactivation not shown at the scheduled energy saving deactivation time or as requested by OAM .

Typical ESM algorithms use threshold crossing or traffic load statistics to determine whether the hot spot cells should be switched off for ESM purposes. Using traffic load statistics does not effectively work in all Inter RAT ESM settings because it does not factor the different service capabilities and QoS levels associated with different RATs. The following describes various techniques for deploying Inter RAT energy saving management supporting idle mode UEs.

Some existing ESM techniques attempt to factor UEs in idle mode by including additional measurements before performing ESM. For example some techniques include monitoring and factoring the number of UE currently attached to a cell in the ESM decision making process.

This measurement focuses on the number of UE that are actively connected to the eNodeB. The number of idle mode UE in a cell may not always be available since the eNodeB is not able to know the exact UE location until a location update that is determined by the location update timer typically in the range of minutes . However the number of connected mode UE is always available. When the number of connected mode UE is higher than a determined threshold the UE may generate significant traffic after being handed over to UMTS GSM cells. If the number of connected mode UE is equal to or lower than a determined threshold the ESM service impact is acceptable and the energy saving can be activated.

The idle mode UE has a specific behavior that can be detected and used to enhance ESM decision making. The detection and response to typical idle mode UE behavior is based on the following assumptions during the off peak hours most UE are in an idle mode and during the off peak hours most UE are stationary such as being used by a user at home and should be associated with the same eNodeB as the one used to previously enter the idle mode. Detection of the idle mode may require that ISR Idle state Signaling Reduction be supported. Further techniques to factor UE idle mode states are discussed in the following sections.

A further assumption that may apply to most use cases is that the UEs in idle mode are connected to both E UTRAN and GERAN UTRAN networks and should be in the EMM REGISTERED state. This enables the UEs to be paged for downlink messages from the E UTRAN LTE and GERAN UTRAN GSM UMTS networks.

In a multi RAT scenario the UEs and have access to both LTE Cell 1 and UMTS Cell 3 while UEs and have access to both LTE Cell 2 and UMTS Cell 4 . Each UE may have ISR activated or deactivated.

To illustrate an example when the UEs and are ISR activated it means both UEs are registered with both the MME and the SGSN in LTE Cell 1 E UTRAN and UMTS Cell 3 UTRAN respectively. When the LTE Cell 1 is switched off due to ESM the UEs and are still in EMM REGISTERED state and are registered at the UMTS Cell 3 UTRAN .

When the UE is ISR deactivated it means the UE is registered with the MME in the E UTRAN. When the LTE Cell 1 is switched off the UE is in the EMM DETACHED state and cannot send or receive any data. In such a setting ESM cannot be activated on LTE Cell 1 otherwise the UE will not be able to receive services.

Since the UEs are connected to the same eNodeB as the last time the UEs entered the idle mode during off peak hours the MME should be able to determine which eNodeB the UE is likely to reside on. Therefore the eNodeB of a network provided by the LTE RAT can use the ISR activation deactivation state of the UEs that are connected with the eNodeB as an indicator to determine if a UE may be connected with the GERAN UTRAN cells that can provide services during the ESM interval.

In some embodiments idle mode ESM activation may be provided in a distributed fashion. provides an illustration of a decentralized idle mode ESM activation operation provided by decentralized activities occurring at an eNodeB e.g. providing a RAT 2 Cell according to an example embodiment. As illustrated an OAM and a MME provide no or minimal involvement in the decentralized ESM activation.

The LTE cell eNodeB may initiate the energy saving measures at the time determined by the statistical load measurements or by crossing the relevant threshold operation . Next the LTE cell eNodeB monitors the number of UEs that are connected to it operation and determine the ISR activation deactivation state of the particular UEs operation . The LTE cell may need to communicate with the MME to obtain the ISR activation deactivation state information operation if such information is not available in the LTE cell eNodeB . If the number of UEs camped on the LTE cell eNodeB with ISR deactivated is equal to or less than a threshold decision then the LTE cell can proceed with ESM activation operation . Otherwise the LTE cell will not enter the ESM state operation .

For energy saving deactivation the secondary service such as the UMTS cell terminates the energy saving measures at the time determined by the statistical load measurements or by crossing the relevant threshold. For example the UMTS cell may ask the LTE cell that is backed up by the UMTS cell to terminate the energy saving measures. After being notified by the LTE cell that the energy saving measures have been terminated the UMTS cell incrementally asks the UE to perform tracking area updates TAU to connect to the LTE cell.

In some embodiments idle mode ESM activation may be provided in a centralized fashion. provides an illustration of a centralized idle mode ESM activation operation provided by a centralized idle mode ESM control flow according to an example embodiment.

As illustrated the OAM activates energy saving measures for the LTE cell at the time determined by the statistical load measurements or by crossing the relevant threshold operation . The OAM retrieves the number of UEs that are connected to it and the UE ISR activation deactivation state from the MME operation . A determination is made whether there are any UEs with ISR deactivated decision . If the number of UEs with ISR deactivated is equal to or less than a determined threshold then the OAM asks the eNodeB to activate ESM operations operation . The results of the ESM activation are then reported from the eNodeB back to the OAM operation . If there more than a threshold number of UEs with ISR deactivated then the LTE cell should not enter the ESM state operation since some UE services will be impacted.

As illustrated method used to establish ESM in a wireless network may include determining timing of ESM activation operation . This may be performed in connection with one or more determinations related to predetermined times and schedules or dynamic conditions such as traffic load statistics or service thresholds and other service related conditions. The timing activation and use of ESM in a wireless network may also factor the idle mode state of UEs connected to the wireless network operation .

Next the activation of the ESM may determine a service impact threshold operation for operations of the wireless network. The value or values for this service impact threshold may be calculated in real time calculated at a previous time retrieved from a stored value data source or determined or derived from any number of locations. As one example the service impact threshold may be a maximum number of users on a particular cell or group of cells that may handle a service impact such as 5 users maximum on a cell network having a maximum capacity of 100 total users.

Upon activation of ESM then the wireless network and components within the wireless network may attempt offloading UEs to a secondary network operation . The results of the offloading UEs to the secondary network such as the number of UEs unable to be successfully offloaded may then be factored operation . For example factoring the number of UEs unable to be offloaded may include performance of a comparison to a service impact threshold or a real time calculation. ESM and associated ESM operations may then be activated based on the comparison with the service level threshold operation . For example if 5 or more UEs were unable to be offloaded to the secondary network and the service level threshold is 5 users then ESM will not be activated. Likewise if fewer than 5 UEs were unable to be offloaded to the secondary network and the service level threshold is 5 users then ESM may be activated despite the potential loss or downgrade of service to the fewer than 5 UEs.

Although several of the described embodiments were included with reference to the use of LTE UMTS GSM Wi Fi and IEEE 802.11 standard wireless network implementations it will be understood that the present techniques may be implemented in connection with a variety of other wireless network standards such as WiMAX CDMA2000 EV DO and other 2G 3G 4G and 5G standard Wireless Wide Area Network WWAN protocols and devices. Therefore the term wireless network as used herein is not necessarily intended to be limiting to the use of any particular WWAN or WLAN network protocol but may also include a variety of wireless protocols and devices communicating via such wireless protocols.

As described herein various methods or techniques or certain aspects or portions thereof may take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as flash memory CD DVD ROMs hard drives portable storage devices or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the various techniques. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device may include a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. One or more programs that may implement or utilize the various techniques described herein may use an application programming interface API reusable controls and the like. Such programs may be implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s may be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and combined with hardware implementations.

Example computer system includes a processor e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU or both a main memory and a static memory which communicate with each other via an interconnect e.g. a link a bus etc. . The computer system may further include a video display unit an alphanumeric input device e.g. a keyboard and a user interface UI navigation device e.g. a mouse . In one embodiment the video display unit input device and UI navigation device are a touch screen display. The computer system may additionally include a storage device e.g. a drive unit a signal generation device e.g. a speaker an output controller a power management controller and a network interface device which may include or operably communicate with one or more antennas transceivers or other wireless communications hardware and one or more sensors such as a global positioning system GPS sensor compass location sensor accelerometer or other sensor.

The storage device includes a machine readable medium on which is stored one or more sets of data structures and instructions e.g. software embodying or utilized by any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The instructions may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory static memory and or within the processor during execution thereof by the computer system with the main memory static memory and the processor also constituting machine readable media.

While the machine readable medium is illustrated in an example embodiment to be a single medium the term machine readable medium may include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more instructions . The term machine readable medium shall also be taken to include any tangible medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the present disclosure or that is capable of storing encoding or carrying data structures utilized by or associated with such instructions. The term machine readable medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories and optical and magnetic media. Specific examples of machine readable media include non volatile memory including by way of example semiconductor memory devices e.g. Electrically Programmable Read Only Memory EPROM Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks.

The instructions may further be transmitted or received over a communications network using a transmission medium via the network interface device utilizing any one of a number of well known transfer protocols e.g. HTTP . Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN wide area network WAN the Internet mobile telephone networks Plain Old Telephone POTS networks and wireless data networks e.g. Wi Fi 3G and 4G LTE LTE A or WiMAX networks . The term transmission medium shall be taken to include any intangible medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying instructions for execution by the machine and includes digital or analog communications signals or other intangible medium to facilitate communication of such software.

Other applicable network configurations may be included within the scope of the presently described communication networks. Although examples were provided with reference to a local area wireless network configuration and a wide area internet network connection it will be understood that communications may also be facilitated using any number of personal area networks LANs and WANs using any combination of wired or wireless transmission mediums.

The embodiments described above may be implemented in one or a combination of hardware firmware and software. Embodiments may also be implemented as instructions stored on a computer readable storage device which may be read and executed by at least one processor to perform the operations described herein. A computer readable storage device may include any non transitory mechanism for storing information in a form readable by a machine e.g. a computer . For example a computer readable storage device may include read only memory ROM random access memory RAM magnetic disk storage media optical storage media flash memory devices and other storage devices and media.

It should be understood that the functional units or capabilities described in this specification may have been referred to or labeled as components or modules in order to more particularly emphasize their implementation independence. For example a component or module may be implemented as a hardware circuit comprising custom VLSI circuits or gate arrays off the shelf semiconductors such as logic chips transistors or other discrete components. A component or module may also be implemented in programmable hardware devices such as field programmable gate arrays programmable array logic programmable logic devices or the like. Components or modules may also be implemented in software for execution by various types of processors. An identified component or module of executable code may for instance comprise one or more physical or logical blocks of computer instructions which may for instance be organized as an object procedure or function. Nevertheless the executables of an identified component or module need not be physically located together but may comprise disparate instructions stored in different locations which when joined logically together comprise the component or module and achieve the stated purpose for the component or module.

Indeed a component or module of executable code may be a single instruction or many instructions and may even be distributed over several different code segments among different programs and across several memory devices. Similarly operational data may be identified and illustrated herein within components or modules and may be embodied in any suitable form and organized within any suitable type of data structure. The operational data may be collected as a single data set or may be distributed over different locations including over different storage devices and may exist at least partially merely as electronic signals on a system or network. The components or modules may be passive or active including agents operable to perform desired functions.

Additional examples of the presently described method system and device embodiments include the following non limiting configurations. Each of the following non limiting examples may stand on its own or may be combined in any permutation or combination with any one or more of the other examples provided below or throughout the present disclosure.

Example 1 includes a base station for example implemented by one or more systems apparatuses manufactures or devices comprising processing circuitry to implement energy saving management in a primary wireless network the processing circuitry arranged to attempt offloading of one or more devices attached to a primary wireless network cell provided by the base station the offloading being provided from the primary wireless network to a secondary wireless network wherein the secondary wireless network is provided using a different Radio Access Technology RAT than the primary wireless network determine a maximum service impact for any devices unsuccessfully offloaded to the secondary wireless network and implement energy saving management at the primary wireless network cell in response to not exceeding the maximum service impact.

In Example 2 the subject matter of Example 1 may optionally include the base station being an enhanced Node B eNodeB and wherein the eNodeB provides the primary wireless network according to a 3GPP Long Term Evolution LTE or Long Term Evolution Advanced LTE A standard.

In Example 3 the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 1 2 may optionally include the secondary wireless network being a Wi Fi network operating independent of the base station and wherein the Wi Fi network is provided according to a standard from the IEEE 802.11 standards family.

In Example 4 the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 1 3 may optionally include implementing or delaying the energy saving management at the primary wireless network cell based on devices attached to the primary wireless network cell in an idle mode.

In Example 5 the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 1 4 may optionally include factoring idle mode of the devices attached to the primary wireless network cell by performing centralized idle mode energy saving management techniques at the base station including determining Idle state Signaling Reduction ISR states of the devices attached to the primary wireless network cell from a Mobility Management Entity MME the MME supporting idle mode registration of the devices attached to the primary wireless network cell and proceeding with implementing the energy saving management at the primary wireless network cell if a number of devices having an deactivated ISR state is equal to or less than a determined threshold.

In Example 6 the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 1 5 may optionally include factoring idle mode of the devices attached to the primary wireless network cell by performing distributed idle mode energy saving management techniques at the base station including determining a number of the devices attached to the primary wireless network cell having a deactivated Idle state Signaling Reduction ISR state based on Operations Administration and Management OAM and Mobility Management Entity MME operations to determine devices associated with the primary wireless network cell and ISR activation states of the devices and proceeding with implementing the energy saving management at the primary wireless network cell if the number of devices having a deactivated ISR state is less than a determined threshold.

In Example 7 the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 1 6 may optionally include determining whether the devices attached to the primary wireless network cell are in a connected mode and implement or delay the energy saving management at the primary wireless network cell based on a number of the devices attached to the primary wireless network cell determined to be in a connected mode.

In Example 8 the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 1 7 may optionally include the secondary wireless network is configured for providing a speed quality and level of service equal or greater than the primary wireless network.

In Example 9 the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 1 8 may optionally include a timing of initiating the energy saving management being determined using one or more statistics based network conditions.

In Example 10 the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 1 9 may optionally include a timing of initiating the energy saving management being determined using one or more activation schedules.

In Example 11 the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 1 10 may optionally include the primary wireless network being a UMTS network wherein the offloading of the one or more devices includes a request to roam the one or more devices to a GSM cell and wherein the implementing energy saving management at the primary wireless network cell includes factoring a number of devices unable to be roamed to the GSM cell.

Example 12 may include or may optionally be combined with the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 1 11 to include a method e.g. a process technique or procedural implementation for implementing energy saving management for network equipment of a primary network comprising attempting to offload from a primary wireless network to a secondary wireless network one or more devices connected to the primary wireless network wherein communications in the secondary wireless network are conducted according to a different network type than the primary wireless network determining results of offloading the one or more devices to the secondary wireless network the results including a number of devices unsuccessfully offloaded to the secondary wireless network and activating energy saving management at the primary wireless network in response to the number of devices unsuccessfully offloaded to the secondary wireless network not exceeding a maximum number of devices.

In Example 13 the subject matter of Example 12 may optionally include the network equipment of the primary network being provided by an enhanced Node B eNodeB and wherein the eNodeB operates according to a Long Term Evolution LTE or Long Term Evolution Advanced LTE A standard.

In Example 14 the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 12 13 may optionally include the secondary network being a Wi Fi network operating independent of the primary wireless network and wherein the Wi Fi network operates according to a standard from the IEEE 802.11 standards family.

In Example 15 the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 12 14 may optionally include implementing energy saving management at the primary wireless network including factoring idle mode of the devices attached to the primary wireless network by determining whether any device attached to the primary wireless network has a deactivated Idle state Signaling Reduction ISR state based on Operations Administration and Management OAM and Mobility Management Entity MME operations to retrieve devices associated with the primary wireless network and ISR activation states of the devices and activating the energy saving management at the primary wireless network if the number of devices having a deactivated ISR state is less than a determined threshold.

In Example 16 the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 12 15 may optionally include requesting the ISR activation states of each device from the MME to determine the ISR state.

In Example 17 the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 12 16 may optionally include determining whether any device has a deactivated ISR state is performed at the OAM and wherein an enhanced NodeB eNodeB providing the primary wireless network is used to provide an energy saving management activation status to the OAM.

Example 18 may include or may optionally be combined with the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 1 17 to include a system e.g. a configuration or arrangement of one or more manufactures apparatuses devices or subsystems comprising one or more network equipment one or more Operations Administration and Management OAM subsystems configured to activate energy saving management of the one or more network equipment by causing the one or more network equipment to provide a request to initiate multi Radio Access Technology multi RAT network offloading of one or more user equipment attached to a network provided by the one or more network equipment and processing circuitry arranged to determine results of initiating the multi RAT network offloading and proceed with the energy saving management of the one or more network equipment in response to a determined number of the one or more user equipment being successfully offloaded.

In Example 19 the subject matter of Example 18 may optionally include the one or more network equipment being configured to factor one or more service impact thresholds in determining whether to activate energy saving management.

In Example 20 the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 18 19 may optionally include the one or more network equipment being configured to determine the number of the one or more user equipment being successfully offloaded and wherein the one or more OAM subsystems factor the one or more service impact thresholds in determining whether to provide a command to the one or more network equipment to activate the energy saving management.

In Example 21 the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 18 20 may optionally include a Mobility Management Entity MME configured for supporting idle mode registration ISR of one or more user equipment wherein the one or more network equipment is configured to determine and factor the ISR state in connection with determining whether to activate the energy saving management and wherein the MME is configured to provide ISR states of the one or more user equipment to the one or more network equipment in response to a request.

Example 22 may include or may optionally be combined with the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 1 21 to include a system e.g. a configuration or arrangement of one or more manufactures apparatuses devices or subsystems comprising a primary network base station providing a primary wireless network a secondary network base station providing a secondary wireless network with a radio access technology RAT distinct from the primary wireless network one or more mobile wireless devices capable of multi RAT communication and attached to the primary wireless network wherein the primary network base station is configured for implementing energy saving management at the primary wireless network with operations to attempt offloading of the mobile wireless devices to the secondary wireless network determine a number of mobile wireless devices unable to be offloaded to the secondary wireless network and activate energy saving management at the primary wireless network based on the determination of the number of mobile wireless devices unable to be offloaded to the secondary wireless network.

In Example 23 the subject matter of Example 22 may optionally include the mobile wireless device being a computing device selected from the group consisting of a smartphone a personal digital assistant PDA a notebook computer a netbook computer and a tablet and wherein the mobile wireless device is configured as a dual mode user equipment to connect with the primary wireless network and the secondary wireless network.

In Example 24 the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 22 23 may optionally include the primary network base station being configured for factoring idle mode state of the one or more mobile wireless devices in determining whether to activate the energy saving management.

In Example 25 the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 22 24 may optionally include the operations to activate energy saving management at the primary wireless network being further based on a comparison of the number of mobile wireless devices unable to be offloaded to the secondary wireless network with one or more service level thresholds.

The Abstract of the Disclosure is intended to allow the reader to ascertain the nature and gist of the technical disclosure. It is submitted with the understanding that it will not be used to limit or interpret the scope or meaning of the claims. The following claims are hereby incorporated into the detailed description with each claim standing on its own as a separate embodiment.

