---

title: Identifying conversations in a social network system having relevance to a first file
abstract: Methods and systems for providing related conversations in a social network system are disclosed. One method includes identifying a plurality of conversations within the social network system, wherein the plurality of conversations each have a relationship with the first file, wherein the social network system provides a platform for storing and sharing conversation, and each conversation includes a conversation and associated information. The method further includes generating, by a system server, a list of inquiries based on the plurality of conversations, providing, by the system server, the list of inquiries to at least one sender of the first file, receiving from the at least one sender at least one response to the list of inquiries, selecting a subset of the plurality of conversations based on the at least one response, and storing information related to the selected subset of the plurality of conversations.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08812602&OS=08812602&RS=08812602
owner: Python4Fun, Inc.
number: 08812602
owner_city: San Mateo
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120403
---
The described embodiments relate generally to search results. More particularly the described embodiments relate to methods and systems for identifying conversations in a social network system having relevance to a first file . . . .

Search engines running on social network systems use a variety of search techniques to present individual messages or conversations to users based on one or more search terms that are provided by the users. The relevance of search results relate closely to the search terms one or more senders and date sent. The search engine generally produces a large number of conversations that include some irrelevant results and are difficult to sort for relevant messages or conversations. Many suggested conversations are not relevant to the user. Relevant results are not always provided.

It is desirable to have methods and systems for providing a list of conversations related to the selected conversation relevant to the subject matter of the selected conversation.

One embodiment includes a method of automatically identifying one or more conversations in a social network system related to a first file. The method includes identifying a plurality of conversations within the social network system wherein the plurality of conversations each have a relationship with the first file wherein the social network system provides a platform for storing and sharing conversation and each conversation includes a conversation and associated information. The method further includes generating by a system server a list of inquiries based on the plurality of conversations providing by the system server the list of inquiries to at least one sender of the first file receiving from the at least one sender at least one response to the list of inquiries selecting a subset of the plurality of conversations based on the at least one response and storing information related to the selected subset of the plurality of conversations for access if the first file is selected. Another embodiment includes providing the list of inquiries to more than one sender. In another embodiment a different list of inquiries is provided to a first sender and other senders. The identified conversations are ranked based on the responses from the senders and a subset of conversations is selected.

Other aspects and advantages of the described embodiments will become apparent from the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings illustrating by way of example the principles of the described embodiments.

The described embodiments are embodied in methods and systems for providing a set of conversations to a user in a social network system where the set of conversations have relevance to the first file from a search or retrieval of a record identifying the first file.

For at least some embodiments the social network system provides a platform for storing and sharing conversation and each conversation includes a conversation and associated information. For at least one embodiment the associated information includes at least metadata. The social network service consists of a representation of each user profile and social links. The social network service may provide means for interaction among users via email or instant messaging and provide means for sharing ideas status activities events and interests within a group of users. In the described embodiment a social network system may store the social network service. In several embodiments a social network system may be a professional network system such as LinkedIn or network system in enterprises such as Jive or Salesforce Chatter or social network systems such as Google Groups Facebook . In several embodiments status update refers to an initial post or change in the status of a user that may be visible to users within a group or users in the social network service. In several embodiments newsfeed refers to the contents posted by users such as photo tags friend requests event updates group memberships and other activity. Users may reply to content in the newsfeed. In an embodiment conversation refers to a sequence of status updates and replies in the newsfeed. The conversation may have one or more senders and one or more recipients. In an embodiment conversations may provide navigation through a group of status updates or replies to newsfeeds. In an embodiment replying to a conversation sends email to the recipients of the conversation in the newsfeed and may provide additional ability to add more recipients. In an embodiment users can send conversations and share the conversations in a mailing list. In an embodiment the shared conversations on mailing lists have viewers or senders. The social network system is accessible among the members of an enterprise or group. The social network system stores conversations and attachments of different formats not limited to pictures video files audio files word document power point presentations portable document format pdf and spreadsheets. In one embodiment of a social network system a user may reply to users in a conversation or reply to a select set of users in the conversation. In an embodiment any user may edit a conversation similar to a wiki. In another embodiment write privilege to a conversation may be assigned to a certain group of users such as team of senders or a team of people working on a project. In the described embodiments a first file is a message or a conversation in the social network system or on the disk drive of the user system or a conversation on the internet or a message on any other system identified to generate a list of related conversations. The first file may be a recently added conversation to the social network system or identified due a large number of conversations added to the social network system in the same subject matter or identified automatically for a periodic update of related conversations or identified by any other method. It is to be understood that for various embodiments the first file includes at least one of a web page a document an article a social profile a message a message thread a conversation a video file an audio file or a picture file. It is also to be understood that this is not an exhaustive list.

The social network system is updated constantly as users add conversations to the social network system. As the number of conversations grows large existence of the conversation may not be known to many users if relevant hyperlinks to other conversations are not created. Creating hyperlinks is a manual task and often few conversations are hyperlinked together in a social network system. Search engines provide access to the conversations that are not hyperlinked.

Unlike machine generated references using an algorithm running on a computer the judgment of senders in selecting reference conversation is valuable to other readers due to the sender s intrinsic understanding and motivation to identify materials related to the conversation written by that sender. In general a sender or expert has greater interest and more precise understanding of the subject matter of what they wrote compared to other readers. In the described embodiments a sender is an original sender a user who replies to the conversation a participant an expert on the subject matter or a team member or anyone who has write privilege to the first file.

Search engines list related conversations that are published before or after a conversation has been published. When a conversation is selected from the search results a set of related conversations may be presented by the search engine. The set of related conversations are based on some criteria such as the number of hyperlinks a conversation has common subject matter and the frequency of certain phrases. The number of hyperlinks is one of the criteria for search engines to list a conversation at the top of the related conversations. If a conversation has no hyperlinks the search engine may not list a conversation at the top though the conversation may be relevant. The criteria for suggesting a list of related conversations can be improved by using an expert or sender to recommend the conversations through hyperlinks. The process of semi automating the presentation of a list of related conversations is described in the embodiments.

A set of conversations related to the first is identified in social network system by server . In one embodiment identifying a conversation in social network system includes server identifying a set of conversations related to the first file and receiving the list of identified conversations. In another embodiment identifying in social network system includes server receiving the list of identified conversations. The set of identified conversations can be the output of a natural language search or text analysis or from collaborative filtering or any other search technique. The search can be based on a string of words or a picture or a sender. The set of identified conversations is derived based on a relationship with the first file. The relationship can be any one of or some of sender of the first file sender of the hyperlinks cited in the first file frequently used noun phrases date sent later than the first file a specific date sent or a date sent after a specific date. Replies to content in the newsfeed from a sender tend to have common subject matter. Frequently used noun phrases in the first file are also keywords for searching related conversations. However noun phrases in social network conversations may change with technology or over a period of time. Many search engines may not have the intelligence to recognize the changing noun phrases over a period. In some embodiments the full text of the conversation is used for searching to yield more relevant related conversations. Conversations with date sent later than the first file are valuable as users are generally interested in recent updates.

In an example a search engine operating on server uses the Facebook Graph API to identify related conversations in Facebook based on noun phrases in full text. Facebook Graph API is a powerful application programming interface that allows users to access and search conversations in the Facebook Newsfeed . The algorithm used to generate the search terms automatically extracts noun phrases from a conversation using natural language processing tools and ranks them by the number of occurrences in the conversation text compared to the number of occurrences on the web.

Server generates a list of inquiries based on the set of conversations related to the first file. In an embodiment the list of inquiries includes questions asking the sender whether the conversations are relevant to the first file and the search terms used in keyword search or noun phrase used to select the conversation.

For an embodiment referring back to a first sender is notified of the list of inquiries generated by server . In the described embodiments a first sender is the sender of the first file an expert on the subject matter or a team member or anyone who has write privilege to the first file. In the described embodiments the notification can be sent electronically. In an embodiment the notification email contains a hyperlink to a webpage that contains the list of inquiries. In another embodiment the email contains the text of the inquiries. In another embodiment the notification is sent by an email or message on a social network such as Facebook or instant message system. In another embodiment the notification is sent from a web based interface such as Jive or LinkedIn or Google Docs . The sender completes the inquiry by selecting one or more conversations related to the first file in the opinion of the sender and sends the response to the server using any of the notification methods described above. Server receives the response to the inquiry from the sender and processes the response. The response includes a selection of conversations related to the first file. In an embodiment the response includes a ranked list of the related conversations identifying the relevance of the related conversations to the first file. In an embodiment the sender includes the relationship of one or more conversations such as whether the conversation complements the first file or summarizes the first file or contradicts the first file.

In an embodiment conversations selected by the sender are ranked higher than the conversations not selected by the sender. A subset of the ranked conversations is selected. In another embodiment all conversations selected by the sender are selected. In another embodiment a certain number of ranked conversations are selected. Server creates a hyperlink between the first file and the subset of selected ranked conversations in the social network system. The hyperlink influences future search results of the engine when the first file or any of the subset of conversations is involved. Server stores information about the subset of related conversations in a storage system . The information includes one or more of hyperlinks to the related conversations ranking of the conversations the sender of the first file and metadata of the conversations. In the described embodiments hyperlinks are references to conversations that connect the users to another conversation or a portion of the conversation. In another embodiment storage system is a separate storage system. When a user selects the conversation identifier from search results or any other listing server retrieves information about the selected ranked related conversations. In an embodiment the user is presented with a list of information about the related conversations shown in . In one embodiment the identity of the senders who selected each conversation is revealed to the user by displaying meta data such as the sender s name qualifications institution affiliation address or contact information.

The list of inquiries generated by server is notified to the first sender . The list of inquiries is also notified to second senders . In the described embodiments the second sender is one or more senders other than the first sender. The first and second senders are notified electronically as described in conjunction with . Server receives responses from the first sender as well as the second senders. The response includes a selection of conversations related to the first file. In an embodiment the response includes a ranked list of the related conversations identifying the relevance of the related conversations to the first file. In an embodiment conversations are ranked based on the number of selections from the first and the second senders. In an embodiment the conversations selected by the first sender are ranked higher than the conversations selected by second senders. In another embodiment all responses are ranked with the same weight. In another embodiment a certain number of ranked conversations are selected. In another embodiment all conversations selected by the first sender and the second senders are selected.

Information about the selected ranked conversations is stored in storage system . User selection of the first file identifier from search results or any other listing is sent to server . Server retrieves information about the selected ranked list of related conversations from the social network system before presenting to the user. In one embodiment the identity of the senders who selected each conversation is revealed to the user by displaying meta data such as the sender s name qualifications institution affiliation address or contact information.

Second senders are notified electronically by methods discussed in conjunction with with the second list of inquiries. Server receives the second response from second senders and analyzes the second response. The second response further refines the machine generated search results. The second response includes a selection of conversations related to the first file. In an embodiment the second response includes a ranked list of the related conversations identifying the relevance of the related conversations to the first file. Server ranks a related conversation based on the number of selections from second senders. A subset of the ranked related conversations is selected.

In an embodiment server generates a questionnaire based on identified conversations related to the first file . The questionnaire includes the opinion of one or more senders of the identified conversations about the selection as a related conversation to the first file. The questionnaire is notified to the senders of identified conversations . Server receives response from the senders of identified conversations . In an embodiment server ranks an identified conversation based on the number of selections from second senders and the selection from the sender of identified conversations . A subset of the ranked related conversations is selected.

In an embodiment all conversations selected by second senders are selected. In another embodiment related conversations receiving a certain rank are selected. Information related to the ranked and first file is stored in storage system . In an embodiment the information related to the selected ranked conversations includes one or more of hyperlinks to the selected conversations the sender of the selected conversation the title of the selected conversation the senders the opinion of the sender of the selected conversation opinion of the senders of the first file sender s name qualifications institution affiliation address or contact information the published date and the selection rank date. When a user selects the first file identifier server retrieves the information related to the selected related conversations from storage system . In an embodiment information related to the subset of selected ranked conversations is presented to the user shown in . In one embodiment the identity of the senders who selected each conversation is presented to the user by displaying meta data such as the sender s name qualifications institution affiliation address and contact information. In another embodiment information about the opinion of the sender of the selected conversation is presented to the user.

The list of inquiries is notified to the sender of the conversation . A response is received from the sender. The response includes a selection of conversations related to the first file and optionally the reason for relevancy in the sender s opinion. In an embodiment the response includes a ranked list of the related conversations identifying the relevance of the related conversations to the first file. Server ranks the related conversations based on the response from the sender. A subset of the ranked related conversations is selected. Server stores information about the subset of selected ranked conversations in a storage system . When a second search yields a plurality of search results containing the information identifying first file server retrieves the stored information about the subset of selected ranked conversations and influences the ranking of the first file relative the search results when presenting the search results to the user. In one embodiment the identity of the senders who selected each conversation is revealed to the user by displaying meta data such as the sender s name qualifications institution affiliation address or contact information.

In step the server automatically generates a list of inquires based on the search results of step to access the relevancy of the search result. The list of inquiries includes questions about each related conversation. In an embodiment inquiries list the subject of one or more conversations identified in the search the date sent and the search terms used to identify the conversation. Other embodiments may not list all the above items. shows an example of the list of inquiries presented to senders. In step the list of inquiries is notified to at least one sender of the first file. In one embodiment the notification can be sent electronically by an email message or a message on a social network or instant message. Web based interface is another method of notifying the sender.

In step method receives at least one response to the list of inquiries from the senders. The response includes a selection whether any of the conversations are relevant to the first file. If any of the conversations is relevant a selection of the relevant conversation and optionally the reason for the conversation being relevant is presented. In an embodiment the response includes a list of the related conversations identifying the relevance of the related conversations to the first file. In step method analyzes the responses from the senders. The related conversations are ranked based on the number of selections received from the senders. A subset of the ranked related conversations is selected. In an embodiment all conversations selected by the senders are selected. In another embodiment a certain number of ranked conversations are selected. In another embodiment conversations receiving certain rank are selected. Method creates a hyperlink between the first file and the selected ranked subset of conversations. The hyperlink can influence the search results in the social network system when the first file is involved. In step information about the selected ranked conversations related to the first file is stored. The information about the selected ranked conversations includes at least one of hyperlinks to the conversations in the social network system the rank of each conversation in the selected subset metadata of the conversations. The information may be stored on the social network system or any other storage system.

Steps are performed to generate a list of selected ranked conversations that may be more relevant than the machine generated references. In an embodiment steps are performed once. In another embodiment steps are performed at certain fixed intervals. In another embodiment events such as addition of a certain number of conversations or a manual intervention may trigger steps .

in step method receives a selection of the first file identifier or information about the first file from a user. The conversation or information about the conversation may be selected from search results or from a list of conversations. The server retrieves the stored information about the selected ranked conversations in step . Information about the related conversations is displayed to the user in step as shown in . In one embodiment the identity of the senders who selected each conversation is revealed to the user by displaying meta data such as the sender s name qualifications institution affiliation address and contact information. Steps are performed when a user selects the first file for display.

In an embodiment each of the steps of method may be a distinct step. In other embodiments method may not have all of the above steps and or may have other steps in addition to or instead of those listed above. The steps of method may be performed in another order. Subsets of the steps listed above as part of method may be used to form their own method. In an embodiment there could be multiple instances of method .

In method a set of one or more conversations related to a first file is identified in step . In step a first list of inquiries about the set of conversations identified in step is generated. The first list of inquiries includes questions whether each of the identified conversations are related to the first file and optionally why they are related. In the described embodiment steps and are similar to steps and respectively. The first list of inquiries is notified to a first sender of the first file in step . A first response to the first list of inquiries is received in step . The response includes a selection of conversations related to the first file and optionally the reason for the selection. In step a second list of inquires based on the response from the first sender about the relevance of the set of conversations to the first file is generated. In an embodiment the second list of inquiries includes a list of conversations selected by the first sender for selecting conversations related to the first file. In an embodiment the second list of inquires includes questions whether the second sender agrees with the first sender. In another embodiment the second list of inquiries includes the reason for a conversation being relevant to the first file.

One or more second senders of the first file are notified with the second list of inquiries in step . In step one or more second response is received from the second senders . In an embodiment a questionnaire is generated based on the list of identified conversations in step A. The questionnaire includes whether the identified conversation is related to the first file. The questionnaire is notified to one or more senders of the plurality of identified conversations. In step B server receives response from one or more senders of the plurality of identified conversations.

In step the second response from the second senders is analyzed. In an embodiment conversations are ranked based on the number of selections from the second senders. In an embodiment the response includes identifying the relevance of the related conversations to the first file. A subset of the ranked conversations is selected. In an embodiment all conversations selected by the second senders are selected. In another embodiment a certain number of ranked conversations or conversations with a certain rank are selected. Method creates a hyperlink between the first file and the selected ranked subset of conversations. The hyperlink can influence the search results in the social network system when the first file is involved. In step information about the selected ranked subset of conversations related to the first file is stored in a storage system.

Steps are performed to generate a list of selected ranked conversations that may be more relevant than the machine generated references. In an embodiment steps are performed once. In another embodiment steps are performed at certain fixed intervals. In another embodiment events such as addition of a certain number of conversations or a manual intervention may trigger steps .

In step the server receives a selection of the first file identifier. Information about the related conversations of the first file stored in a storage system is retrieved in step . Information about the list of related conversations is presented to the user in step . Steps are performed when a user selects the first file for display. Steps and are similar to steps and respectively. In an embodiment each of the steps of method may be a distinct step. In other embodiments method may not have all of the above steps and or may have other steps in addition to or instead of those listed above. The steps of method may be performed in another order. Subsets of the steps listed above as part of method may be used to form their own method. In an embodiment there could be multiple instances of method .

A list of inquiries is generated based on the conversations related to the first file in step . The list of inquiries includes whether each conversation listed as related conversation from the search results is related to the first file and optionally the reason for being related. In step the list of inquiries is notified to one or more senders. In step method receives at least one response from the senders providing information about the relevancy of related conversations to the first file and optionally the reason for a conversation being related the opinion of the sender. In step the related conversations are ranked based on the number of selections from the senders. In an embodiment the response includes a ranked list of the related conversations identifying the relevance of the related conversations to the first file. A subset of the ranked conversations is selected. Information related to the subset of conversations is stored in a storage system in step . Method creates a hype clink between the first file and the selected ranked subset of conversations. The hyperlink can influence the search results in the social network system when the first file is involved. Steps and may be similar to steps and .

Steps are performed to generate a list of selected ranked conversations that may be more relevant than the machine generated referenced. In an embodiment steps are performed once. In another embodiment steps are performed at certain fixed intervals. In another embodiment events such as addition of a certain number of conversations or a manual intervention may trigger steps .

A second search in the social network system using a search engine yields a first file and the server receives a selection of the first file identifier in step . The selection of the first file can influence the search results of future searches. The server retrieves information about the related conversations stored in step from the storage system in step . In step information about the related conversations is presented to the user. In one embodiment the identity of the senders who selected each conversation is revealed to the user by displaying meta data such as the sender s name qualifications institution affiliation address or contact information. Steps and may be similar to steps and . Steps and are repeated for every search yielding the first file. In an embodiment each of the steps of method may be a distinct step. In other embodiments method may not have all of the above steps and or may have other steps in addition to or instead of those listed above. The steps of method may be performed in another order. Subsets of the steps listed above as part of method may be used to form their own method. In an embodiment there could be multiple instances of method .

One or more conversations related to a first file in the social network system are identified by server or server or server . In the described embodiments the first file can reside in a sender system or in the social network system or in server system . In several embodiments the related conversations are identified by a natural language search or text analysis or from collaborative filtering or any other search techniques. In an embodiment server or or extracts noun phrases from conversations in the social network system using natural language processing tools and ranks them by the number of occurrences in the conversation compared to the number of occurrences on the social network system. In one embodiment server searches the social network system using Facebook Graph API to automatically extract noun phrases from conversations in Gmail using natural language processing tools and rank them by the number of occurrences in the conversation compared to the number of occurrences on the social network system. In an embodiment hyperlink validation is used to generate the list of related conversations.

In an embodiment the list of inquiries generated by the system server includes one or more identified conversations related to a first file. In an embodiment the inquiries include the search terms used in a search using text analysis or collaborative filtering. In another embodiment the list of inquires includes one or more identified conversations and the noun phrases from the first file used to identify the conversations. In an embodiment the list of inquiries presented to the first sender includes one or more subjects of related of conversations the search term used to identify the related conversations the noun phrases which are validated by their presence in the hyperlinks of the first file the date sent. The list of inquiries for second senders is influenced by a response received from a first sender. The list of inquiries to second senders in includes one or more of the selection of related conversations by the first sender the search terms used to identify the related conversation the noun phases used in hyperlink validation techniques and the date sent. In an embodiment a questionnaire is generated to the senders of the identified conversations. In an embodiment the list of inquiries includes one or more of the types of relationship tags of the identified conversation such as whether the identified conversation summarizes the first file contradicts the first file or complements the first file. In an embodiment the list of inquiries includes one or more of the types of relationship tags of the identified file such as whether the identified web pages summarizes the first file contradicts the first file or complements the first file. The questionnaire may contain questions whether the identified conversation is related to the first file. The list of inquires is notified electronically to one or more senders. The notification comprises at least one of an email message messaging on a social network instant message or a web based interface notification.

The related conversations are ranked based on the number of selections from the senders. In an embodiment a selection of the related conversation from each sender is ranked equally. In another embodiment selection of a conversation from the first sender receives higher ranking. In another embodiment selection of a conversation from a sender who responds to queries more often is ranked higher. In another embodiment selection by the sender of the identified conversation is ranked higher. In another embodiment selection of a conversation by the sender of the first file and sender of the second conversation is ranked highest. A subset of the related web pages is selected. In an embodiment all conversations selected by the senders are selected. A subset of the related conversations is selected. In an embodiment all conversations selected by the senders are selected. In another embodiment a certain number of the ranked conversations are selected. In another embodiment conversations receiving a certain rank are selected.

In an embodiment a method of identifying conversations of a social network system having relevance to a first file comprising identifying a plurality of conversations within the social network system wherein the plurality of conversations each have a relationship with the first file generating by a system server a list of inquiries based on the plurality of conversations providing by the system server the list of inquiries to at least one sender of the first file receiving from the at least one sender at least one response to the list of inquiries selecting a subset of the plurality of conversations based on the at least one response storing information related to the selected subset of the plurality of conversations for access if the first file is select.

In an embodiment the method generating by the system server a second list of inquiries based on the plurality of conversations providing by the system server the second list of inquiries to at least one second sender of the plurality of conversations receiving from the at least one second sender of the plurality of conversations at least one second response to the second list of inquiries re selecting the subset of the plurality of conversations based on the at least one response and the at least one second response and storing information related to the re selected subset of the plurality of conversations for access if the first file is selected. In an embodiment a method further comprising providing by the system server the selected subset of the plurality of conversations to a user that selects the first file and identifying the at least one sender to the user. In an embodiment a method wherein identifying the at least one sender comprises providing the user with the at least one sender s name qualifications institution affiliation address or contact information. In an embodiment a method comprising providing by the system server the selected subset of the plurality of conversations to a user that selects the first file and identifying the at least one sender of the first file and the at least one sender of the plurality of conversations to the user wherein identifying the at least one sender comprises providing the user with the at one of a name qualifications institution affiliation address or contact information of the at least one sender. In an embodiment a method comprising providing a hyperlink between the first file and the selected subset of the plurality of conversations wherein the hyperlink influences a ranking of search results that include at least one of the first file and the plurality of conversations. In an embodiment a method wherein the plurality of conversations are each identified by a plurality of subject matter searches wherein each search identifies one of the plurality of conversations and the first file. In an embodiment a method wherein at least one of the plurality of subject matter searches is refined by the at least one response.

In an embodiment a method wherein at least one of the plurality of subject matter searches uses a keyword search application programming interface to access conversations in the social network system. In an embodiment a method wherein the list of inquiries includes search terms used in a search that identified the first file and the plurality of conversations thereby establishing a relationship between the first file and the plurality of conversations by text analysis or collaborative filtering. In an embodiment a method wherein the search terms comprise strings of words or noun phrases. In an embodiment a method wherein the search terms comprise sender names cited by the first file. In an embodiment a method wherein the search terms comprise a term within the first file. In an embodiment a method where the search is based on at least one of a word string a sender or an image. In an embodiment a method wherein the search terms are included within text of hyperlinks of the first file. In an embodiment a method wherein each of the plurality of conversations includes a publication date wherein each of the publication dates is more recent than at least one of a first revision or a last revision date of the first file.

In an embodiment a method wherein each of the plurality of conversations includes a publication date herein each of the publication dates is a specific date. In an embodiment a method wherein each of the plurality of conversations includes a publication date wherein each of the publication dates comprises a date before a specific date. In an embodiment a method wherein the list of inquiries includes titles of at least a subset of the plurality of conversations. In an embodiment a method wherein the list of inquiries includes senders of at least a subset of the plurality of conversations.

In an embodiment a method wherein the at least one sender includes a first sender and a second sender and wherein the list of inquiries for the first sender is influenced by a response received from the second sender. In an embodiment a method wherein the list of inquiries includes a relationship tag between at least one of the plurality of conversations and the first file. In an embodiment a method where in the relationship tag comprises at least one question of whether the relationship of the least one the plurality of conversations to the first file is supportive contradictory or summarizing. In an embodiment a method wherein providing the list of inquiries to the at least one sender of the first file comprises electronically communicating the list of inquires to the at least one sender using a notification. In an embodiment a method wherein the notification comprises at least one of an email messaging on a social network or instant message. In an embodiment a method wherein the notification comprises a web based interface notification. In an embodiment a method wherein receiving from the at least one sender at least one response to the list of inquiries comprises receiving a selected subset of the plurality of conversations that the at least one sender selects as being relevant to the first file.

In an embodiment a method wherein receiving from the at lea one sender at least one response to the list of inquiries comprises receiving a ranked list of at least a subset of the plurality of conversations that identifies an order of relevance of the at least the subset of the plurality of conversations to the first file. In an embodiment a method comprising providing the at least one inquiry based on one response to at least one other sender receiving from the at least one other sender at least one second response to the at least one response re selecting the subset of the plurality of conversations based on the at least one second response storing information related to the re selected subset of the plurality of conversations for access if the first file is selected. In an embodiment a method wherein the list of inquiries is provided to a plurality of senders and responses received from each of the plurality of senders are compiled for selecting the subset of the plurality of conversations. In an embodiment a method wherein a plurality of lists of inquiries are provided to a plurality of senders and responses received from each of the plurality of senders are compiled for selecting the subset of the plurality of conversations.

In an embodiment a method comprising the at least one sender having a permission to edit the first file. In an embodiment a method for a server to identify conversations having relevance to a first file comprising receiving by the server a plurality of conversations wherein the plurality of conversations were generated by a subject matter search generating by the server a list of inquiries based on the plurality of conversations providing by the server the list of inquiries to a sender of the first wherein the first is a one of the plurality of conversations receiving by the server from the sender at least one response to the list of inquiries selecting by the server a subset of the plurality of conversations based on the at least one response storing by the server the selected subset of the plurality of conversations for access if the first file is selected. In an embodiment a method comprising providing by the server the selected subset of the plurality of conversations to a user that selects the first file. In an embodiment a system for identifying conversations having relevance to a first comprising a server configured to present on a first display a list of inquiries to an identified sender of a first file wherein the list of inquiries is based on a plurality of conversations the server configured to receive from the identified sender at least one response to the list of inquiries the server configured to select a subset of the plurality of conversations based on the at least one response a server configured to present on a second display the selected subset of the plurality of conversations to a user that selects the first file. In an embodiment a programmable storage device readable by a machine tangibly embodying a program of instructions when executed by the machine to perform a method of identifying conversations of a social network system having relevance to a first file the method comprising identifying a plurality of conversations within the social network system wherein the plurality of conversations each have a relationship with the first file generating by a system server a list of inquiries based on the plurality of conversations providing by the system server the list of inquiries to at least one sender of the first file receiving from the at least one sender at least one response to the list of inquiries selecting a subset of the plurality of conversations based on the at least one response storing information related to the selected subset of the plurality of conversations for access if the first file is selected. In an embodiment a method of identifying conversations of a social network system having relevance to a first file comprising identifying a plurality of conversations within the social network system wherein the plurality of conversations each have a relationship with the first file generating by a system server a first list of inquiries based on the plurality of conversations providing by the system server the first list of inquiries to at least one sender of the first file receiving from the at least one sender of the plurality of conversations at least one first response to the first list of inquiries generating by the system server a second list of inquiries based on the plurality of conversations providing by the system server the second list of inquiries to at least one second sender of the plurality of conversations receiving from the at least one second sender of the plurality of conversations at least one second response to the second list of inquiries selecting a subset of the plurality of conversations based on the at least one first response and the at least one second response storing information related to the selected subset of the plurality of conversations for access if the first file is selected.

In an embodiment a method wherein the information related to the selected subset of the plurality of conversations comprises an opinion of the at least one sender of either the first file or the plurality of conversations. In an embodiment a method comprises providing the opinion of the at least one sender to a user that selects the first file.

As shown in for the described embodiments server system includes processor system and memory system among others. Server system consists of on one or more servers connected to the network. Server system can be a single unit distributed in various locations or virtualized. Processor system may include any one of some of any combination of or all of multiple parallel processors a single processor a system of processors having one or more central processors and or one or more specialized processors dedicated to specific tasks. Also processor system may include one or more Digital Signal Processors DSPs in addition to or in place of one or more Central Processing Units CPUs and or may have one or more digital signal processing programs that run on one or more CPU.

Memory system may include for example any one of some of any combination of or all of a tong term storage system such as a hard drive a short term storage system such as random access memory a removable storage system such as a floppy drive or a removable drive and or flash memory. Memory system may include one or more machine readable mediums that may store a variety of different types of information. The term machine readable medium is used to refer to any medium capable carrying information that is readable by a machine. One example of a machine readable medium is a computer readable medium.

In an embodiment memory system stores code for search engine code to identify plurality of conversations code to generate a list of inquiries and questionnaire and code to select rank subset of plurality of conversations . Memory system stores code for the search engine to search the social network system for conversations related to a first file and returns the result to server system . In the described embodiments the first file can reside in the social network system or sender system or storage system for information related to selected ranked subset of conversations or memory system or any other storage system. In an embodiment the search engine searches the subject heading of conversations. In another embodiment the search engine searches the entire conversation for keywords. The results from the search engine are ranked in order of relevancy. The relevancy may be the number of times the keyword appears in the conversation and the number of hyperlinks.

The keywords for searching related conversations are supplied by the code to identify plurality of conversations . The keywords my be all of or some of frequently used noun phrases the sender of the first file the senders listed in the references cited in the first file words from the subject date sent words related to subject matter. Once the server receives the list of conversations related to the first file an inquiry is automatically generated by code to generate a list of inquiries and sent to one or more senders. The list of inquiries is based on the search results. The inquiries include the relevancy of each of conversations listed as a related conversation to the first file the reason for the conversation being related to the first file. Code to select rank subset of plurality of conversations selects a subset of the conversations from search results stores information about the selected subset of conversations and provides a hyperlink between the first file and the selected subset of conversations. Selection of conversations may also include ranking the conversations based on the number of selection from the senders. In an embodiment responses from different senders can have different weight. Information related to the selected ranked subset of conversations is stored. In an embodiment the information related to the selected ranked subset of conversations is stored on a storage system for information related to selected ranked subset of conversations . In another embodiment the information related to the selected ranked subset of conversations is stored in memory system . In another embodiment the information related to the selected ranked subset of conversations is stored in the social network system. In an embodiment a hyperlink is created between the first file and the selected subset of conversations. The hyperlink influences the ranking of search results by the search engine when the first file is involved.

Network is a network and or combination of networks of devices that communicate with one another within an enterprise or on the Internet. User system is a user device connected to the network . User system selects a conversation from the social network system. The conversation is selected from a search result or from a listing of conversations. Social network system is a shared storage system. All users can access the social network system to read and in some cases contribute to the social network system. Sender system is a user system in the network. The sender system has read and write access to conversations in the social network system. A sender of a conversation may be a sender of the first message in the conversation sender of any message an expert in the subject matter or a team member.

An embodiment includes a programmable storage device such as memory readable by a machine such a processor system tangibly embodying a program of instructions when executed by the machine to perform a method of identifying conversations of a social network system having relevance to a first file. The method includes identifying a plurality of conversations within the social network system wherein the plurality of conversations each have a relationship with the first file wherein the social network system provides a platform for storing and sharing conversation and each conversation includes a conversation and associated information. The method further includes generating by a system server a list of inquiries based on the plurality of conversations providing by the system server the list of inquiries to at least one sender of the first file receiving from the at least one sender at least one response to the list of inquiries selecting a subset of the plurality of conversations based on the at least one response storing information related to the selected subset of the plurality of conversations for access if the first file is selected.

Although specific embodiments have been described and illustrated the described embodiments are not to be limited to the specific forms or arrangements of parts so described and illustrated.

