---

title: Estimating the spend capacity of consumer households
abstract: The spend capacity of a consumer typically increases as the number of consumers in the household increases, since the consumer can draw on the spending power of other consumers in the household. The size of wallet of the household is thus a better indicator of the consumer's spend capacity than an individual size of wallet. All consumers in a given household can be aggregated based on, for example, their address of record. Duplicate tradelines within each household are removed from consideration in a size of wallet estimate. A spend capacity is then estimated for each tradeline using calculations derived from a consumer behavior model. The spend capacities for all tradelines in the household are combined to determine a household size of wallet. Each consumer in the household is then tagged with the household size of wallet, rather than their individual size of wallet.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08401889&OS=08401889&RS=08401889
owner: American Express Travel Related Services Company, Inc.
number: 08401889
owner_city: New York
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120328
---
The present application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 611 699 filed Dec. 15 2006 and entitled ESTIMATING THE SPEND CAPACITY OF CONSUMER HOUSEHOLDS. The 699 Application is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 978 298 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 788 147 filed Oct. 29 2004 and patented Aug. 31 2010. All the aforementioned patents and applications are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety.

This disclosure generally relates to financial data processing and in particular it relates to customer profiling and consumer behavior analysis.

It is axiomatic that consumers will tend to spend more when they have greater purchasing power. The capability to accurately estimate a consumer s spend capacity could therefore allow a financial institution such as a credit company lender or any consumer services company to better target potential prospects and identify any opportunities to increase consumer transaction volumes without an undue increase in the risk of defaults. Attracting additional consumer spending in this manner in turn would increase such financial institution s revenues primarily in the form of an increase in transaction fees and interest payments received. Consequently accurate estimation of purchasing power is of paramount interest to many financial institutions and other consumer services companies.

The purchasing power of an individual consumer is often related to the total purchasing power of the consumer s household. However understanding spending at a household level has been a challenge for financial institutions because it is very difficult to group consumers by household. This is especially problematic when other individuals in the household do not maintain tradelines with the financial institution. Accordingly there is a need for a method and apparatus for identifying members of a household of a consumer and determining the size of wallet of the entire household.

The spend capacity of a consumer typically increases as the number of consumers in the household increases. This occurs because an individual consumer can draw on the spending power of other consumers in the household. Identifying these consumers and determining the size of wallet of their households is beneficial to a financial institution as it allows the financial institution to better target the consumers without increasing the risk of default by the consumers. in an exemplary method all individuals in a given household are aggregated based on for example their address of record. Duplicate tradelines within each household are removed from consideration in a size of wallet estimate. A spend capacity is then estimated for each tradeline using calculations derived from a consumer behavior model. The spend capacities for all tradelines in the household are combined to determine a household size of wallet. Each consumer in the household is then tagged with the household size of wallet rather than their individual size of wallet.

When consumer spending levels are reliably identified in this manner consumers may be categorized to more effectively manage the customer relationship and increase the profitability therefrom. For instance a financial institution can better identify customers who would most benefit from an offer for a new product or service or who would be most likely to increase their transaction volumes. High spending households can be targeted with the institution s best product offers and incentives which encourages spending by members of that household using the account held at the financial institution.

Further embodiments features and advantages of the present invention as well as the structure and operation of the various embodiments of the present invention are described in detail below with reference to the accompanying drawings.

The present invention will be described with reference to the accompanying drawings. The drawing in which an element first appears is typically indicated by the leftmost digit s in the corresponding reference number.

While specific configurations and arrangements are discussed it should be understood that this is done for illustrative purposes only. A person skilled in the pertinent art will recognize that other configurations and arrangements can he used without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention. It will be apparent to a person skilled in the pertinent art that this invention can also be employed in a variety of other applications.

The terms user end user consumer customer participant and or the plural form of these terms are used interchangeably throughout herein to refer to those persons or entities capable of accessing using being affected by and or benefiting from the tool that the present invention provides for determining a household size of wallet.

Furthermore the terms business or merchant may be used interchangeably with each other and shall mean any person entity distributor system software and or hardware that is a provider broker and or any other entity in the distribution chain of goods or services. For example a merchant may be a grocery store a retail store a travel agency a service provider an on line merchant or the like.

A transaction account as used herein refers to an account associated with an open account or a closed account system as described below . The transaction account may exist in a physical or non physical embodiment. For example a transaction account may be distributed in non physical embodiments such as an account number frequent flyer account telephone calling account or the like. Furthermore a physical embodiment of a transaction account may he distributed as a financial instrument.

A financial transaction instrument may be traditional plastic transaction cards titanium containing or other metal containing transaction cards clear and or translucent transaction cards foldable or otherwise unconventionally sized transaction cards radio frequency enabled transaction cards or other types of transaction cards such as credit charge debit pre paid or stored value cards or any other like financial transaction instrument. A financial transaction instrument may also have electronic functionality provided by a network of electronic circuitry that is printed or otherwise incorporated onto or within the transaction instrument and typically referred to as a smart card or be a fob having a transponder and an RFID reader.

With regard to use of a transaction account users may communicate with merchants in person e.g. at the box office telephonically or electronically e.g. from a user computer via the Internet . During the interaction the merchant may offer goods and or services to the user. The merchant may also offer the user the option of paying for the goods and or services using any number of available transaction accounts. Furthermore the transaction accounts may be used by the merchant as a form of identification of the user. The merchant may have a computing unit implemented in the form of a computer server although other implementations are possible.

In general transaction accounts may be used for transactions between the user and merchant through any suitable communication means such as for example a telephone network intranet the global public Internet a point of interaction device e.g. a point of sale POS device personal digital assistant PDA mobile telephone kiosk etc. online communications off line communications wireless communications and or the like.

A transaction account has a basic user who is the primary user associated with the account. A transaction account may also have a supplemental user who is given access to the account by the basic user. The supplemental user may possess a duplicate of the transaction instrument associated with the account.

An account account number or account code as used herein may include any device code number letter symbol digital certificate smart chip digital signal analog signal biometric or other identifier indicia suitably configured to allow a consumer to access interact with or communicate with a financial transaction system. The account number may optionally be located on or associated with any financial transaction instrument e.g. rewards charge credit debit prepaid telephone embossed smart magnetic stripe bar code transponder or radio frequency card .

Persons skilled in the relevant arts will understand the breadth of the terms used herein and that the exemplary descriptions provided are not intended to be limiting of the generally understood meanings attributed to the foregoing terms.

It is noted that references in the specification to one embodiment an embodiment an example embodiment etc. indicate that the embodiment described may include a particular feature structure or characteristic but every embodiment may not necessarily include the particular feature structure or characteristic. Moreover such phrases are not necessarily referring to the same embodiment. Further when a particular feature structure or characteristic is described in connection with an embodiment it would be within the knowledge of one skilled in the art to effect such feature structure or characteristic in connection with other embodiments whether or not explicitly described.

While specific configurations and arrangements are discussed it should be understood that this is done for illustrative purposes only. A person skilled in the pertinent art will recognize that other configurations and arrangements can be used without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention. It will be apparent to a person skilled in the pertinent art that this invention can also be employed in a variety of other applications.

As used herein the following terms shall have the following meanings. A trade or tradeline refers to a credit or charge vehicle issued to an individual customer by a credit grantor. Types of tradelines include for example and without limitation bank loans credit card accounts retail cards personal lines of credit and ear loans leases. For purposes here use of the term credit card shall be construed to include charge cards except as specifically noted. Tradeline data describes the customer s account status and activity including for example names of companies where the customer has accounts dates such accounts were opened credit limits types of accounts balances over a period of time and summary payment histories. Tradeline data is generally available for the vast majority of actual consumers. Tradeline data however does not include individual transaction data which is largely unavailable because of consumer privacy protections. Tradeline data may be used to determine both individual and aggregated consumer spending patterns as described herein.

Consumer panel data measures consumer spending patterns from information that is provided by typically millions of participating consumer panelists. Such consumer panel data is available through various consumer research companies such as comScore Networks Inc. of Reston Va. Consumer panel data may typically include individual consumer information such as credit risk scores credit card application data credit card purchase transaction data credit card statement views tradeline types balances credit limits purchases balance transfers cash advances payments made finance charges annual percentage rates and fees charged. Such individual information from consumer panel data however is limited to those consumers who have participated in the consumer panel and so such detailed data may not be available for all consumers.

Although the present invention is described as relating to individual consumers one of skill in the pertinent art s will recognize that it can also apply to small businesses and organizations without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention.

Technology advances have made it possible to store manipulate and model large amounts of time series data with minimal expenditure on equipment. As will now be described a financial institution may leverage these technological advances in conjunction with the types of consumer data presently available in the marketplace to more readily estimate the spend capacity of potential and actual customers. A reliable capability to assess the size of a consumer s wallet is introduced in which aggregate time series and raw tradeline data are used to model consumer behavior and attributes and identify categories of consumers based on aggregate behavior. The use of raw trade line time series data and modeled consumer behavior attributes including but not limited to consumer panel data and internal consumer data allows actual consumer spend behavior to be derived from point in time balance information.

In addition the advent of consumer panel data provided through internet channels provides continuous access to actual consumer spend information for model validation and refinement. Industry data including consumer panel information having consumer statement and individual transaction data may be used as inputs to the model and for subsequent verification and validation of its accuracy. The model is developed and refined using actual consumer information with the goals of improving the customer experience and increasing billings growth by identifying and leveraging increased consumer spend opportunities.

A credit provider or other financial institution may also make use of internal proprietary customer data retrieved from its stored internal financial records. Such internal data provides access to even more actual customer spending information and may be used in the development refinement and validation of aggregated consumer spending models as well as verification of the models applicability to existing individual customers on an ongoing basis.

While there has long been market place interest in understanding spend to align offers with consumers and assign credit line size the holistic approach of using a size of wallet calculation across customers lifecycles that is acquisitions through collections has not previously been provided. The various data sources outlined above provide the opportunity for unique model logic development and deployment and as described in more detail in the following various categories of consumers may be readily identified from aggregate and individual data. In certain embodiments of the processes disclosed herein the models may be used to identify specific types of consumers nominally labeled transactors and revolvers based on aggregate spending behavior and to then identify individual customers and prospects that fall into one of these categories. Consumers falling into these categories may then be offered commensurate purchasing incentives based on the model s estimate of consumer spending ability.

Referring now to B and wherein similar components of the present disclosure are referenced in like manner various embodiments of a method and system for estimating the purchasing ability of consumers will now be described in detail.

Turning now to there is depicted an exemplary computer network over which the transmission of the various types of consumer data as described herein may he accomplished using any of a variety of available computing components for processing such data in the manners described below. Such components may include an institution computer which may be a computer workstation or server such as those commonly manufactured by IBM and operated by a financial institution or the like. The institution computer in turn has appropriate internal hardware software processing memory and network communication components that enables it to perform the functions described here including storing both internally and externally obtained individual or aggregate consumer data in appropriate memory and processing the same according to the processes described herein using programming instructions provided in any of a variety of useful machine languages. Institution computer is described in further detail with respect to .

As shown in the institution computer includes one or more processors such as processor . The processor is connected to a communication infrastructure e.g. a communications bus cross over bar or network . Various software embodiments are described in terms of this exemplary computer system. After reading this description it will become apparent to a person skilled in the relevant art s how to implement the invention using other computer systems and or architectures.

Institution computer can include a display interface that forwards graphics text and other data from the communication infrastructure or from a frame buffer not shown for display on the display unit .

Institution computer also includes a main memory preferably random access memory RAM and may also include a secondary memory . The secondary memory may include for example a hard disk drive and or a removable storage drive representing a floppy disk drive a magnetic tape drive an optical disk drive etc. The removable storage drive reads from and or writes to a removable storage unit in a well known manner. Removable storage unit represents a floppy disk magnetic tape optical disk etc. which is read by and written to by removable storage drive . As will be appreciated the removable storage unit includes a computer usable storage medium having stored therein computer software and or data.

In alternative embodiments secondary memory may include other similar devices for allowing computer programs or other instructions to be loaded into institution computer . Such devices may include for example a removable storage unit and an interface . Examples of such may include a program cartridge and cartridge interface such as that found in video game devices a removable memory chip such as an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or programmable read only memory PROM and associated socket and other removable storage units and interfaces which allow software and data to be transferred from the removable storage unit to institution computer .

Institution computer may also include a communications interface . Communications interface allows software and data to be transferred between institution computer and external devices. Examples of communications interface may include a modem a network interface such as an Ethernet card a communications port a Personal Computer Memory Card International Association PCMCIA slot and card etc. Software and data transferred via communications interface are in the form of signals which may be electronic electromagnetic optical or other signals capable of being received by communications interface . These signals are provided to communications interface via a communications path e.g. channel . This channel carries signals and may be implemented using wire or cable fiber optics a telephone line a cellular link a radio frequency RF link and other communications channels.

In this document the terms computer program medium and computer usable medium are used to generally refer to media such as removable storage drive and a hard disk installed in hard disk drive . These computer program products provide software to institution computer . The invention is directed to such computer program products.

Computer programs also referred to as computer control logic are stored in main memory and or secondary memory . Computer programs may also be received via communications interface . Such computer programs when executed enable the institution computer to perform the features of the present invention as discussed herein. In particular the computer programs when executed enable the processor to perform the features of the present invention. Accordingly such computer programs represent controllers of the institution computer .

In an embodiment where the invention is implemented using software the software may be stored in a computer program product and loaded into institution computer using removable storage drive hard drive or communications interface . The control logic software when executed by the processor causes the processor to perform the functions of the invention as described herein.

In another embodiment the invention is implemented primarily in hardware using for example hardware components such as application specific integrated circuits ASICs . Implementation of the hardware state machine so as to perform the functions described herein will he apparent to persons skilled in the relevant art s .

In yet another embodiment the invention is implemented using a combination of both hardware and software.

The institution computer may in turn be in operative communication with any number of other internal or external computing devices including for example components and which may be computers or servers of similar or compatible functional configuration. These components may gather and provide aggregated and individual consumer data as described herein and transmit the same for processing and analysis by the institution computer . Such data transmissions may occur for example over the Internet or by any other known communications infrastructure such as a local area network a wide area network a wireless network a fiber optic network or any combination or interconnection of the same. Such communications may also be transmitted in an encrypted or otherwise secure format in any of a wide variety of known manners.

Each of the components may be operated by either common or independent entities in one exemplary embodiment which is not to be limiting to the scope of the present disclosure one or more such components may be operated by a provider of aggregate and individual consumer tradeline data an example of which includes services provided by Experian Information Solutions Inc. of Costa Mesa Calif. Experian . Tradeline level data preferably includes up to 24 months or more of balance history and credit attributes captured at the tradeline level including information about accounts as reported by various credit grantors which in turn may be used to derive a broad view of actual aggregated consumer behavioral spending patterns.

Alternatively or in addition thereto one or more of the components may likewise be operated by a provider of individual and aggregate consumer panel data such as commonly provided by comScore Networks Inc. of Reston Va. comScore . Consumer panel data provides more detailed and specific consumer spending information regarding millions of consumer panel participants who provide actual spend data to collectors of such data in exchange for various inducements. The data collected may include any one or more of credit risk scores online credit card application data online credit card purchase transaction data online credit card statement views credit trade type and credit issuer credit issuer code portfolio level statistics credit bureau reports demographic data account balances credit limits purchases balance transfers cash advances payment amounts finance charges annual percentage interest rates on accounts and fees charged all at an individual level for each of the participating panelists. In various embodiments this type of data is used for model development refinement and verification. This type of data is further advantageous over tradeline level data alone for such purposes since such detailed information is not provided at the tradeline level. While such detailed consumer panel data can be used alone to generate a model it may not be wholly accurate with respect to the remaining marketplace of consumers at large without further refinement. Consumer panel data may also be used to generate aggregate consumer data for model derivation and development.

Additionally another source of inputs to the model may be internal spend and payment history of the institution s own customers. From such internal data detailed information at the level of specificity as the consumer panel data may be obtained and used for model development refinement and validation including the categorization of consumers based on identified transactor and revolver behaviors.

Turning now to there is depicted a flowchart of an exemplary process for modeling aggregate consumer behavior in accordance with the present disclosure. The process commences at step wherein individual and aggregate consumer data including time series tradeline data consumer panel data and internal customer financial data is obtained from any of the data sources described previously as inputs for consumer behavior models. In certain embodiments the individual and aggregate consumer data may be provided in a variety of different data formats or structures and consolidated to a single useful format or structure for processing.

Next at step the individual and aggregate consumer data is analyzed to determine consumer spending behavior patterns. One of ordinary skill in the art will readily appreciate that the models may include formulas that mathematically describe the spending behavior of consumers. The particular formulas derived will therefore highly depend on the values resulting from customer data used for derivation as will be readily appreciated. However by way of example only and based on the data provided consumer behavior may he modeled by first dividing consumers into categories that may be based on account balance levels demographic profiles household income levels or any other desired categories. For each of these categories in turn historical account balance and transaction information for each of the consumers may he tracked over a previous period of time such as one to two years. Algorithms may then be employed to determine formulaic descriptions of the distribution of aggregate consumer information over the course of that period of time for the population of consumers examined using any of a variety of known mathematical techniques. These formulas in turn may be used to derive or generate one or more models step for each of the categories of consumers using any of a variety of available trend analysis algorithms. The models may yield the following types of aggregated consumer information for each category average balances maximum balances standard deviation of balances percentage of balances that change by a threshold amount and the like.

Finally at step the derived models may be validated and periodically refined using internal customer data and consumer panel data from sources such as comScore. In various embodiments the model may be validated and refined over time based on additional aggregated and individual consumer data as it is continuously received by an institution computer over the network . Actual customer transaction level information and detailed consumer information panel data may be calculated and used to compare actual consumer spend amounts for individual consumers defined for each month as the difference between the sum of debits to the account and any balance transfers into the account and the spend levels estimated for such consumers using the process above. If a large error is demonstrated between actual and estimated amounts the models and the formulas used may be manually or automatically refined so that the error is reduced. This allows for a flexible model that has the capability to adapt to actual aggregated spending behavior as it fluctuates over time.

As shown in the diagram of a population of consumers for which individual and or aggregated data has been provided may be divided first into two general categories for analysis for example those that are current on their credit accounts representing 1.72 million consumers in the exemplary data sample size of 1.78 million consumers and those that are delinquent representing 0.06 million of such consumers . In one embodiment delinquent consumers may be discarded from the populations being modeled.

In further embodiments the population of current consumers is then subdivided into a plurality of further categories based on the amount of balance information available and the balance activity of such available data. In the example shown in the diagram the amount of balance information available is represented by string of 0 and characters. Each character represents one month of available data with the rightmost character representing the most current months and the leftmost character representing the earliest month for which data is available. In the example provided in a string of six characters is provided representing the six most recent months of data for each category. The character represents a month in which a credit account balance of the consumer has increased. The 0 character may represent months where the account balance is zero. The character represents months for which balance data is unavailable. Also provided the diagram is number of consumers fallen to each category and the percentage of the consumer population they represent in that sample.

In further embodiments only certain categories of consumers may be selected for modeling behavior. The selection may be based on those categories that demonstrate increased spend on their credit balances over time. However it should be readily appreciated that other categories can be used. shows the example of two categories of selected consumers for modeling in bold. These groups show the availability of at least the three most recent months of balance data and that the balances increased in each of those months.

Turning now to therein is depicted an exemplary diagram showing sub categorization of the two categories of in bold that are selected for modeling. In the embodiment shown the sub categories may include consumers having a most recent credit balance less than 400 consumers having a most recent credit balance between 400 and 1600 consumers having a most recent credit balance between 1600 and 5000 consumers whose most recent credit balance is less than the balance of for example three months ago consumers whose maximum credit balance increase over for example the last twelve months divided by the second highest maximum balance increase over the same period is less than 2 and consumers whose maximum credit balance increase over the last twelve months divided by the second highest maximum balance increase is greater than 2. It should be readily appreciated that other subcategories can be used. Each of these sub categories is defined by their last month balance level. The number of consumers from the sample population in millions and the percentage of the population for each category are also shown in .

There may be a certain balance threshold established wherein if a consumer s account balance is too high their behavior may not be modeled since such consumers are less likely to have sufficient spending ability. Alternatively or in addition thereto consumers having balances above such threshold may be sub categorized yet again rather than completely discarded from the sample. In the example shown in the threshold value may be 5000 and only those having particular historical balance activity may be selected i.e. those consumers whose present balance is less than their balance three months earlier or whose maximum balance increase in the examined period meets certain parameters. Other threshold values may also be used and may be dependent on the individual and aggregated consumer data provided.

As described in the foregoing the models generated in the process may be derived validated and refined using tradeline and consumer panel data. An example of tradeline data from Experian and consumer panel data from comScore are represented in . Each row of the data represents the record of one consumer and thousands of such records may be provided at a time. The statement shows the point in time balance of consumers accounts for three successive months Balance 1 Balance 2 and Balance 3 . The data shows each consumer s purchase volume last payment amount previous balance amount and current balance. Such information may be obtained for example by page scraping the data in any of a variety of known manners using appropriate application programming interfaces from an Internet web site or network address at which the data is displayed. Furthermore the data and may he matched by consumer identity and combined by one of the data providers or another third party independent of the financial institution. Validation of the models using the combined data and may then be performed and such validation may be independent of consumer identity.

Turning now to therein is depicted an exemplary process for estimating the size of an individual consumer s spending wallet. Upon completion of the modeling of the consumer categories above the process commences with the selection of individual consumers or prospects to be examined step . An appropriate model derived during the process will then be applied to the presently available consumer tradeline information in the following manner to determine based on the results of application of the derived models an estimate of a consumer s size of wallet. Each consumer of interest may be selected based on their falling into one of the categories selected for modeling described above or may be selected using any of a variety of criteria.

The process continues to step where for a selected consumer a paydown percentage over a previous period of time is estimated for each of the consumer s credit accounts. In one embodiment the paydown percentage is estimated over the previous three month period of time based on available tradeline data and may be calculated according to the following formula Pay down The sum of the last three months payments from the account The sum of three month balances for the account based on tradeline data . The paydown percentage may be set to for example 2 for any consumer exhibiting less than a 5 paydown percentage and may be set to 100 if greater than 80 as a simplified manner for estimating consumer spending behaviors on either end of the paydown percentage scale.

Consumers that exhibit less than a 50 paydown during this period may be categorized as revolvers while consumers that exhibit a 50 paydown or greater may be categorized as transactors. These categorizations may be used to initially determine what if any purchasing incentives may be available to the consumer as described later below.

The process then continues to step where balance transfers for a previous period of time are identified from the available tradeline data for the consumer. The identification of balance transfers are essential since although tradeline data may reflect a higher balance on a credit account over time such higher balance may simply be the result of a transfer of a balance into the account and are thus not indicative of a true increase in the consumer s spending it is difficult to confirm balance transfers based on tradeline data since the information available is not provided on a transaction level basis. In addition there are typically lags or absences of reporting of such values on tradeline reports.

Nonetheless marketplace analysis using confirmed consumer panel and internal customer financial records has revealed reliable ways in which balance transfers into an account may be identified from imperfect individual tradeline data alone. Three exemplary reliable methods for identifying balance transfers from credit accounts each which is based in part on actual consumer data sampled are as follows. It should be readily apparent that these formulas in this form are not necessary for all embodiments of the present process and may vary based on the consumer data used to derive them.

A first rule identifies a balance transfer for a given consumer s credit account as follows. The month having the largest balance increase in the tradeline data and which satisfies the following conditions may be identified as a month in which a balance transfer has occurred 

A second rule identifies a balance transfer for a given consumer s credit account in any month where the balance is above twelve times the previous month s balance and the next month s balance differs by no more than 20 .

The process then continues to step where consumer spend on each credit account is estimated over the next for example three month period. In estimating consumer spend any spending for a month in which a balance transfer has been identified from individual tradeline data above is set to zero for purposes of estimating the size of the consumer s spending wallet reflecting the supposition that no real spending has occurred on that account. The estimated spend for each of the three previous months may then be calculated as follows Estimated spend the current balance the previous month s balance the previous month s balance the estimated pay down from step above . The exact form of the formula selected may be based on the category in which the consumer is identified from the model applied and the formula is then computed iteratively for each of the three months of the first period of consumer spend.

Next at step of the process the estimated spend is then extended over for example the previous three quarterly or three month periods providing a most recent year of estimated spend for the consumer.

Finally at step this in turn may be used to generate a plurality of final outputs for each consumer account step . These may be provided in an output file that may include a portion or all of the following exemplary information based on the calculations above and information available from individual tradeline data i size of previous twelve month spending wallet ii size of spending wallet for each of the last four quarters iii total number of revolving cards revolving balance and average pay down percentage for each iv total number of transacting cards and transacting balances for each v the number of balance transfers and total estimated amount thereof vi maximum revolving balance amounts and associated credit limits and vii maximum transacting balance and associated credit limit.

After step the process ends with respect to the examined consumer. It should be readily appreciated that the process may be repeated for any number of current customers or consumer prospects.

Referring now to therein is depicted illustrative diagrams of how such estimated spending is calculated in a rolling manner across each previous three month quarterly period. In there is depicted a first three month period i.e. the most recent previous quarter on a timeline . As well there is depicted a first twelve month period on a timeline representing the last twenty one months of point in time account balance information available from individual tradeline data for the consumer s account. Each month s balance for the account is designated as B . B1 B12 represent actual account balance information available over the past twelve months for the consumer. B13 B21 represent consumer balances over consecutive preceding months.

In accordance with the diagram spending in each of the three months of the first quarter is calculated based on the balance values B1 B12 the category of the consumer based on consumer spending models generated in the process and the formulas used in steps and .

Turning now to there is shown a diagram illustrating the balance information used for estimating spending in a second previous quarter using a second twelve month period of balance information . Spending in each of these three months of the second previous quarter is based on known balance information B4 B15.

Turning now to there is shown a diagram illustrating the balance information used for estimating spending in a third successive quarter using a third twelve month period of balance information . Spending in each of these three months of the third previous quarter is based on known balance information B7 B18.

Turning now to there is shown a diagram illustrating the balance information used for estimating spending in a fourth previous quarter using a fourth twelve month period of balance information . Spending in each of these three months of the fourth previous quarter is based on balance information B10 B21.

It should be readily appreciated that as the rolling calculations proceed the consumer s category may change based on the outputs that result and therefore different formula corresponding to the new category may be applied to the consumer for different periods of time. The rolling manner described above maximizes the known data used for estimating consumer spend in a previous twelve month period .

Based on the final output generated for the customer commensurate purchasing incentives may be identified and provided to the consumer for example in anticipation of an increase in the consumer s purchasing ability as projected by the output file. In such cases consumers of good standing who are categorized as transactors with a projected increase in purchasing ability may be offered a lower financing rate on purchases made during the period of expected increase in their purchasing ability or may be offered a discount or rebate for transactions with selected merchants during that time.

In another example and in the case where a consumer is a revolver such consumer with a projected increase in purchasing ability may be offered a lower annual percentage rate on balances maintained on their credit account.

Other like promotions and enhancements to consumers experiences are well known and may be used within the processes disclosed herein.

Various statistics for the accuracy of the processes and are provided in for which a consumer sample was analyzed by the process and validated using months of historic actual spend data. The table of shows the number of consumers having a balance of 5000 or more for whom the estimated paydown percentage calculated in step above matched the actual paydown percentage as determined from internal transaction data and external consumer panel data .

The table of shows the number of consumers having a balance of 5000 or more who were expected to be transactors or revolvers and who actually turned out to be transactors and revolvers based on actual spend data. As can be seen the number of expected revolvers who turned out to be actual revolvers 80539 was many times greater than the number of expected revolvers who turned out to be transactors 1090 . Likewise the number of expected and actual transactors outnumbered by nearly four to one the number of expected transactors that turned out to be revolvers.

The table of shows the number of estimated versus actual instances in the consumer sample of when there occurred a balance transfer into an account. For instance in the period sampled there were 148 326 instances where no balance transfers were identified in step above and for which a comparison of actual consumer data showed there were in fact no balance transfers in. This compares to only 9 534 instances where no balance transfers were identified in step but there were in fact actual balance transfers.

The table of shows the accuracy of estimated spending in steps versus actual spending for consumers with account balances at the time this sample testing was performed greater than 5000. As can be seen the estimated spending at each spending level most closely matched the same actual spending level than for any other spending level in nearly all instances.

The table of shows the accuracy of estimated spending in steps versus actual spending for consumers having most recent account balances between 1600 and 5000. As can be readily seen the estimated spending at each spending level most closely matched the same actual spending level than for any other spending level in all instances.

The table of shows the accuracy of estimated spending versus actual spending for all consumers in the sample. As can be readily seen the estimated spending at each spending level most closely matched the same actual spending level than for any other actual spending level in all instances.

The table of shows the rank order of estimated versus actual spending for all consumers in the sample. This table readily shows that the number of consumers expected to be in the bottom 10 of spending most closely matched the actual number of consumers in that category by 827 716 to 22 721. The table further shows that the number of consumers expected to be in the top 10 of spenders most closely matched the number of consumers who were actually in the top 10 by 71 773 to 22 721.

The table of shows estimated versus actual annual spending for all consumers in the sample over the most recent year of available data. As can he readily seen the expected number of consumers at each spending level most closely matched the same actual spending level than any other level in all instances.

Finally the table of shows the rank order of estimated versus actual total annual spending for all the consumers over the most recent year of available data. Again the number of expected consumers in each rank most closely matched the actual rank than any other rank.

Prospective customer populations used for modeling and or later evaluation may he provided from any of a plurality of available marketing groups or may be culled from credit bureau data targeted advertising campaigns or the like. Testing and analysis may be continuously performed to identify the optimal placement and required frequency of such sources for using the size of spending wallet calculations. The processes described herein may also be used to develop models for predicting a size of wallet for an individual consumer.

Institutions adopting the processes disclosed herein may expect to more readily and profitably identify opportunities for prospect and customer offerings which in turn provides enhanced experiences across all parts of a customer s lifecycle. In the case of a credit provider accurate identification of spend opportunities allows for rapid provisioning of card member offerings to increase spend that in turn results in increased transaction fees interest charges and the like. The careful selection of customers to receive such offerings reduces the incidence of fraud that may occur in less disciplined card member incentive programs. This in turn reduces overall operating expenses for institutions.

In addition to determining the size of wallet of a single consumer the above process may also be used in determining the size of wallet of a given household. Determining the size of wallet of a household allows a financial institution to more accurately estimate the spend opportunity associated with an individual than would be estimated from the individual s size of wallet alone. For example two example consumers may have the same individual size of wallet However one consumer is single and lives alone but the other consumer is married to a spouse whose size of wallet is twice as big as the second consumer. The second consumer thus has more spending potential than the first even though they look very similar when standing alone.

In step once individual consumers are grouped into a household tradelines held by one or more of the consumers in the household are identified and associated with the household. The tradelines may be determined using for example and without limitation credit bureau data. and internal records of the financial institution.

In step duplicate tradelines are identified and removed from association with the household such that only unique trades remain associated with the household. Duplicates occur when the basic user of an account shares a household with a supplemental user of the same account. To identify duplicate tradelines the history is obtained for every tradeline associated with the household. The history may be limited to a given timeframe such as the previous 24 months. This history may include for example and without limitation account balance and transaction information. The histories of the tradelines are then compared to determine if any tradeline in the household has the same historical performance as another tradeline in the household. If two tradelines are identified as having the same historical performance one of the tradelines is determined to be a duplicate and is not considered in the household size of wallet calculation.

In step an estimated spend capacity for each of the remaining unique tradelines is calculated based on the balance of the tradeline. The estimated spend capacity may be calculated for example as described with respect to method above.

In step the estimated spend capacities of the unique tradelines in the household are summed. The resulting combined spend capacity is output as the household size of wallet. The household size of wallet can then be associated with each individual consumer in the household.

Once individual consumers are tagged with or otherwise identified by their household. size of wallet a financial institution can more accurately categorize the consumers and provide the consumers with more relevant offers. For example based on the household size of wallet calculated for an existing customer purchasing incentives may be identified and provided to the existing customer to encourage spend on an existing account. In another example prospective customers may be targeted based on their own specific household sizes of wallet and or spend characteristics of other consumers in their household. In this example a prospective cardholder whose household size of wallet is significantly higher than his individual size of wallet is expected to have high spend and a high response rate to product offers. Similarly a prospective cardholder that lives in the same household as a high spend low risk card holder is expected to be high spend and low risk as well. Such targeting encourages spend by prospective cardholders on new accounts.

Categorizing consumers by household type reveals trends which can be used to identify low risk prospects without completing size of wallet analyses for each specific prospect. The household size and mix of consumers therein defines a household type. is a chart identifying various household types . Each household type has a particular size and a particular mix . Size corresponds to the number of consumers in the household. Mix corresponds to the number of basic cardholders supplemental cardholders and prospective cardholders in the household. Each household type makes up a percentage of all households.

By identifying the types of households having the largest wallets a financial institution can target consumers in those household types with new product offers and or incentives on existing products to encourage spend with the financial institution by the consumers. For example the financial institution can target prospective cardholders of all type 2A households with an offer for a new card product that suits their needs since those cardholders are the most likely to accept such an offer while maintaining a low risk of default.

Once the size of wallet has been determined for a given household the share of the household wallet held by a particular financial institution can also be determined. The share of wallet is the percentage of the total size of wallet that is associated with the financial institution and can typically be determined for example from the internal records of the financial institution. By identifying households where the financial institution has only a small share of the household size of wallet the financial institution can determine which households offer the best prospects for spending growth. This is referred to as the spend opportunity. Households having a large spend opportunity can then be targeted for product offers and incentives to increase spend by the consumer with the financial institution. For example for a financial institution having the exemplary share of household wallet distribution illustrated in the greatest spend opportunity is available in households having one basic cardholder and one supplemental cardholder type 2B and households having one basic cardholder and one prospective cardholder type 2C .

While various embodiments of the present invention have been described above it should be understood that they have been presented by way of example and not limitation. It will he apparent to persons skilled in the relevant art s that various changes in form and detail can be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention. Thus the present invention should not be limited by any of the above described exemplary embodiments but should be defined only in accordance with the following claims and their equivalents.

In addition it should be understood that the figures and screen shots illustrated in the attachments which highlight the functionality and advantages of the present invention are presented for example purposes only. The architecture of the present invention is sufficiently flexible and configurable such that it may be utilized and navigated in ways other than that shown in the accompanying figures.

Further the purpose of the foregoing Abstract is to enable the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and the public generally and especially the scientists engineers and practitioners in the art who are not familiar with patent or legal terms or phraseology to determine quickly from a cursory inspection the nature and essence of the technical disclosure of the application. The Abstract is not intended to be limiting as to the scope of the present invention in any way.

