---

title: Systems and methods for an augmented experience of products and marketing materials using barcodes
abstract: Systems and methods for augmenting a user experience using a barcode. In an embodiment, the system and methods comprises receiving a first request for content associated with a barcode from a user. A response is sent which provides content for creating a personalized message. The user may then interact with a message creation application to create a personalized message. Subsequently, a second request for content associated with the barcode may be received. In response to this request, the personalized message, instead of the content for creating the personalized message, may be provided.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08584931&OS=08584931&RS=08584931
owner: 
number: 08584931
owner_city: Irwindale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120117
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent App. No. 61 433 130 filed on Jan. 14 2011 titled Systems and Methods for Augmented Reality Experience for Marketing Products and Point of Interest and Sales the entirety of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference.

The embodiments described herein are related to barcodes and barcode scanner applications for user devices e.g. smart phones tablets etc. that enable users to access features applications and tools associated with the barcodes using their user devices.

In an embodiment a system for augmenting a user experience using a barcode is disclosed. The system may comprise at least one hardware processor and at least one executable software module. The at least one executable software module may be configured to when executed by the at least one hardware processor receive a first request for content associated with a barcode respond to the first request by providing content for creating a personalized message receiving a personalized message receive a second request for content associated with the barcode and respond to the second request by providing the personalized message.

In an embodiment a method is provided for augmenting a user experience using a barcode is disclosed. The method may comprise receiving a first request for content associated with a barcode responding to the first request by providing content for creating a personalized message receiving a personalized message receiving a second request for content associated with the barcode and responding to the second request by providing the personalized message.

In another embodiment a system for tracking user interactions with barcodes is provided. The system comprises at least one hardware processor at least one database and at least one executable software module. The at least one executable software module may be configured to when executed by the at least one hardware processor receive a first request from a user the first request comprising a user identifier and data from a first barcode store a first record of the first request in the at least one database the first record comprising the user identifier receive a second request from the user wherein the second request comprises the user identifier and data from a second barcode store a second record of the second request in the at least one database the second record comprising the user identifier and identify an association between the first record and the second record based on the user identifier.

After reading this description it will become apparent to one skilled in the art how to implement the embodiments described herein as well as various alternative embodiments and alternative applications. The following description sets forth numerous specific details such as examples of specific systems components and methods in order to provide a good understanding of the numerous disclosed embodiments. It will be apparent to one skilled in the art however that at least some embodiments may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known components or methods are not described in detail or are presented in simple block diagram format in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the described embodiments. Particular implementations may vary from these exemplary details and still be within the spirit and scope of the embodiments described.

Described herein are systems and methods for a barcode application and or scanner which may reside on a user device and enable a user of the user device to read and otherwise interact with one or more barcodes. The barcodes may be one dimensional 1D two dimensional 2D and or three dimensional 3D barcodes and may be open source or proprietary. The application may enable the user to access features applications and tools associated with the barcodes.

Referring to a block diagram is shown of a collection of computer systems which may interact with each other by way of an electronic connection such as a network or direct connection. In an embodiment a network e.g. the Internet local area network wide area network virtual private network etc. provides the connection between the devices in . Each of the blocks shown in represents a computer system such as a server a personal computer mobile device e.g. smart phone tablet PC or other device capable of communicating over an electronic connection or a collection of such devices and are generally referred to herein as devices.

User device generally represents a device in the possession or control of a user. The user device can be any network enabled device. In general the user device is a machine e.g. smart phone tablet device which may comprise hardware and or software with the ability to communicate with one or more of the other computer systems over a network as depicted in . For example in one embodiment the user device is a personal computer with a network connection such as an Internet connection. The user device may also be a wireless device such as a mobile telephone or a personal digital assistant with access to a wireless network. User device can be the same or a different type of device as user device . Device represents a device e.g. a Web server that hosts and or serves content such as a website.

As mentioned above user devices and may be any type of communications or computing device e.g. a cellular phone smart phone or other mobile communication device tablet device such as an iPad digital media player or other audio or audio video player personal digital assistant etc. . User device or may be a smart phone which is a combination mobile telephone and handheld computer having personal digital assistant PDA functionality e.g. iPhone iPad Blackberry etc. . The teachings herein can be applied to other mobile computing devices e.g. an iPad or other tablet computer a laptop computer etc. or other electronic devices e.g. a desktop personal computer an iPod a digital camera etc. . PDA functionality can comprise one or more of personal information management database functions word processing spreadsheets voice memo recording location based services device backup and lock media playing Internet browsing etc. Devices and may be further configured to receive and operate additional applications provided to devices and after manufacture e.g. via wired or wireless download Secure Digital card etc.

Devices and may be handheld computers e.g. a computer small enough to be carried in a typical front pocket found in a pair of pants or other similar pocket comprising such devices as typical mobile telephones and PDAs. In alternative embodiments the teachings herein may extend to laptop computers tablet PCs desktop PCS and other electronic devices with the functionality shown in .

In one embodiment device represents a content server for providing content associated with barcodes to user devices and . For example user devices and may utilize an application residing on the user devices and to scan and read a barcode. The application may then use information embedded within the barcode to access content server and or send information embedded within the barcode to content server . In response device may provide or serve web pages which can be visited by users and used by users to interact with the system as will be described in more detail below.

According to one aspect block of represents an application computer system or device which provides the back end functionality related to barcode content for the content server . Application may reside on content server or be otherwise communicatively connected to content server . Of course other configurations of the computer systems and applications can also be implemented. For instance in some embodiments the barcode content application is located directly on user devices and as a mobile application. In such embodiments the barcode content application may be configured to communicate with content server over network .

Application is in communication with a database . Database allows application to store necessary information that application may need to access in order to perform the back end functionality. In one example application supports a website which markets various products e.g. Starbucks Subway gifts electronics etc. to users. The application may provide various functions such as barcode generation barcode conversion content creation and or selection content attachment communication or transfer of information associated with barcodes barcode tracking and the like.

A user may scan a barcode as shown for example in and . When a user scans or takes a picture of a barcode e.g. a QR barcode from a product that the user has purchased on his or her user device an application on the user device translates the barcode image into another form of data which was previously encoded or embedded in the barcode.

In an embodiment this data which is translated from the barcode may take the form of a character string comprising letters numbers and other characters. For example the character string may comprise a Uniform Resource Locator URL which identifies the address of a resource on the Internet. The character string may further comprise a query string comprising one or more parameters for instance to be used in conjunction with the URL.

Once the barcode has been converted into a resource indicator the client application residing on user device may retrieve the identified resource. For example in an embodiment where the resource indicator comprises a URL perhaps with one or more parameters specified in a query string the client application will retrieve a webpage identified by the URL. The webpage may be retrieved from a content server via network . Alternatively the client application may cause a browser application on user device to retrieve the webpage identified by the URL.

With reference to according to one embodiment the retrieved webpage comprises a user interface which permits a user of user device to construct a personalized message for example by interacting with a create message builder module. The user is able to create a personalized and in some embodiments interactive message to be associated with the barcode. For instance the user may upload an image or video and or input a personalized text message. The user may also choose other attributes of the message such as layout background images colors themes and the like as well as a delivery method e.g. call the sender text the sender mail a card to the sender . Once the user has created the message he or she may be permitted to preview the message as well as to edit or publish the message for an intended recipient e.g. another user . The message may be implemented as webpage e.g. using Hypertext Markup Language HTML . Attachment module may attach user specified data e.g. input or uploaded personalized and or interactive data to the electronic message. For example attachment module may associate the user specified data with a predetermined template stored on content server or another device. The webpage may be constructed at publication or dynamically when viewed using the template and the user specified data e.g. by the decoding module .

In an embodiment conversion module may associate a barcode e.g. the URL and or other data embedded in the barcode with new or different content upon the completion of a user interaction. For instance continuing with the above example the URL embedded in the barcode was initially associated with a webpage comprising a user interface for creating a personalized and or interactive message. Once a user has created and published the message utilizing the user interface the conversion module may then associate the URL embedded in the barcode with the published or finalized message. Thus the next time a user e.g. the recipient scans the barcode the client application may retrieve a webpage which now displays the published personalized and or interactive message instead of the user interface for constructing the message.

The publishing of the message may be implemented by communication transfer module . In some embodiments once the message is published any subsequent scans of the barcode will only retrieve the final message. This may be beneficial for gifts for holidays or any other occasions to create an interactive product. For instance the barcode may be placed on a product or product packaging e.g. boxes dvds game case wrapping for flowers etc. . A gift giver could purchase the product and scan the barcode to retrieve a webpage for creating a personalized message. The gift giver could then create the personalized message using a variety of backgrounds images colors layouts and the like and finalize the message by publishing it. In some embodiments the user e.g. the gift giver or sender is allowed to edit the message up to three times prior to the message becoming final or finally published i.e. no longer editable .

The gift giver could then give the product which includes the barcode e.g. on the product itself or on the product s packaging to the recipient of the gift. The recipient could scan the barcode using a client application on his or her user device. The client application may work in the same fashion as when the barcode was first scanned e.g. retrieving a webpage at the specified URL . However this time since the message has been published the content server will return a webpage comprising the finalized message rather than the webpage for creating the message. In some embodiments after the recipient scans the barcode associated with the message the decoding module dynamically constructs the message and provides the data to the recipient in the form of a webpage or image.

While the above functionality has been described with reference to a user or gift giver it should be appreciated that a user may include a major corporation such as Starbucks or Subway that wishes to include promotional materials e.g. coupons with their products e.g. on product packaging such as cups or disposable wrappers . In such embodiments the message may be a coupon which may or may not be personalized and or interactive . Thus when a recipient of the corporation s product scans the barcode on their product e.g. coffee cup or sandwich wrapper using the client application on their user device the user device is directed via a URL embedded in the barcode to a specific website e.g. Starbucks.com Subway.com comprising the coupon.

The content may also comprise additional information related to the product associated with the barcode. For instance as shown in the product may be a baseball card comprising information related to a baseball player. A barcode may be printed on the card and associated with additional information about the player. A user may scan the barcode and be directed by the client application to a website comprising interactive content related to the player or the player s team or sport.

The systems and methods described herein allow users to create matrix barcodes for marketing campaigns product information product distribution and point of purchase or usage. In accordance with some embodiments the barcode content application can track all types of information about the interactions defined by the campaign. This information may include but is not limited to the time of scan the location of the scan e.g. longitude and latitude or other geographic identifier phone number or other user or device identifier etc. Due to privacy concerns in an embodiment the client application or barcode content application may not collect personally identifiable information PII or access the subscriber identification module SIM card of user devices and .

In some embodiments the matrix barcodes are linked e.g. via a smart phone tablet PC or other user device to an HTML5 mobile webpage e.g. served and or hosted by content server . As shown in and the system may allow users to save and share contacts or reminders view videos in multiple formats play audio click to call a user click to text a user e.g. using SMS MMS . The system may also collect data e.g. email addresses information for sweepstakes or promotions and include an application programming interface API for content social networking applications map applications online purchase and billing applications online coupons daily deals etc.

With reference to a user may scan a barcode on the packaging of a product using a client application on a device of the user. The client application will decode or translate the barcode into a URL and either retrieve or caused to be retrieved a webpage comprise one or more offers. For instance as shown in the user may be offered an opportunity to join a loyalty program associated with the product or the retailer producer or manufacturer of the product. In this case the user may be prompted to input personal or registration information such as the user s name email and password. The user may also be prompted to invite an acquaintance to join the program or to send a coupon or some other message to the acquaintance for example by inputting the acquaintance s email address.

In some embodiments the barcode generated by the system is unique such as would desirable in the labeling of multiple products. For example the application may include a random number generator which is applied to create unique matrix barcodes. The unique barcodes can be used to track the distribution of products in specific regions. For example the application can detect the location or region where each unique barcode is scanned. Alternatively or additionally a random number generator can be used to select winners of sweepstakes and promotions. For instance as barcodes are scanned and the data embedded in the barcodes transmitted to application a random number generator can be used to select winning barcodes.

In some embodiments a client application on the user devices and may comprise a RFID detector e.g. nano or standard . The client application may automatically detect an RFID chip placed on a poster product store or the like for example when the user is in the vicinity or area of the RFID chip. The client application may automatically or after prompting and receiving authorization from the user retrieve information related to the RFID chip. For instance the RFID chip may transmit information or data similar to the data embedded in barcodes which may be used to retrieve information e.g. via the Internet .

In some embodiments the application may track and report events. These events may include but are not limited to barcode generation barcode scanning interactions downloads RFID detection or response etc. Information gathered for these events may include date time and location. The application may include an API to tie into other reporting systems for clients agencies etc. For instance the application may interface with a mapping application to generate reports which include maps with markers to show clusters of events users. Such a report may aid in determining the best target regions or demographics for a product.

With reference to a high level diagram illustrating various matrix barcode correlations from products to marketing initiatives is shown. illustrates how barcodes on various marketing material and products can be used to gather various information and provide various feedback and content as well as how information related to the scans and the user scan be gathered analyzed correlated and reported by the server associated with application . For example the system e.g. application may generate a first matrix barcode e.g. Quick Response QR code 2D code etc. which may be placed on a digital or traditional advertisement e.g. newspaper magazine outdoor television Internet . A user may scan the first matrix barcode using a client application on a user device to capture an image of the barcode as it appears on the advertisement. The client application or other application e.g. browser may then interact with e.g. send a request to content server or another system via the network e.g. the Internet . This interaction may be recorded or otherwise tracked by content server or other system. In this manner the first matrix barcode may be tracked e.g. by application as part of an advertising campaign in a reporting system.

A second matrix barcode may be located on the actual products that are associated with the advertising initiatives which involve the advertisements comprising the first matrix barcode. A user may scan this second matrix barcode that was generated by the system again using the client application of a user device. The client application or other application may then interact with content server or another system and this interaction may be recorded or otherwise tracked by the system.

In some embodiments the system is able to correlate the interactions with marketing material e.g. from the first matrix barcode information to interactions with the product e.g. from the second matrix barcode information including purchases of the product and or interactions with the product or product s packaging. For example when a user scans a barcode the client application or other application in addition to sending a request e.g. comprising the data embedded within the scanned barcode to content server or other system may also send an identifier of the user. In order to protect the privacy of the users user identifiers can be generated for each user so as to be anonymous and contain no personal identification information. In this manner each recorded interaction may also be associated with a user identifier and the system may determine which interactions are associated with a single user by identifying those interactions that are associated with identical user identifiers.

In an embodiment the system e.g. application can determine that a user has purchased a product by identifying that a scanned barcode was placed inside the product or product packaging. This information can be embedded within the barcode e.g. a URL which is dedicated to receiving messages comprising purchase interactions can be encoded in the barcode or otherwise associated with the barcode e.g. as a row in a database . Since the barcode was placed inside the product or product packaging it can be assumed that a user who has scanned the product has purchased and opened the product.

Using the systems and methods described herein a user can create a smart barcode that can then be used to provide the services and features described herein. The smart barcode can then be embedded in advertising or marketing material including print materials online materials news papers magazines and the like as well as placed on products or product packaging. A barcode scanner can then be used to scan the smart barcode. The barcode scanner can be a generic scanner or it can also be branded by the user. For example if the user is a large company with a lot of products the user can brand their own barcode scanner application. For example Starbucks or Puma may have their own barcode scanner applications.

The barcode scanner application may be downloaded as an application e.g. onto a cell phone smart phone tablet device or any device with a digital camera and an Internet connection. For example are screen shots of a smart phone that uses a generic smart barcode scanner. As illustrated on the right hand side of when the user activates the scanner the camera function is launched and the user can be instructed to center the barcode e.g. from a product or in advertisement within the view finder for the camera. The user can then take a picture of the smart barcode as illustrated in .

Once the user captures the image the data embedded within the barcode can be decoded by barcode scanner application or other client application and transmitted to barcode content application where the data can be processed tracked and or stored. For example the data can be used to recognize and associate the barcode with the correct company or source e.g. Starbucks or Puma . Application may also perform several steps associated with the barcode and or as dictated by the source. For example application can store the time that the barcode was scanned identifying data e.g. a cell phone number or other user or user device identifier and or a location of the user or user device e.g. using GPS data provided by or acquired from the user device . Application may also determine and or store the type of material from which the barcode was scanned e.g. advertisement product packaging etc. .

A different barcode may be created for each media type or outlet. In other words one barcode may be created for advertisements in the New York Times while another is created for a particular magazine and another for online advertisements. Thus application can determine where the user saw the barcode that was scanned. On the other hand specific products may all have the same barcode. For example all of a certain type of shoe may have the same barcode. In other embodiments the barcode on a particular type of product can be different depending upon the location of the product. Thus by processing the data embedded in the barcode application can determine what product the user was looking at when he or she scanned the barcode as well as the user s location e.g. the particular store in which the user scanned the barcode . The store location can also or alternatively be determined using GPS data. All of this information may be stored in database .

In this manner a history can be maintained e.g. for each user as identified by a unique user identifier to track when and where the users see certain advertisements whether they follow up and view the products whether they purchase those products etc. All of this information can be stored and archived for the company or source in database or another database or databases. Reports can then be accessed or generated for the source conveying this information. This allows the source to determine where advertisements were seen how often these views were converted into purchases where those purchases were made etc.

Application can also include or be configured to work with analytics that allow the source to optimize their advertising and product placements based on the information gathered from and conveyed by users scanning the barcodes. For example the source may realize that few people are viewing their advertisements in a certain publication or publications or even if many people view the advertisements that few of those individuals actually make a purchase. Conversely for example a source may determine that while relatively few people view an advertisement in a particular publication the conversion rate i.e. the rate of individuals who purchase the products relative to the individuals who view the advertisements for those individuals is very high. Such information can then be used by the source to optimize their advertising and or product placement and distribution.

Application may have access to information across multiple products and companies. This information can be used to further optimize marketing campaigns and product placement. For example all of a user s scans across different types of products and advertisements for a whole host of products and brands can be stored in database . Based on this information the application other system or the source may determine correlations between products and advertisements. For instance it may be determined that users that purchase the products of one company also purchase the products of another company. This knowledge may be beneficial to a source which may modify its marketing to take advantage of this correlation.

In an embodiment the user can access a history of his or her scans. As illustrated in this history may be stored as the translated data embedded within the corresponding barcode. In embodiments in which the translated data comprises URLs or other references the user may select the data to revisit the URL or follow the reference. Alternatively or additionally the user may be able to access a history of the scanned barcode images themselves as illustrated in . In such an embodiment the images may act as icons representing the data embedded within the barcode. If the data comprises a URL or other reference when a user selects a barcode image within the history a client application e.g. browser may retrieve information from the URL or other reference.

The user can be provided with the option to access information relative to the associated product or service being advertised share information related to the product or service share such information along with a message etc. For example when a user scans a smart barcode using a scanner application as described herein the user can be presented options as illustrated in . One option can be to open a browser to access further information. This can connect the user with a server hosting application connect them with the company s website or connect them with the company s website through the server associated with application .

The user may then be provided information coupons future offers discounts or other special offers maps to nearby stores product details sweepstakes information or other premium content as illustrated in .

The user can also forward and share a URL embedded within a barcode via email SMS a post to a social network e.g. Twitter etc. as illustrated in . The user may also include a message with the forwarded URL or other information associated therewith as illustrated in .

The barcode can also act as a key to a portal that can include other applications associated with a product or service and or the source of the product or service. This portal can be hosted by the content server or other server associated with application . For example as illustrated in when the user scans a smart barcode associated with Starbucks it can take them to a Starbucks portal where they have the opportunity to join the Starbucks fan club share something related to Starbucks with their friends etc. There can for example also be a map application that displays other nearby Starbucks stores. illustrate some of the steps and applications that can be involved with a portal.

As shown in the content may be an interactive webpage which provides one or more options to the user. For example the webpage may comprise a user interface which provides the user with options to view or listen to digital media content e.g. video audio etc. join a loyalty program or social group and share content with one or more acquaintances.

If the user selects the option to view digital media content e.g. by selecting a hyperlink the client application may retrieve the digital media content e.g. from content server as shown in .

If the user instead or also selects to join a loyalty program the client application may retrieve a user interface comprising inputs for entering information related to the user. As shown in input text boxes may be provided for entering the user s name email address and the like and or radio buttons can be provided for the user to specify other information such as his or her gender. Once the user enters the requested information the user may submit the information to content server or other server for example using an HTML post request. An account can be created for the user and the user s information may be stored e.g. in database for future retrieval. As an incentive or reward for joining the loyalty program the user may be provided with a coupon after joining the loyalty program. For example after submitting the user s information the client application may be directed to a coupon or the user may be prompted to download a coupon as shown in .

The user may also select to share content or other information with an acquaintance. The client application may retrieve a user interface which prompts the user to enter the email address of an acquaintance as shown in . After the user enters the requested information and submits the information to content server or other device the client application may retrieve or be directed to another user interface which prompts the user to enter a message as shown in . The user may enter text and submit the message to content server . In an embodiment the content server may then generate and send an email message comprising the submitted message and optionally other information to the specified email address.

As illustrated in the purchasing user may then scan the barcode using a barcode scanning application executed on the user s device. The barcode scanning application or other client application on the user device may then translate the barcode into its embedded data according to known techniques. This embedded data may comprise a base URL as well as a product identifier associated with the particular card or gift purchased by the user. The product identifier may be unique. A client application such as the barcode scanning application or a third party browser may then request content from the URL which may be combined with a query string comprising the unique product identifier as well as other information e.g. a user identifier . The URL may identify a resource hosted on content server .

As illustrated in content server may return content based on the request from the client application on the user device. When the barcode is first scanned the content may comprise a message creation application or interface. For example the interface may prompt the user to enter identifying information such as the user s name and phone number. As shown in the message creation interface may enable the user to choose a background and background color and enter a title for the message as well as enter the message itself. In an embodiment the message creation interface also allows the user to specify that the recipient of the message should be permitted to call or text the user with one click for instance by clicking a button placed within the body of the message. The message creation interface may enable the user to preview the message as shown in and to either finalize or continue to edit the message. Once the user chooses to finalize the message the user may be notified that the message has been saved or otherwise store as shown in . The user may also be issued a coupon for example as an appreciation by the manufacturer or retailer of the purchased gift.

Once the user finalizes the message and or after a predetermined time or predetermined number of edits the application associates the barcode e.g. the URL and product identifier embedded within the barcode scanned by the user with the finalized message. This association may be stored in database . The next time someone scans the barcode the barcode scanning application or other client application will request content from the content server and this time instead of returning the message creation interface the content server will return the finalized message. Thus the user may give his or her gift to the intended recipient of the gift and when the recipient scans the barcode as illustrated in the recipient will receive the final message created by the gifting user as illustrated in . The final message may comprise a call sender button which if interacted with will call the user device of the gifting user. The final message may also provide the recipient with a coupon or an option to download a coupon. In addition the system e.g. application can track information via the barcode related to the sender and recipient of the gift by recording or otherwise extracting information from the interactions of the sender and recipient with content server or application .

In an embodiment the server executing application e.g. content server can actually comprise a plurality of servers hardware and or software and other resources as illustrated in . For example content server may comprise one or more load balancers and switches as well as a plurality of web servers mobile servers reporting servers application servers database servers and data storage. The content server may also comprise backup data storage servers and development servers.

As illustrated in a number of web services may interact with database for example using the Java Database Connectivity JDBC API. These web services may comprise a profile web service for managing profiles or configuration information a reporting web service for managing reporting features a registration web service for clients and a user interaction web service for managing user interactions with application or content server . Web applications may interact with these web services for example using Simple Object Access Protocol SOAP . These web applications may include a management web application which interacts with the profile reporting and administrative web services and a content web application which interacts with the user interaction web service. User devices e.g. desktop PCs tablet PCs smart phones etc. can interact with these web applications for example using a client application such as a web browser or barcode scanning application. These interactions between the user devices and the web applications generally comprise requests from the user devices and responses comprising content from the web applications. In an embodiment these requests and responses are transmitted using Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP .

The management web application may serve a plurality of websites including a registration site which enables clients to register with application or content server a reports site which provides reports and reporting tools for clients to track user interactions with the clients barcodes and a configuration site which allows clients to manage their campaigns e.g. generate barcodes manage content associate barcodes with content etc. . User devices may comprise a barcode scanning application such as a QRCode Reader as well as a browser application. The barcode scanning application may comprise functionality for scanning and translating barcodes. The barcode scanning application may interface with the browser application so as to provide translated barcodes e.g. comprising URLs to the browser application. Alternatively the barcode scanning application may itself comprise browser functionality.

The systems and methods described herein can also be used in conjunction with various sensors and output devices to generate a fuller 4 dimensional 4D experience. illustrate a high level diagram of a three dimensional viewing system. The three dimensional viewing system preferably allows a user to experience an interactive 3D i.e. 4D or virtual reality experience. The main difference between the embodiments shown in are the peripheral viewing areas of the user. In the embodiment shown in the peripheral viewing area of the user is narrow whereas in the embodiment shown in the peripheral viewing area of the user is wide and may comprise multiple displays at multiple angles relative to the user so as to at least partially enclose the user within the displays. While illustrate embodiments having a 3D display or displays the 3D aspect of the displays are optional as a conventional 2D display may be used as well.

The 3D viewing system may be implemented on any suitable type of computer system such as a smartphone a mobile phone a desktop or laptop computer a gaming console a server etc. The 3D display s may comprise a television monitor projector etc. The display s may be capable of displaying three dimensional images and video with or without the aid of three dimensional glasses. The 3D viewing system may be connected to the internet via various means e.g. wireless wired WIFI fast speed mobile connection etc. so that content hosted outside the system e.g. on a content server can be displayed to a user and data about the user and the user s interactions with the viewing system can be stored and tracked remotely. Alternatively or additionally the 3D viewing system may comprise a computer system such as a laptop desktop or server which is communicatively connected to the 3D display s and capable of displaying three dimensional images on the 3D display s . The computer system may comprise one or more applications configured to provide source specific three dimensional viewing experiences to users of user devices having different client applications installed.

The 3D viewing system may be used to view research and or purchase products from various retailers or manufacturers. For example the viewing system may be used to sort through a plurality of products and or types of products. In an embodiment the viewing system is implemented as a kiosk which may be located for example in a store or mall. In a first step a user may scan a matrix barcode affixed to a product or advertisement using a barcode scanning application residing on the user s device. After the user scans the barcode the barcode scanning application may translate the barcode into its embedded data. Next the barcode scanning application or other client application on the user s device may wirelessly transmit the data to an application residing on the viewing system. The application residing on the viewing system can then process the data to determine what product or marketing campaign the user is interested in. Alternatively or additionally the user may enter data e.g. gender product interest size color or other preferences etc. directly into the kiosk for example through a user interface with the application residing on the viewing system.

Once the user s interest is known the 4D or virtual reality experience may begin. This virtual reality experience can be achieved by using the combination of the 3D display s body motion sensor camera s e.g. the Microsoft Kinect and associated software. For example products matching or in the same category of the identified product may be presented on the 3D display s . The software of the viewing system may render the products such that they appear to come out from the display s and toward the user and even passing by the user.

In some embodiments once the initial visual is completed e.g. all the matching products have been presented a display of a finite number e.g. 10 20 items may then be presented on the 3D display. The user can then grab the individual items from the display. In an embodiment if an item is not of interest to the user the user can throw the item and the item will disappear into the distance. This interaction between the user and the items can be achieved by using the body motion sensor camera s which can include a depth of field camera and the ability to perform gesture recognition. This allows the user s body e.g. hands to appear to touch and manipulate the items being displayed. For example the user can move an item around with his or her hands to view it at different angles or distances.

In an embodiment if the user likes an item the user can virtually hold the item and scan a matrix barcode located on the virtual product e.g. located on the bottom of the virtual product using the user s device. In this embodiment the barcode scanning application of the user s device may be scanning a barcode displayed on the display s . Alternatively a client application on the user device may simply wirelessly interact with an application of the viewing system to notify the viewing system that the user is interest in the product currently being virtually held or manipulated. In either case the user can get additional information e.g. name costs content video audio sent to his or her user device. In some embodiments an option to purchase the product may be presented to the user via his or her user device or via the viewing system s display s e.g. as a check out button or link . In other embodiments a notification may appear to the user indicating that an in store sales representative will bring or send the product to the user.

Memory stores data temporarily for use by the other components of the computer system . In one implementation memory is implemented as RAM. In one implementation memory also includes long term or permanent memory such as flash memory and or ROM.

Storage stores data temporarily or for long term use by other components of the computer system including data used by the barcode content application . Such stored data may include previously measured values e.g. athletic values . In one implementation storage is a hard disk drive.

The media device receives removable media and reads and or writes data to the removable media. In one implementation for example the media device is an optical disc drive.

The user interface includes components for accepting user input from the user of the computer system and presenting information to the user. In one implementation the user interface includes a keyboard a mouse audio speakers and a display monitor. The controller uses input from the user to adjust the operation of the computer system .

The I O interface includes one or more I O ports to connect to corresponding I O devices such as external storage or peripheral devices e.g. a printer or a PDA . In one implementation the ports of the I O interface include ports such as USB ports PCMCIA ports serial ports and or parallel ports. In another implementation the I O interface includes a wireless interface for communication with external devices wirelessly.

The network interface includes a wired and or wireless network connection such as an RJ 45 or Wi Fi interface including but not limited to 802.11 supporting an Ethernet connection.

The computer system includes additional hardware and software typical of computer systems e.g. power cooling operating system though these components are not specifically shown in for simplicity. In other implementations different configurations of the computer system can be used e.g. different bus or storage configurations or a multi processor configuration .

Various illustrative implementations of the present invention have been described. However one of ordinary skill in the art will see that additional implementations are also possible and within the scope of the present invention. Accordingly the present invention is not limited to only those implementations described above. Those of skill in the art will appreciate that the various illustrative modules and method steps described in connection with the above described figures and the implementations disclosed herein can often be implemented as electronic hardware software firmware or combinations of the foregoing. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative modules and method steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled persons can implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the invention. In addition the grouping of functions within a module or step is for ease of description. Specific functions can be moved from one module or step to another without departing from the invention.

