---

title: Three-axis acceleration switch array
abstract: An acceleration switch array having at least two acceleration switches. Each acceleration switch includes a substrate, an anchor attached to the substrate, an electrically conductive mass disposed around the anchor and secured to the anchor by a spring assembly which permits movement of the mass relative to the anchor, and a plurality of electrical contacts positioned at circumferentially spaced positions around and outwardly from the mass. These electrical contacts are aligned along at least one orthogonal axis. A resistor array is electrically connected between the electric contacts of each acceleration switch for each orthogonal axis so that, upon contact between the mass and any of the electrical contacts, an electrical resistance is presented at an output terminal that is unique for each electrical contact for each acceleration switch.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08829373&OS=08829373&RS=08829373
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 08829373
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120919
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured used and licensed by or for the United States Government.

There is a need for acceleration sensor that can be used for traumatic brain injury TBI monitoring for extended periods of time and in a very small and lightweight package. Preferably the package would be small enough to be inserted into an earplug or affixed to the skin with adhesive tape. Such a switch could also have relevant applications in package surveillance shipping damage sensing inertial wake up switch for persistent low power sensing systems security system wakeup trigger for vehicles airbag deployment sensors impact or contact detection in robotics munition target impact detection and many more.

The relevant acceleration threshold ranges specific to TBI are approximately 30 g 300 g with a time resolution of 100 microseconds or faster.

There have been previously known acceleration sensors which have been fitted to helmets including helmets for both civilian and army applications. The monitoring for TBI using a helmet mounted acceleration sensor however is less than ideal since such helmets designed to absorb energy and lower the acceleration of the head. Consequently accurate monitoring of the head acceleration for TBI monitoring cannot be achieved with helmet mounted acceleration sensors.

There have been many previously known small accelerometers. However these previously known accelerometers have been active and thus require electrical power on full time basis. Even with a low current draw such accelerometers are simply inadequate for long term military use in very small systems with minimal space for batteries or other power supplies. This low power is an advantage for reducing the size of systems outside the scope of TBI as well for reduction size in overhead subcomponents as well.

A still further disadvantage of these previously known accelerometers is that such accelerometers have not proven either efficient or accurate in the measurement of the direction of the impact. However for TBI monitoring purposes the direction of the impact can be critical.

The present invention provides an acceleration switch array which overcomes the above mentioned disadvantages of the previously known accelerometer sensors providing a sensor that uses no power until an acceleration event occurs.

In brief the acceleration switch array of the present invention comprises at least two acceleration switches each having a substrate which may be made of any suitable material such as silicon. An anchor made of a conductive material is attached to the substrate and immovable relative to the substrate for each acceleration switch.

An annular electrically conductive mass is then disposed around the anchor for each acceleration switch and secured to the anchor by a spring assembly. This spring assembly permits movement of the mass relative to its associated anchor preferably in any direction including all three orthogonal directions.

A plurality of electrical contacts are positioned at circumferentially spaced positions around and spaced outwardly from the mass for each acceleration switch. Thus in the event of an impact in the X or Y direction the mass will move relative to the anchor and make contact with a contact aligned with the direction of movement of the impact. Similarly contacts are positioned both above and below the mass to detect movement of the mass in the Z direction.

The acceleration switches differ from each other in the acceleration threshold required to make contact between the conductive mass and its associated contacts. For example the threshold for one switch may be 30 g and the other switch may be 200 g.

All of the contacts from both acceleration switches and for each axis are connected to a resistor array which in turn is connected to an output terminal. Upon contact between the mass and one of the contacts an electrical circuit is completed through the mass spring assembly and anchor as well as one or more resistors in the resistor array. Consequently the resistance present at the output terminal is unique for each electrical contact in each axis for each acceleration switch. Thus an electrical circuit by processing the resistance at the electric terminal may determine not only the direction of the impact but also the magnitude of the impact.

Alternatively it is possible to achieve a two or even more threshold acceleration switch array by providing a second set of electrodes at a position more spaced from the mass. This second set of electrodes would only be contacted by the mass when the acceleration exceeded a second threshold greater than the first so that the acceleration switch array provides an indication of the acceleration for two different thresholds and the direction of that acceleration.

A primary advantage of the present invention over the previously known accelerometers is that the acceleration switch array of the present invention only draws electrical current during an impact event. Conversely when the mass is not in contact with any of the switches no electrical current is drawn by the switch array.

With reference first to a preferred embodiment of an acceleration switch array in accordance with the present invention is shown. The switch array includes at least two and preferably more aligned acceleration switches . The acceleration switches are substantially identical in construction except for the threshold impact necessary to activate the switch so that only one switch will be described in detail it being understood that a like description applies to the other switches .

With reference to the accelerator switch includes a substrate which may be made of any conventional material such as silicon. An anchor is attached to the substrate which does not move relative to the substrate . The anchor is constructed of an electrically conductive material.

An annular mass having a top bottom and an outer circumfery is disposed around the anchor . A spring assembly also constructed of an electrically conductive material extends between and is secured to both the anchor and the annular mass . The spring assembly is designed to maintain the annular mass while the substrate is stationary. However in the event of an acceleration of the substrate typically caused by an impact the mass will move relative to the anchor in a direction opposite from the direction of the acceleration and to an extent proportional to the magnitude of that acceleration.

A pair of diametrically opposed electrical contacts and each connected to an electrical pad and respectively are mounted to the substrate so that the electrical contacts and are spaced radially outwardly from the annular mass when it is at rest. These contacts and furthermore are aligned along at least one orthogonal axis such as the X axis.

Similarly a pair of diametrically opposed electrical contacts and each having an electrical pad and respectively are mounted on the substrate so that the contacts and are aligned with a second orthogonal axis i.e. the Y axis. Each electrical contact and is spaced radially outwardly from the mass when the mass is at rest.

A pair of contacts and each having an electrical pad and respectively are also mounted to the substrate so that the contacts and are spaced upwardly from the upper surface of the mass . Similarly a further pair of contacts and each having its own electrical pad and are mounted to the substrate so that the contacts and are spaced below the bottom surface of the mass . The contacts and are thus aligned along the Z axis for the mass .

With reference now to in the event that the substrate with its attached anchor undergoes an acceleration from an impact the mass will move in the opposite direction of the acceleration and in an amount that is proportional to the magnitude of the acceleration. Consequently the direction of the impact can be determined by a circuit which detects which of the several contacts has been contacted by the mass.

The mass contacts one of the electrical contacts as shown in phantom line whenever the acceleration of the substrate exceeds a predetermined threshold. That threshold is determined by a number of factors including the design of the spring assembly and the spacing between the various electrical contacts and the mass and weight of the mass . Consequently in order to obtain an acceleration switch array that provides an output signal that varies as a function of the magnitude of the acceleration multiple acceleration switches are coupled together with each acceleration switch having a different threshold.

One problem with assembling a plurality of different acceleration switches into an array each switch having a different threshold value is that the number of outputs from the array becomes unmanageable for small microprocessors which have a limited number of input signal lines. For example assuming that each acceleration switch array potentially provides six output signals i.e. X axis Y axis and Z axis an acceleration switch array having five acceleration switches each with a different threshold would have no less than thirty output signals. This is unacceptable for many small microprocessors with limited input lines. Reducing the number of outputs will also reduce the overall size of the device as the output pins must be a minimum size to form electromechanical interconnects.

With reference now to in order to accommodate multiple acceleration switch arrays e.g. five acceleration switch arrays each having a different threshold each axis of movement e.g. the X axis of movement may be electrically coupled through a resistor array so that for example upon contact of any of the masses along the X axis the X axis contact in one or more of the acceleration switches would complete an electrical circuit to ground through one or more resistors in the resistor array . For example if only a relatively low acceleration was imparted to the switch array containing multiple acceleration switches only the acceleration switch would close thus electrically connecting all five resistors in the resistor array in series with an output terminal . A microprocessor utilizing a single input line sensing the resistance at terminal would identify that only the lowest threshold acceleration switches had reached its threshold level.

Conversely in the event of a high impact so that the highest threshold acceleration switch array closed even though all of the lower threshold switches would close only a single resistor of the resistor array will be connected in series between the terminal and ground. This resistance would then be identified by the processor. Consequently for a switch array having multiple acceleration switches each switch presents a unique resistance at the output terminal along axis of impact. Since each acceleration switch closes at a different acceleration threshold the approximate magnitude of the impact can be determined.

Still referring to a second resistor array is shown for the X axis direction. Optionally the resistors in the resistor array present unique values to the output terminal by the selection of different values for the resistors so that both the magnitude and direction along each axis can be determined by a single input terminal to a processor. Still different resistor arrays are similarly provided for the Y and Z axes.

Consequently in this fashion multiple acceleration switches may be ganged together to produce an output signal not only of the direction of the array but also the magnitude or approximate magnitude of the acceleration.

Although the spring assembly illustrated in is shown as having a plurality of spiral spring elements other forms for the spring assembly may alternatively be used. For example as best shown in a modified spring assembly is shown which comprises alternating circumferential and radial spring elements.

Similarly with reference to a still modified spring assembly is shown in which the spring assembly is formed from a plurality of radially extending spring elements between the anchor and a rigid frame. These springs are flexible in the horizontal direction but stiff in the vertical direction. Another set of springs flexible in the vertical direction but stiff in the horizontal direction connects the rigid frame to the mass . This enables independent design of the horizontal and vertical axis stiffnesses for instance if the desired acceleration threshold is much higher in the horizontal axis than the vertical axis or vice versa. Still other designs for the spring assembly may be employed without deviation from the spirit or scope of the invention.

With reference now to in a modification of the acceleration switch array a pair of radially spaced contacts and are shown for use with the X axis. The inner contact may be suspended from a spring to allow it to displace outward. Multiple thresholds may be obtained in this design since during an acceleration of a relatively low threshold the mass contacts the first contact as shown in phantom line . The acceleration switch array then determines by any conventional way that the mass has only contacted the first or radially inner contact but not the outer contact . In doing so the acceleration is above the threshold defined by the radially inner contact but less than the threshold defined by the radially outer contact .

Conversely in the event of a higher acceleration as shown in phantom line in in which the mass pivots the inner radial contact outwardly and contacts the outer radial contact the acceleration switch array has undergone an acceleration greater than a threshold defined by the outer contact .

It will be understood of course that the provision of multiple contacts is also applicable for the Y axis as well as the X axis as well as the Z axis. Furthermore although only two contacts and are illustrated in three or even more contacts each representing a different acceleration threshold may be utilized without deviation from the spirit or scope of the invention.

In the acceleration switch array illustrated in only a single electrical contact was provided along both the X axis Y axis and Z axis. However in some cases more accurate measurement of the angle of the impact is desired.

Consequently and with reference now to the switch array is shown in which a plurality of electrical contacts are disposed around the outer periphery of the mass at a relatively close angular spacing. Consequently in the event of acceleration the mass may contact one or more of the contacts . The precise contacts that were contacted by the mass may be identified thus providing a more accurate indication of the direction of the acceleration.

An conventional method may be utilized to manufacture the acceleration switch array of the present invention. However preferably the switch array is constructed using conventional MEMS technology.

From the foregoing it can be seen that the present invention provides a simple yet effective acceleration switch array that provides not only accurate three axis detection of the direction of the acceleration but also improved indication of the magnitude of the acceleration. Having described our invention however many modifications thereto will become apparent to those skilled in the art to which it pertains without deviation from the spirit of the invention as defined by the scope of the appended claims.

