---

title: Mobile user interface for a picker application
abstract: A user interface of a mobile computing device having a mobile operating system and a display device utilizes a picker application to facilitate selection of an activity. More specifically, the picker application presents at least one radial list of items to provide an effective process for selecting activities categorized amongst one or more locales or neighborhoods associated with a location.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09223463&OS=09223463&RS=09223463
owner: GOOGLE INC.
number: 09223463
owner_city: Moutain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120424
---
The present disclosure relates to user interfaces and more specifically to displaying location based information on a display screen of a portable device.

Many mobile computing devices such as mobile phones navigators electronic books and the like provide functionality beyond that of their initial intended design. The ever increasing capabilities of the mobile phone in particular has propelled its use into areas once generally believed to be limited exclusively to fixed base or fixed line devices such as displaying video or browsing the Web. This convergence of the Internet and the mobile phone has vaulted the popularity of mobile access to the Web to rival that of fixed line access and has fostered the growth of location based services LBS such as entertainment social and or information.

Although its popularity continues to increase the mobile Web is not without its own problematic concerns. Usability issues exist and one issue in particular is associated with the physically smaller viewing area of the display screen typically used in portable devices. The smaller display screen inherently tends to detract from or hamper some of the capabilities of a web enabled and or LBS capable mobile computing device e.g. fewer windows crowded screen navigation and broken and compressed pages. Another issue that portable device users encounter relates to navigating among multiple pages of information displayed on the smaller display screen. It is not uncommon for a user to lose track at least temporarily of his current position within the several layers of information viewed on the display screen.

Although advancements have been made to enhance the visual experience with respect to the limited viewing area of the portable device there remains a need for a more effectual appearance of considerable amounts of content rendered on smaller display screens.

An apparatus and method of providing location based information via a user interface of a portable device. An example method includes receiving at the portable device location based information including an indication of entities available at a plurality of geographic areas proximate to a geographic point location associated with the portable device and displaying via the user interface a radial list including a plurality of selectable items including displaying each of the plurality of selectable items inside a respective shape radially positioned about a hub wherein each of the plurality of selectable items represents a respective group of one or more entities associated with a common geographic area.

A method according to another example implementation includes receiving at the portable device location based information including an indication of entities available at a plurality of geographic areas proximate to a geographic point location associated with the portable device and displaying via the user interface a first radial list of a plurality of selectable items including displaying each of the plurality of selectable items inside a respective shape radially positioned about a first hub representing the geographic point location associated with the portable device wherein each of the plurality of selectable items represents a respective group of one or more entities associated with a common geographic area. The method also includes displaying via the user interface a second radial list of a plurality of selectable sub items including displaying each of the plurality of selectable sub items inside a respective shape radially positioned about a second hub wherein each of the plurality of selectable sub items represents a respective group of one or more entities associated with a common activity.

In another example implementation a mobile computing device capable of displaying location based information on a display screen includes a processor coupled to a memory and a display screen a user interface coupled to the processor and the display screen and a radial list including a plurality of selectable items radially displayed about a hub on the display screen wherein each of the plurality of selectable items includes a shape and represents a respective group of one or more entities associated with a common geographic area.

Using the techniques described below a navigation module interface presents information on a display screen of a portable device in a manner that allows software applications to efficiently utilize the screen real estate and clearly guide the user through various categories of the presented information. Generally speaking the navigation module interface provides selections of information in a radial list of items and sub items one or more stacks of windows or both.

The radial list may be associated with a geographic position. For example a server can provide location based information that includes an indication of entities available at several geographic areas near a location associated with the portable device which may be the current location of the portable device or a location selected by a user. Items and sub items representing a group or groups of one or more entities are displayed within a radial list on a display screen. In one implementation the radial list is essentially a list with contents dispersed in a circular manner about a perimeter surrounding a point or hub. Several instances of the radial list may be generated at different stages of navigation through the available information. For example a first radial list includes items that correspond to groups of one or more entities associated with common geographic areas. The items are radially positioned about a hub on the display screen. Selection of a particular item from the first radial list triggers the display of a second radial list having sub items that correspond to a group of one or more entities associated with a common activity. Although both radial lists are displayed separately on the display screen the positioning of each respective hub may be coordinately aligned on the display screen.

Each item or sub item in either radial list may be depicted by a shape on the display screen. Further each item may include indications in the form of icons for examples of the types of activities available in the corresponding geographic area. A navigation module interface may dynamically determine the number of items to be included in each radial list the relative positioning of the items the types of icons or other indicators to be displayed for each item etc. based on the availability of relevant information. In some implementations the navigation module interface displays a radial list in a perspective view so as to cause certain items to appear larger i.e. closer and some items to appear smaller i.e. farther away from the viewer . In this manner more information can be made clearly visible to the user for an item appearing in the foreground. Further the navigation module interface may cause the list to rotate automatically or in response to a swipe gesture for example via which the user may communicate a momentum to the list. During rotation items that are not currently in the foreground may be partially clipped or may partially or completely momentarily disappear from the screen thus leaving more screen real estate to the item currently in the foreground. In this manner a relatively large amount of information can be clearly presented on the display screen.

In some situations such as in response to detecting a selection of a certain item in the second radial list the navigation module interface generates a stack of windows each window including a header segment and a content segment. The relative placement of windows in a stack reflects the hierarchy of information provided in the windows with a window presenting more particular information being displayed on top of a window presenting more general information. More particularly a new window may be displayed on top of an old window in response to the user selecting one of the options in the old window.

The uppermost window may obscure the underlying windows but the header portions of all windows in the stack may be arranged so that the designations e.g. text images in each header remain visible. In one implementation the header segments of a window overlying another window is rendered in a semi transparent form and the information in both the header of the overlying window and the header of the underlying window is readable or otherwise recognizable. Moreover in some cases the underlying windows are progressively reduced in size so that these windows appear to recede into the distance. In this manner more screen real estate can be reserved for the uppermost window.

These and other techniques are discussed in more detail below with reference to . Referring first to a sketch of a region includes several geographic areas e.g. neighborhoods districts locales. Within each geographic area one or more entities may be located where activities such as dining shopping night life etc. may be available. The geographic areas are likely known as identifiable areas and one or more may exist within a city or town. For example the geographic areas may include West Loop Hell s Kitchen Strip Magnificent Mile River Walk Rush Street or Cannery Row. In some cases a geographic area may be akin to a community which sometimes is denser than a neighborhood or locale. In yet other cases a geographic area is not generally recognized as a neighborhood or a community but includes a high number of entities of a particular type e.g. theaters within a relatively small distance of each other and accordingly may be treated as a geographic area e.g. theater district for the purposes of presenting information to a user using the techniques of the present disclosure.

The mobile computing device also includes a memory which may include any type of memory capable of being incorporated with a mobile computing device including random access memory RAM and read only memory ROM . Stored within the memory are an operating system and at least one application both of which may be executed by the processor . The application may be a special purpose application for viewing location based content or a general purpose application such as a web browser for example. The operating system in general may be any type of operating system capable of being executed on non portable or portable computing devices. In mobile applications the mobile operating system may be specifically designed for or capable of being used on the mobile computing device such as Android iOS Symbian etc. The computing device also includes a user interface UI which may include a display screen and a keyboard as well as a user interface module .

A navigation module interface may be a software module stored in the memory. For clarity the navigation module interface is depicted in as a separate module. However the navigation module interface in general can be provided in any suitable form. For example the navigation module interface may be a compiled library that the application as well as other applications can invoke via a predefined application programming interface API a script which the application may interpret at runtime a separate application etc.

A track pad track ball thumb wheel touch screen and the like may also be integrated and or incorporated with the user interface the user interface module and or the navigation module interface . The mobile computing device also includes a mobile positioning unit MPU that may incorporate any type of position locating technology component s capable of attaining a geographic location e.g. networked based global positioning system GPS etc. In some cases the MPU implements hotspot triangulation techniques and operates as a component or a function of a Wi Fi communication module for example.

The application residing within the portable device may be downloaded or input into the memory of the mobile computing device by a wired or wireless transfer a portable memory device or any other known means. When executed by the processor the application presents information visually on the display screen . In particular the portable device may receive information compiled by a server device and stored in a database . The information may pertain to entertainment business or social activities and in at least some of the cases may be location based information associated with a particular location. The particular location or point location is associated with the portable device and may be acquired by the MPU of the portable device . Alternatively the point location e.g. city name address ZIP code may be received by the portable device from the user via the user interface . In the case where the point location is entered into the portable device via the user interface the point location may not coincide with the actual physical location of the portable device . That is a geographic location other than the current physical location of the portable device may be used as the point location. In either case however the point location can be considered to be associated with the portable device .

Information received by the portable device from the server device may be configured for display in several windows on the display screen . As discussed in more detail below the content displayed in the windows may be categorically interconnected or linked. The information displayed on the display screen may be categorized by topic and or geography and associated in a hierarchical context such as in a category subcategory sub subcategory article etc. association.

In one example method the application is capable of presenting location based information on the display screen . When executed by the one or more the processors of the mobile computing device the application displays location based information relating to activities available at entities or establishments categorized among one or more geographic areas situated about the point location. In response to a request for a list of activities received at the portable device the portable device initiates a request for a list of activities to the server device . The request for a list of activities to the server device may include information pertaining to the geographic position of a point location as well as user specific information. In response to the request for a list of activities received from the mobile computing device the server device and its database provide compiled activity information to the portable device .

The location based information may include activity information that indicates locations of entities and activities available at these entities. The types of entities activities and locations provided by the server device may be dependent upon a variety of factors including distance limits between the entity and the point location. According to some implementations the server provides all relevant activity information to the mobile computing device at one time e.g. in a single data packet or a single sequence of data packets. In another implementation the server provides activity information in response to the user selecting particular categories based on the initially received location based information. More specifically the server first may provide location based information that indicates which activities are generally available in one or several geographic areas proximate to the point location but does not provide information that identifies specific entities associated with these activities in the geographic area. In response to the user selecting one of the geographic areas at the mobile device the server provides activity information that specifically identifies entities in the selected areas. As yet another alternative the server may provide sub category information e.g. five cheap restaurants three expensive restaurants in response to the user selecting a geographic area and provides entity specific information only in response to the user selecting one of the sub categories.

An illustration of location based information provided to the portable device in accordance with one example implementation of the method is shown in as a radial list of items . Each item represents a specific geographic area associated with the point location. One or more entities providing a desired activity is physically located within each of the geographic areas represented by the items A B C and D. Each representative item A B C and D in the first radial list may include a visible boundary to be at least partially enclosed within a delineating shape. The size and shape of the demarcation may be of any desired dimension and type such as a petal panel plate blade balloon plank board stave slat etc. By way of example only the items A D are shown in in a bulb like form.

Additional information related to each geographic area such the types of activities available or provided by entities located within the geographic area may be represented by an activity indicator . The activity indicator may be presented on the display screen within the related item of the radial list and include an image or icon depicting the type of activity. Some example icons for activities may include a purse or bag for shopping a set of cooking or eating utensils for dining or a cocktail glass for night life. Of course other activities may exist within a geographic area and be depicted by other representative icons and more than one icon may be displayed within the activity indicator and associated item in the radial list . The display of the icon representative of a particular activity within a particular selectable item may be dependent upon the amount of entities located within the associated geographic area providing the particular activity exceeding a threshold value e.g. one entity five entities.

In some respects the radial list operates as a location picker where several geographic areas are represented by the items positioned about and appearing to emanate from a hub . The hub may represent the point location that was determined or acquired by the positioning module and the placement of the items on the display screen about the hub generally references the geographic proximity of the geographic areas to the point location e.g. the geographic areas nearest the point location. In one example of the radial list the directional relationship of the location of each geographic area with respect to the point location may be represented on the display screen by the positional relationship of the respective items about the hub . That is the four sides of the display screen may coincide with the four main directions of a compass e.g. N E S and W and the positioning of a particular item about the hub on the display screen may visually reflect the directional position of the geographic area in relation to the point location. In addition each item in the first radial list may also include a distance indicator indicating the approximate distance between the point location and the geographic area represented by the item . More specifically the distance may be measured between the point location and a centroid geographic area the nearest point within the geographic area etc.

As indicated above the items of the radial list displayed on the display screen are individually selectable. The selection technique is primarily dependent upon the type of user interface implemented by the mobile computing device . If the display screen is responsive to touch tapping or pressing the display screen with a finger or stylus in accordance with most commonly used techniques may be acceptable. For example touching a section on the display screen proximate the desired selectable item in the radial list will select the selectable item . In implementations where the display screen is not touch sensitive the user interface module and the user interface e.g. track ball track pad etc. may facilitate advancement through the selectable items on the display screen whereupon the desired selectable item may eventually be highlighted for selection and or activation.

Although the radial list is displayed in a plan or top view in it is to be understood that other displays e.g. a perspective display as depicted in may also be presented. In addition another item that may be included in the first radial list is a navigation aid that facilitates the changing of the point location upon which the server device may rely to compile the location based information. One implementation of the navigational aid is depicted as the selectable item and includes a Change Location designation. Selection and or activation of the Change Location item will initiate steps on the portable device to acquire a different point location to be utilized by the server device in the compilation of location based information e.g. entities and activities categorized among one or more geographic areas near the point location.

In response to a particular selectable item being selected from the first radial list the portable device identifies the associated geographic area represented by the selected item and displays a subcategory of information on the display screen of the mobile computing device . The subcategory of information may pertain to activities provided by one or more entities located within the geographic area associated with the selected selectable item . Referring to the selected subcategory of information may be presented as a radial list of sub items on the display screen . This second radial list in turn includes selectable sub items and each selectable sub item represents an activity available at the particular geographic area represented by the selectable item previously selected from the first radial list . In other words the sub items in the second radial list indicate availability of more specific information regarding the activity and or entity sought in respect to the particular geographic area and associated point location. As such the sub items may be considered to be subdivisions of the items where each sub item represents a common differentiating characteristic i.e. activity within the larger category of items e.g. geographic areas. In addition to the primary categorizations relating to geographic area and activity types other divisions may be established by user preferences and or configuration of the corresponding application.

The method therefore may implement a second picker application e.g. an activity picker where at least a portion of the second radial list of selectable sub items is displayed on the display screen in response to receiving a selection of a particular selectable item from the first radial list of items. For example in and A C the selectable items listed in the first radial list represent several geographic areas. The selection of one of the selectable items will elicit more specific information related to the associated geographic area to be displayed on the display screen . In particular the second radial list of sub items representing activities e.g. dining shopping night life available within the corresponding geographic area will be displayed on the portable device . Each selectable sub item may include an activity indicator and a representative activity icon as shown in . Upon selection of a selectable sub item depicted in the second radial list additional more specific information may be displayed on the display screen until eventually an article e.g. entity or establishment for engaging in the desired activity is determined.

Similar to the first radial list one of the selectable sub items depicted within the second radial list may be a navigational aid e.g. Change Location not shown in . Upon selecting the selectable sub item designated with a Change Location indicator the navigation module interface may dismiss the display of the second radial list from the display screen and redisplay the first radial list or the process for selecting a different point location may be initiated. Alternatively a hardware component e.g. button operatively attached to the mobile computing device and having the same functionality as the Change Location item and or sub item may be used in either radial list instead of the designated Change Location item and or sub item.

In an alternate implementation the display of the first and or the second radial lists may be animated wherein the individually selectable item s and or sub item s within the respective radial list appears to revolve about the respective hub . As shown in and A C the revolution of selectable items or sub items about their respective hub may be in a clockwise or counter clockwise direction and the respective hubs may appear visually or coordinately aligned between respective displays and or animations of the radial lists presented on the display screen . In the implementation where each selectable item or sub item is delineated by a shape the size of the shape may change e.g. increase or decrease randomly or at prescribed times or locations within the orbit. For example as each selectable item or sub item appears to approach the bottom portion of the display screen the size of the shape may be enlarged for better viewing. Additionally the shape associated with the selectable items and sub items within their respective radial list may be the same size or the sizes between selectable items and sub items within their respective radial list may vary. The size variation between selectable items and or sub items may be representative of a characteristic such as an amount of activities associated with each geographic area or the distance from the point location to the geographic area. The type or color of shape associated with the selectable item and or sub item may also change during the orbit for example from a bulb to a plank.

Regardless of whether the shapes associated with the selectable items and sub items are of equal or different size shape or color all the selectable items and sub items may fit entirely within the display screen or a portion or portions of the selectable items or sub items may temporarily extend beyond the border of the display screen and not be viewable until the selectable item or sub item continues revolving about the respective hub . As shown in and A C the shape associated with some of the selectable items or sub items appears to extend beyond the border or boundary of the display screen which may produce a visual effect that at least a portion of the shape associated with the item or sub item appears to leave the display screen and return to the display screen.

Scrolling and text movement may often had been necessary when employing dialog boxes or picker applications because not all of the list contents may have fit within the viewable portion the screen and the list contents would remain off screen until the user interacted to move the contents of the list into view. However through the use of graphics and animation the first and second radial lists displayed in and provide the entire portion of every selectable item and sub item in a viewable form at some time on the display screen with little or no user interaction. That is the animated radial lists continually display the selectable items and or sub items without the need for user interaction with the user interface to scroll or move the selectable items and or sub items about the display screen . In some implementations the radial list remains static until the user communicates motion to the radial list for example through a swipe of a finger upon the display screen . In the example radial lists depicted in and A C the plurality of respective selectable items and sub items are shown in a continuum of three discrete screenshots as revolving in a clockwise direction as indicated by the directional arrow near the bottom of the display screen about their respective hub so that the shape associated with each selectable item and sub item appears to increase in size at it approaches the bottom of the display screen and appears to decrease in size as it approaches the top of the display screen . The shape associated with the selectable item or sub item nearest the bottom edge of the display screen may be shown in its entirety within the display screen in an attempt to draw more attention to the item sub item.

In implementations incorporating display screens responsive to touch the revolution of the radial list s may be modified e.g. started sped up slowed down stopped and reversed. In addition the size and shape associated with each selectable item and or sub item provides a larger surface area for integration and interaction with the user interface user interface module and or navigation module interface as compared to many existing picker applications and dialog boxes. The larger surface area of the shape facilitates selection of the selectable item and or sub item as compared to the functionally similar areas implemented in picker applications and dialog boxes that are typically constrained by the font size of the text being utilized.

Referring now to and again to A C and A C one implementation of an example method for use in a portable device having an operating system and a display screen includes acquiring a point location at a block . The computing device requests location based information associated with the point location from a server device . The point location may be acquired by the positioning module utilizing a location positioning technology e.g. GPS or the point location may have been received at the computing device e.g. entry of a city name or ZIP code through the user interface . The computing device receives location based information associated with the point location. At least one processor of the computing device operatively cooperates with the graphics processing unit and the navigation module interface at a block to display the first radial list of items on the display screen . A selection of one of the selectable items displayed on the first radial list is received by navigation module interface and user interface at a block . The graphics processing unit and the navigation module interface operatively cooperate at a block to display at least a portion of the radial list of sub items on the display screen in response to the particular item selected from the radial list of items .

Another implementation of a method for use in a portable device having an operating system and a display screen is shown in with further reference to A and A where the point location is acquired at block . The point location may be acquired by the positioning module utilizing a location positioning technology e.g. GPS or the point location may have been acquired at the computing device via entry of a city name or ZIP code through the user interface . A request is received by the user interface of the portable device at a block to display a list of activities available within a distance of the acquired point location. At a block location based information is acquired at the portable device in response to the request to display a list of activities available near the point location. The GPU and the navigation module interface cooperate at a block to display at least a portion of a first radial list on the display screen . The first radial list shown in includes a compilation of the acquired location based information in particular activities located in geographic areas near the point location. Each geographic area is exclusively associated with one item e.g. bulb of the first set of items depicted in the first radial list on the display screen . Upon selection of one of the items a request to display a list of activities available within the geographic area associated with the selected item is received by the navigation module interface at a block . Activity information is acquired by the portable device at a block . The GPU and the navigation module interface operatively cooperate at a block to display at least a portion of the radial list of sub items on the display screen . An example of the second radial list is shown in and includes a compilation of the available activities. Each activity of the plurality of activities is associated with and represented by one sub item of the radial list which is associated with the geographic area that corresponds to the selected item .

Another subcategory of location based information that may be presented on the display screen in response to the selection of a selectable item in the first radial list or in response to the selection of a selectable sub item in the second radial list is a further categorization of the activity information that was received from the server device . This information may be displayed in a window like appearance on the display screen as shown in and A C. The location based information provided to the mobile computing device may be displayed amongst a plurality of windows on the display screen in such a manner as to present a visual effect of a stack of layered windows. The layered stack of windows is aesthetically arranged to provide positional awareness within the stack of windows while traversing the information displayed on the display screen . Each window of the plurality of windows of compiled information is categorically interconnected or linked to the previous and or subsequent window of displayed information. The interconnection between the plurality of windows of information may be topically and or geographically associated in a hierarchical context such as in a category subcategory and sub subcategory relationship.

Each window of the plurality of windows displayed on the mobile computing device and shown on the display screen includes a header segment and a content segment . A portion of the header segment of each window of the plurality of windows displayed on the display screen is visible on the display screen to contribute to the visual effect of the stack of layered windows. If desired a portion of the header segment of any combination of underlying windows within the stack of layered windows displayed on the display screen may be displayed in a semi transparent faded out and or resized form in comparison to the header segment associated with the uppermost displayed window appearing on the display screen .

Various example formats of header segments displayed in a few example configurations of the layered stack of windows displayed on the display screen are illustrated in and A C. In response to the selection of one of the selectable sub items in the second radial list the navigation module interface displays a first window of information on the display screen of the mobile computing device that may have an appearance similar to that shown in . The first window of information includes a header segment that may display an area indicator identifying the geographic area associated with the information being displayed on the window as well as an activity type indicator identifying the type of activity associated with the information being displayed on the window . Information pertaining to the various groupings or categories related to the activity can be contained within the content segment of the first window .

To better illustrate the relationship between windows the header segments and content segments in and A C display generic designations such as area activity category and entity. However it will be understood that the navigation module interface displays names or designations of actual geographic areas activities and entities. Further it is noted that the names or designations need not be text based and may be pictorial for example.

With continued reference to if dining is the activity type associated with the sub item selected from the radial list of sub items any subcategories or groups of dining e.g. restaurants fast food places coffee shops may be listed within the content segment of the first window of information. The one or more groups of dining are displayed in the first window on the display screen . The header segment of the first displayed window includes the area indicator identifying the particular area e.g. Area where entities capable of providing the activity e.g. dining exist. The various groups of dining are displayed within the content segment of the first displayed window and a header e.g. Category A Category B etc. may be used to differentiate between the different subcategories of dining e.g. fine dining fast food coffee shop. If the subcategory information exceeds the boundary of the content segment of the window the information contained within the content segment may be scrolled through via utilization of the navigation module interface . At all times however the header segment of the first display window remains essentially affixed proximate to an edge of the display screen .

The uppermost displayed window of information may be removed from the display screen by invoking the navigation module interface . In one implementation the navigation module interface may be invoked by tapping the header segment with a finger or stylus or a button e.g. back button operatively affixed to the user interface may be actuated. Upon removal of the first displayed window the first or second radial list may be re displayed according to one example implementation.

Further in this example selection of any of the subcategories or groups of dining activity may invoke the navigation module interface to display a list of entities e.g. proprietors establishments providing the type of activity selected from the first displayed window on the display screen within the content segment of a second window . For example if coffee shop is the selected subcategory entities located with the geographic area and falling within the classification of coffee shop will be listed by the navigation module in the content section of the second window .

As shown in the second display window is positioned atop the first display window initially shown in and essentially occupies the entire width of the display screen . The content segment of the first window of information includes several categories or groups of the activity e.g. dining however this information is now obscured by the display of the second window although the header segment and its contents of the first displayed window are only partially obscured by the second displayed window . The content segment of the second window of information includes a list of subcategories e.g. entities where the selected activity is available. Information contained within the content segment of the second window is directed toward these entities and may include brief information about each listed entity. The header segment of the second displayed window is positioned proximate to the header segment of the first displayed window which remains positioned proximate to the upper edge of the display screen . The area of the header segment of the first displayed window however may be reduced in comparison to the header segment of the second displayed window . In particular the width and height of the header segment of the underlying window shown in is reduced in comparison to the header segment of the uppermost displayed window on the display screen . The appearance and size of the content information e.g. text font within the header segment of the first display window may similarly be reduced in proportion to the reduction in area of its header segment.

In response to the selection of a sub category e.g. entity displayed on the uppermost window in a third display window is displayed and positioned atop the second and first displayed windows initially shown in . As shown in the third display window essentially occupies the entire width of the display screen and obscures the content segments of the first and second displayed windows. The content segment of the third window includes specific information pertaining to the particular sub subcategory e.g. entity selected from the second window shown in . Information about the entity is displayed within the content segment of the third window and may include images video content hyperlinks contact information detailed commentary ratings etc. The header segment of the third display window is positioned proximate to the header segment of the second display window while the header segment of the second display window remains positioned proximate to header segment of the first display window which remains positioned proximate to the edge of the display screen .

Although the header segment of the third display window partially obscures the header segment of the second display window which in turn partially obscures the header segment of the first display window the header segment of any combination of underlying windows may be displayed in a semi transparent form. For example in the header segment of the second display window is displayed in a semi transparent form and the contents of the header segment of the first display window are therefore visible and recognizable. Thus as more particularly shown in content information within the header segment of the first display window such as the area indicator and the activity type indicator are viewable.

In one implementation the uppermost window may be removed and the underlying window brought to the foreground by the navigation module interface in response to detecting that the user tapped or otherwise selected a portion of the header segment or a back button associated with the uppermost displayed window. The user can thus pop the uppermost displayed window off the stack of windows with a single tap of the header or if a keyboard is used with the activation of a single keystroke push button or mouse click .

An alternative implementation of the displayed stack of windows is illustrated in which is similar in all aspects to the implementation described in except for the reduction within in the area i.e. width of the header segments of underlying windows within the stack of windows. As illustrated in the size of the text and or images in the header segment of the uppermost window may be the same as in the header segment of each underlying window. Accordingly in one implementation the header segments of the underlying windows may occupy more space on the screen and it may appear that less screen space has been allocated to the uppermost window as compared to the arrangement of windows in .

The recognizability of the content information within all header segments of the displayed windows and provided by the semi transparent display of any combination of header segments enhances the positional awareness of the viewer s location within the stack of windows. Thus after several successive window selections e.g. a category a subcategory and a sub subcategory the user remains visually aware of the history of arriving at the uppermost window and can easily reverse the selection process. In addition the sequential reduction in the header segment area of underlying windows may improve the readability of the information displayed within the stack of windows on the display screen by subtly steering the viewer s attention to the information presented in the uppermost displayed window of the stack of windows and reducing extraneous visual noise that may be attributed to the underlying windows previously displayed on the display screen .

It is further noted that the arrangement of windows discussed above efficiently utilizes limited screen real estate of a typical mobile device. In particular arranging several windows in a stacked form allows multiple windows to remain partially visible while allocating most of the screen area to the uppermost window. Further rendering one or several header segments in a semi transparent form and or progressively reducing the header segments of the underlying windows allows the header portion of the uppermost displayed screen to occupy a greater portion of the screen area with respect to the other header portions.

In another implementation the header segment of any window may include a lateral movement indicator s where utilization of the lateral movement indicator provides for the sequential display of information pertaining to a group of articles. For example when viewing the third window of information which displays information pertaining to one entity within a group of entities movement to another entity within the group for the purpose of displaying the entity information on the display screen is provided for through the utilization of the lateral movement indicators in the header segment. That is user engagement with the lateral indicator will enable the sequential display of information of each entity within the group without being required to dismiss or pop off the third uppermost displayed window scroll through the content segment of the second window and then select another entity to display a third window. An extension of this lateral navigation aspect through a group of entities is also contemplated by a further implementation where lateral navigation amongst categories subcategories and sub subcategories associated with a common geographic area is provided. The lateral navigation through the categories subcategories and sub subcategories displayed on the display screen may be invoked through a finger swipe atop the touch sensitive display screen or through activation of other components of the user interface

In addition the header segment may include a color and or be shaded so as to designate a particular activity e.g. teal for shopping cobalt for night life and burgundy for dining. The color displayed in the header segment will be consistent throughout the other displayed windows in the stack that pertain to the same or similar activity or more generally a similar category sub category or sub subcategory of information.

Referring again to A D and A C is a flow diagram of an example method for displaying information within several windows on a display screen of a mobile computing device or a similar computing device. A request for information is received at a user interface of the mobile computing device at a block . Information responsive to the request is acquired by the mobile computing device . The acquired information may be received from a server device and its database and include location based information pertaining to a geographic location associated with the mobile computing device . A navigation module interface displays the received information through a plurality of windows on the display screen at a block . Each window displayed on the display screen includes a header segment . During the display of the stack of windows the header segment of one or more windows within the stack of windows may be displayed in a semi transparent form at a block .

Referring again to A D and A C is flow diagram of another method for displaying information within several windows on a display screen of a mobile computing device . The method includes receiving the selection of an activity at a block . The activity may be selected at the user interface of the mobile computing device . Information associated with the activity is displayed by the navigation module interface within a stack of windows on the display screen at a block . The displayed stack of windows substantially occupies the entire area of the display screen . At a block the uppermost window of the stack of windows is displayed in such a manner as to substantially occupy the entire width of the display screen .

It is apparent from the description above that considerable amounts of information can be effectively presented on smaller screens commonly used with portable devices through the use of a radial list and a hierarchical stack of windows. The information may be compiled and presented in accordance with a variety of categorizations and user preferences and characteristics.

The following additional considerations apply to the foregoing discussion. Throughout this specification plural instances may implement components operations or structures described as a single instance. Although individual operations of one or more methods are illustrated and described as separate operations one or more of the individual operations may be performed concurrently and nothing requires that the operations be performed in the order illustrated. Structures and functionality presented as separate components in example configurations may be implemented as a combined structure or component. Similarly structures and functionality presented as a single component may be implemented as separate components. These and other variations modifications additions and improvements fall within the scope of the subject matter of the present disclosure.

Additionally certain embodiments are described herein as including logic or a number of components modules or mechanisms. Modules may constitute either software modules e.g. code stored on a machine readable medium or hardware modules. A hardware module is tangible unit capable of performing certain operations and may be configured or arranged in a certain manner. In example embodiments one or more computer systems e.g. a standalone client or server computer system or one or more hardware modules of a computer system e.g. a processor or a group of processors may be configured by software e.g. an application or application portion as a hardware module that operates to perform certain operations as described herein.

In various embodiments a hardware module may be implemented mechanically or electronically. For example a hardware module may comprise dedicated circuitry or logic that is permanently configured e.g. as a special purpose processor such as a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific integrated circuit ASIC to perform certain operations. A hardware module may also comprise programmable logic or circuitry e.g. as encompassed within a general purpose processor or other programmable processor that is temporarily configured by software to perform certain operations. It will be appreciated that the decision to implement a hardware module mechanically in dedicated and permanently configured circuitry or in temporarily configured circuitry e.g. configured by software may be driven by cost and time considerations.

Accordingly the term hardware should be understood to encompass a tangible entity be that an entity that is physically constructed permanently configured e.g. hardwired or temporarily configured e.g. programmed to operate in a certain manner or to perform certain operations described herein. Considering embodiments in which hardware modules are temporarily configured e.g. programmed each of the hardware modules need not be configured or instantiated at any one instance in time. For example where the hardware modules comprise a general purpose processor configured using software the general purpose processor may be configured as respective different hardware modules at different times. Software may accordingly configure a processor for example to constitute a particular hardware module at one instance of time and to constitute a different hardware module at a different instance of time.

Hardware and software modules can provide information to and receive information from other hardware and or software modules. Accordingly the described hardware modules may be regarded as being communicatively coupled. Where multiple of such hardware or software modules exist contemporaneously communications may be achieved through signal transmission e.g. over appropriate circuits and buses that connect the hardware or software modules. In embodiments in which multiple hardware modules or software are configured or instantiated at different times communications between such hardware or software modules may be achieved for example through the storage and retrieval of information in memory structures to which the multiple hardware or software modules have access. For example one hardware or software module may perform an operation and store the output of that operation in a memory device to which it is communicatively coupled. A further hardware or software module may then at a later time access the memory device to retrieve and process the stored output. Hardware and software modules may also initiate communications with input or output devices and can operate on a resource e.g. a collection of information .

The various operations of example methods described herein may be performed at least partially by one or more processors that are temporarily configured e.g. by software or permanently configured to perform the relevant operations. Whether temporarily or permanently configured such processors may constitute processor implemented modules that operate to perform one or more operations or functions. The modules referred to herein may in some example embodiments comprise processor implemented modules.

Similarly the methods or routines described herein may be at least partially processor implemented. For example at least some of the operations of a method may be performed by one or processors or processor implemented hardware modules. The performance of certain of the operations may be distributed among the one or more processors not only residing within a single machine but deployed across a number of machines. In some example embodiments the processor or processors may be located in a single location e.g. within a home environment an office environment or as a server farm while in other embodiments the processors may be distributed across a number of locations.

The one or more processors may also operate to support performance of the relevant operations in a cloud computing environment or as an SaaS. For example at least some of the operations may be performed by a group of computers as examples of machines including processors these operations being accessible via a network e.g. the Internet and via one or more appropriate interfaces e.g. application program interfaces APIs .

Some portions of this specification are presented in terms of algorithms or symbolic representations of operations on data stored as bits or binary digital signals within a machine memory e.g. a computer memory . These algorithms or symbolic representations are examples of techniques used by those of ordinary skill in the data processing arts to convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art. As used herein an algorithm or a routine is a self consistent sequence of operations or similar processing leading to a desired result. In this context algorithms routines and operations involve physical manipulation of physical quantities. Typically but not necessarily such quantities may take the form of electrical magnetic or optical signals capable of being stored accessed transferred combined compared or otherwise manipulated by a machine. It is convenient at times principally for reasons of common usage to refer to such signals using words such as data content bits values elements symbols characters terms numbers numerals or the like. These words however are merely convenient labels and are to be associated with appropriate physical quantities.

Unless specifically stated otherwise discussions herein using words such as processing computing calculating determining presenting displaying or the like may refer to actions or processes of a machine e.g. a computer that manipulates or transforms data represented as physical e.g. electronic magnetic or optical quantities within one or more memories e.g. volatile memory non volatile memory or a combination thereof registers or other machine components that receive store transmit or display information.

As used herein any reference to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular element feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment. The appearances of the phrase in one embodiment in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

Some embodiments may be described using the expression coupled and connected along with their derivatives. For example some embodiments may be described using the term coupled to indicate that two or more elements are in direct physical or electrical contact. The term coupled however may also mean that two or more elements are not in direct contact with each other but yet still co operate or interact with each other. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

As used herein the terms comprises comprising includes including has having or any other variation thereof are intended to cover a non exclusive inclusion. For example a process method article or apparatus that comprises a list of elements is not necessarily limited to only those elements but may include other elements not expressly listed or inherent to such process method article or apparatus. Further unless expressly stated to the contrary or refers to an inclusive or and not to an exclusive or. For example a condition A or B is satisfied by any one of the following A is true or present and B is false or not present A is false or not present and B is true or present and both A and B are true or present .

In addition use of the a or an are employed to describe elements and components of the embodiments herein. This is done merely for convenience and to give a general sense of the description. This description should be read to include one or at least one and the singular also includes the plural unless it is obvious that it is meant otherwise.

Upon reading this disclosure those of skill in the art will appreciate still additional alternative structural and functional designs for a system and a process for rendering information on a mobile computing device having a display screen through the disclosed principles herein. Thus while particular embodiments and applications have been illustrated and described it is to be understood that the disclosed embodiments are not limited to the precise construction and components disclosed herein. Various modifications changes and variations which will be apparent to those skilled in the art may be made in the arrangement operation and details of the method and apparatus disclosed herein without departing from the spirit and scope defined in the appended claims.

