---

title: Amplifier for buoyant cable antenna
abstract: An amplifier for use in a buoyant cable antenna operable to receive signals within a frequency band includes: a first amplifier operable to provide amplified signals based on the received signals; a bandpass filter arranged to pass filtered signals within a first portion of the frequency band, the filtered signals being based on the amplified signals; an attenuator arranged in parallel with said bandpass filter and operable to attenuate signals within a second portion of the frequency band, the attenuated signals being based on the amplified signals; and a second amplifier operable to provide an amplified output including first amplified signals within the first portion of the frequency band and to provide second amplified signals within the second portion of the frequency band. The first amplified signals have a first gain, the second amplified signals have a second gain, and the first gain is more than the second gain.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08736380&OS=08736380&RS=08736380
owner: The Johns Hopkins University
number: 08736380
owner_city: Baltimore
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120831
---
This application is a divisional application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 551 649 filed Sep. 1 2009 and published Mar. 3 2011 as U.S. patent publication no. 2011 0051555 which claims priority to and the benefit of U.S. provisional patent application Ser. No. 61 104 351 filed Oct. 10 2008 the contents of which are hereby incorporated herein in their entireties.

This invention was made with U.S. Government support under the Naval Sea Systems Command contract number N00024 04 D 8601. The U.S. Government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention is drawn to an amplifier and a processing system enabling a submersible vehicle to accurately determine its location.

Conventional methods employed by submersible vehicles to determine their location when submerged are prone to inaccuracies or unreliable. More accurate methods used when on the surface are not available when submerged below periscope depth.

One conventional method submersible vehicles use for determining their location is with inertial guidance systems. Inertial guidance systems operate by monitoring acceleration and changes in rotational attributes like pitch roll and yaw. This data along with the submersible vehicle s speed is processed by a computer to determine the current position of the submersible vehicle. Unfortunately inertial guidance systems suffer from accumulated error. Any errors in measurement of the rotational attributes are accumulated. With enough error accumulation the total error can become significant enough to cause safety issues as the operators of the submersible vehicle think they are at a particular location but are actually at a very different location.

Submersible vehicles have several other methods for navigation including sonar radar radio and Global Positioning System GPS . Each of these methods has limitations with respect to their use. Submersible vehicles may operate in stealth mode wherein active sonar and radar methods of navigation may not be used because such methods may enable outside observers to determine the location of the submersible vehicle. Submersible vehicles can determine their location with radio navigation and a GPS however both of these methods require the submersible vehicle to operate at periscope depth and extend an antenna above the surface of the body of water.

The majority of submersible vehicle is located in undersea region . Periscope and antenna extend above the upper region of submersible vehicle . When submersible vehicle is at periscope depth as illustrated in it is able to use periscope by extending it above sea surface . Submersible vehicle uses periscope to view objects located on or adjacent to sea surface . At periscope depth submersible vehicle is able to extend antenna above sea surface . When antenna is extended above sea surface antenna is able to receive radio signal and radio signal . GPS satellite and GPS satellite are located in orbit above the earth. Submersible vehicle is able to process radio signal and radio signal to determine its location.

As illustrated in submersible vehicle is fully submerged beneath sea surface . Antenna is positioned beneath sea surface and is located in undersea region . Due to their high frequencies radio signal and radio signal are not able to penetrate into undersea region where antenna is located. Submersible vehicle is not able to receive radio signal and radio signal and is not able to determine its location.

A conventional method for a submersible vehicle to determine its position while below periscope depth using GPS satellites will now be described with reference to .

As illustrated in submersible vehicle is fully submerged with antenna and periscope located in undersea region . As described previously and illustrated in antenna is not able to receive GPS radio signals and . As a result submersible vehicle is unable to determine is location with a GPS using antenna .

However the buoyant antenna portion of BCA floats on sea surface while the other end is connected to submersible vehicle . Since buoyant antenna portion floats on top of sea surface it is able to receive radio signal and radio signal . Radio signal and radio signal would be conveyed from BCA to submersible vehicle . Inline amplifier would be required to amplify radio signal and radio signal to account for losses while traveling along buoyant transmission cable portion . Submersible vehicle receives the amplified version of radio signal and radio signal . Submersible vehicle uses the amplified version of radio signal and radio signal to determine its location with a GPS. However two problems still exist with this method.

The above described method determines the location of buoyant antenna portion . Only an approximate location of submersible vehicle is determined as a result of the distance between an end of BCA and submersible vehicle as denoted by a separation distance .

A second problem with the above method is that conventional inline amplifier is not capable of providing sufficient amplification of radio signal and radio signal to reach the interior of submersible vehicle with sufficient strength to be used to determine a position.

As illustrated in inline amplifier includes a filter an amplifier a gain compensation filter an amplifier and a filter .

Filter is arranged to receive an input signal and output a filtered signal . Amplifier is arranged to receive filtered signal and output an amplified signal . Gain compensation filter is arranged to receive amplified signal and output a compensated signal . Amplifier is arranged to receive compensated signal and output an amplified signal . Filter is arranged to receive amplified signal and output an output signal .

In operation the end of BCA receives a signal for example from GPS satellite . The signal is transmitted along buoyant transmission cable portion until it is amplified by inline amplifier . Specifically filter receives input signal and passes a portion of input signal that is within a predetermined frequency band s of interest and attenuates the remaining portions of input signal .

Gain compensation filter compensates for the signal attenuation characteristics of the transmission cable connected between output of inline amplifier and submersible vehicle . Specifically gain compensation filter has a transfer function that provides an incremental increase in amplification for a predetermined portion of amplified signal .

Filter receives passes a portion of amplified signal that is within a predetermined frequency band s of interest and attenuates the remaining portions of amplified signal .

As discussed above even if BCA is able to transmit received GPS signals to submersible vehicle submersible vehicle may not accurately determine its location as a result of the unknown position of buoyant antenna portion relative to submersible vehicle .

What is needed is a system and method for a submersible vehicle to accurately determine its location when submerged.

It is an object of the present invention to provide a system and method for a submersible vehicle to accurately determine its location when submerged.

An aspect of the present invention is drawn to method of determining a location of a submersible vehicle. The method includes obtaining first bearing information based on a location of a ship at a first time relative to the submersible vehicle and receiving broadcast information from the ship wherein the broadcast information includes location information related to a second location of the ship at a second time a velocity of the ship at the second time and a course of the ship at the second time. The method further includes obtaining second bearing information based on the second location of the ship at the second time relative to the submersible vehicle obtaining a velocity of the submersible vehicle at the second time and obtaining a course of the submersible vehicle at the second time. The method still further includes determining the location of the submersible vehicle based on the first bearing information the second location of the ship at the second time the velocity of the ship at the second time the course of the ship at the second time the second bearing information the velocity of the submersible vehicle at the second time and the course of the submersible vehicle at the second time.

Another aspect of the present invention is drawn to another method of determining a location of a submersible vehicle. The method includes receiving first broadcast information from a first ship wherein the first broadcast information includes first location information related to a location of the first ship. The method additionally includes receiving second broadcast information from a second ship wherein the second broadcast information includes second location information related to a location of the second ship. Further the method includes obtaining first bearing information based on the location of the first ship relative to the submersible vehicle and obtaining second bearing information based on the location of the second ship relative to the submersible vehicle. Still further the method includes determining the location of the submersible vehicle based on the first broadcast information the second broadcast information the first bearing information and the second bearing information.

Yet another aspect of the present invention is drawn to an amplifier for use in a buoyant cable antenna operable to receive signals within a frequency band. The amplifier includes a first amplifier a bandpass filter an attenuator and a second amplifier. The first amplifier can provide amplified signals based on the received signals. The bandpass filter is arranged to pass filtered signals within a first portion of the frequency band wherein the filtered signals are based on the amplified signals. The attenuator is arranged in parallel with the bandpass filter and is operable to attenuate signals within a second portion of the frequency band wherein the attenuated signals are based on the amplified signals. The second amplifier can provide an amplified output including first amplified signals within the first portion of the frequency band and can second amplified signals within the second portion of the frequency band. The first amplified signals have a first gain whereas the second amplified signals have a second gain. The first gain is more than the second gain.

Additional objects advantages and novel features of the invention are set forth in part in the description which follows and in part will become apparent to those skilled in the art upon examination of the following or may be learned by practice of the invention. The objects and advantages of the invention may be realized and attained by means of the instrumentalities and combinations particularly pointed out in the appended claims.

The International Maritime Organization IMO requires designated commercial and other vessels to carry and use Automatic Identification System AIS transponder receiver sets to broadcast critical own ship data for the purpose of providing safety of ship situational awareness to all vessels transiting in a given area. For example vessels carrying a Class A AIS unit broadcast the following information every 2 to 10 seconds while underway less often while at anchor a unique MMSI ID number navigation status latitude and longitude coordinates to 1 10000 minute position accuracy rate of turn course and speed over ground true heading and UTC time stamp. More descriptive ship data e.g. vessel call sign cargo ship type etc. is transmitted every 6 minutes. Vessels in the area equipped with AIS hardware can receive this data transmitted at a frequency of approximately 162 MHz from other ships in their area and display it on an electronic geographic display or Geographic Information System GIS display that resembles a bird s eye view radar plot.

In accordance with an aspect of the present invention a submerged submersible vehicle can access AIS data transmitted by vessels in the area by any known manner non limiting examples of which include by way of a buoy or BCA. The submerged submersible vehicle will effectively have access to an artificial constellation of GPS satellites since the exact GPS position of each vessel or satellite is known with certainty.

The submerged submersible vehicle may then determine the bearing of each vessel by any known manner a non limiting example of which includes sonar. For example assuming the submerged submersible vehicle s sonar operators can correlate these vessels with a specific sonar contact for example by using standard submersible vehicle sonar classification techniques the bearing to each vessel can be determined. If bearings of at least two correlated sonar contacts are available the calculated geodetic position which is based on the bearings to the vessels and their geodetic position and which is where the sonar bearings cross is the submerged submersible vehicle s real time position. If AIS information for only one vessel is known and that information can be correlated to real time sonar bearings it is possible to use standard submersible vehicle target motion analysis TMA equations and techniques along with own ship speed and course data to calculate the submerged submersible vehicle s position.

The benefit of the system and method of the present invention over conventional position fix taking techniques discussed above with reference to is that the calculated position for the submerged submersible vehicle is independent of the position of the sensor used to collect the AIS information and is available while submerged. Moreover the submerged submersible vehicle can continue to calculate GPS level fix positions for itself as long as the submersible vehicle receives valid AIS data from vessels in the area and the sonar bearings to those vessels are known.

Conventional submersible vehicle antenna amplifier subsystems are not capable of conveying received AIS signals to a submersible vehicle in a manner in which the receiving equipment can process it correctly. In accordance with another aspect of the present invention an inline amplifier increases the amplification of the frequency band for AIS while retaining the conventional gain of all other frequency bands that are not AIS.

As illustrated in submerged submersible vehicle is under sea surface a ship and a ship are at sea surface and GPS satellite and GPS satellite are in orbit above ship and ship . Submerged submersible vehicle includes a BCA a processing system and a sonar system . BCA includes a transmission cable portion and an inline amplifier . Ship includes an antenna and an antenna whereas ship includes an antenna and an antenna .

Ship receives radio signal and radio signal via antenna . Ship is then able to determine its position on Earth by standard GPS techniques. This process occurs approximately once per second so Ship constantly knows its real time geodetic position. ship broadcasts its position velocity and course information formatted for AIS via radio signal through antenna every 2 10 seconds as scheduled by AIS network.

Ship receives radio signal and radio signal via antenna . Ship is then able to determine its position on Earth by standard GPS techniques Ship broadcasts its position course and velocity information formatted for AIS via radio signal through antenna every 2 10 seconds as scheduled by AIS network.

Ship receives radio signal formatted for AIS and is able to determine the location velocity and course of ship . Similarly ship receives radio signal formatted for AIS and is able to determine the location velocity and course of ship .

Sonar system is operable to acoustically locate targets relative to submerged submersible vehicle . BCA is operable to receive radio signal from ship and to receive radio signal from ship . Processing system is operable to process information retrieved with sonar system radio signal and radio signal to accurately determine the location of submerged submersible vehicle as will now be described in greater detail.

Noise from ship such as produced by the engine and or propeller produces a sound wave . Using sonar system submerged submersible vehicle detects the presence and bearing of ship with sound wave . Noise from ship such as produced by the engine and or propeller produces a sound wave . Using sonar system submerged submersible vehicle detects the presence and bearing of ship with sound wave .

Processing system uses the bearing developed from the sonar information from sound wave that was received by sonar system in conjunction with position information of ship received in the AIS information in radio signal that was received by BCA to determine a geodetic line of position of submerged submersible vehicle . Processing system uses the bearing developed from the sonar information from sound wave that was received by sonar system in conjunction with position information of ship received in the AIS information in radio signal which was received by BCA to additionally determine a second geodetic line of position of submerged submersible vehicle .

Using the combined sonar and AIS information received and for ship and ship submerged submersible vehicle is able to accurately determine its own location as the intersection of the two or more geodetic lines of position. In accordance with this aspect of the present invention the distance between the end of BCA and submerged submersible vehicle as denoted by separation is not a detracting factor as is the case in the conventional system discussed above with respect to . In particular in accordance with this aspect of the present invention the location of BCA with respect to submerged submersible vehicle is not a relevant factor because it has no relation to the sonar information received by sonar system from sound wave and from sound wave . Further the location of BCA with respect to submerged submersible vehicle is not a relevant factor because it does not affect reception of the AIS information in radio signal and the AIS information in radio signal . The sonar information received from sound wave the sonar information received from sound wave the AIS information in radio signal and the AIS information in radio signal will be the same regardless of the location of BCA with respect to submerged submersible vehicle .

As described previously with respect to submerged submersible vehicle is able to receive AIS information broadcast by ship and ship . Accordingly submerged submersible vehicle will know location course and velocity of each of ship and ship . Using the sonar information for ship submerged submersible vehicle is able to determine a bearing of ship relative to submerged submersible vehicle . Using the sonar information for ship submerged submersible vehicle is able to determine a bearing of ship relative to submerged submersible vehicle . The location of submerged submersible vehicle is at a point where bearing and bearing intersect.

There may be situations in which a submerged submersible vehicle may only receive AIS information that is broadcast from a single ship. In such cases the submerged submersible vehicle will be unable to accurately determine its position using the example method discussed above with reference to . Another example method for calculating the location of a submersible vehicle using the sonar and AIS information from a single ship in accordance with an aspect of the present invention will now be described with reference to .

As illustrated in the figure point represents the latitude and longitude location of a ship at a first time T point represents the latitude and longitude location of a submerged submersible vehicle at time T point represents the latitude and longitude location of the ship at a second time T and point represents the latitude and longitude location of the submerged submersible vehicle at time T. At time T the ship at point is separated from the submerged submersible vehicle at point by a range R. At time T the ship at point is separated from the submerged submersible vehicle at point by a range R. At time T the ship at point is traveling at a velocity and course Vindicated by arrow whereas the submerged submersible vehicle at point is traveling at a velocity and course Vindicated by arrow . Similarly at time T the ship at point is traveling at a velocity and course Vindicated by arrow whereas the submerged submersible vehicle at point is traveling at a velocity and course Vindicated by arrow . Dotted line represents the bearing B measured in degrees of the ship from the submerged submersible vehicle at time T whereas dotted line represents the bearing Bof the ship from the submerged submersible vehicle at time T.

The ship will broadcast its position velocity and course in accordance with AIS protocol. In accordance with an aspect of the present invention the submersible vehicle will then know point i.e. the latitude and longitude location of the ship at time T point i.e. the latitude and longitude location of the ship at a second time T the velocity and course of the ship at T i.e. Vindicated by arrow and the velocity and course of the ship at T i.e. Vindicated by arrow . Further by using a sonar system the submersible vehicle may determine the bearing Bof the ship from the submerged submersible vehicle at time T i.e. dotted line and the bearing Bof the ship from the submerged submersible vehicle at time T i.e. dotted line . In accordance with an aspect of the present invention the submerged submersible vehicle may accurately determine its own location using the known parameters V V and latitude and longitude location of the ship at time T and the determined parameters Band B.

Range Rcan be calculated as 3 where k is a constant 1 934 when range Ris measured in yards and is a constant 1 when range Rmeasured in nautical miles and where is the relative speed of the ship in knots as compared to the submerged submersible vehicle across bearing B. With reference to the component of Vthat is perpendicular to bearing Bis subtracted from the component of Vthat is perpendicular to bearing Bto determine .

Using Band Bas determined at times Tand T respectively for example as determined using a sonar system in accordance with the present invention the submerged submersible vehicle may calculate the change in the bearing AB using equation 2 above.

Then using V as provided in the AIS information broadcast from the ship at time T the submerged submersible vehicle may calculate the component of Vthat is perpendicular to bearing B. Then using the known velocity and course of the submersible vehicle V at time T the submerged submersible vehicle may calculate the component of Vthat is perpendicular to bearing B. At this point the submerged submersible vehicle may determine . The submerged submersible vehicle may then calculate range Rusing equation 3 .

There may be instances where Bis very close to B such as for example if the ship and the submerged submersible vehicle are traveling at the same velocity and course perpendicular to bearing Band B. In such a case using equation 2 the change in bearing B approaches or equals zero. In such a case Rwill approach infinity using equation 3 . To prevent such unusable data the submerged submersible vehicle may alter its course such that it will not have the same velocity and course perpendicular to bearing Band Bas the ship. This will create a change in bearing B that increases from zero thus providing usable data.

Location of the ship at time Tis known by the submerged submersible vehicle from received AIS information bearing B represented by dashed arrow has been determined by the submerged submersible vehicle using sonar and range Rhas been calculated by the submerged submersible vehicle using equation 3 . The submerged submersible vehicle may then accurately determine its own location as a point at a distance Rin the direction reciprocal to B B 180 from the geodetic location of the ship at time T.

An example method for calculating the location of a submersible vehicle using sonar and AIS information in accordance with an aspect of the present invention will now be described with reference to .

As illustrated in the figure method starts S and the submerged submersible vehicle receives AIS information from nearby ship s S . As discussed for example with reference to BCA receives AIS information within radio signal from ship and radio signal from ship .

In the case where AIS information is received from multiple ships then the submerged submersible vehicle retrieves sonar information for each ship S . As discussed for example with reference to sonar system receives sound wave from ship and sound wave from ship and generates sonar information related ship and ship respectively.

At this point submerged submersible vehicle associates the sonar information with the received AIS information S . As discussed for example with reference to the AIS information within radio signal includes the location velocity and course of ship and the AIS information within radio signal includes the location velocity and course of ship . Processing system compares the locations and velocities of ship and to distinguish which ship and therefore which location is associated with which sonar information.

The submersible vehicle then determines the location of the ships using the AIS information S . As discussed for example with reference to the AIS information within radio signal includes the location ship and the AIS information within radio signal includes the location ship . Having associated ship with the sonar information of sound wave processing system can determine the submersible vehicle s geodetic line of position associated with ship . Having associated ship with the sonar information of sound wave processing system can determine the submersible vehicle s geodetic line of position associated with ship .

The submersible vehicle then determines the location of itself S . Referring to location of the submerged submersible vehicle is at the intersection of line of position from ship and line of position from ship . Processing system now knows bearing from sonar information of sound wave bearing from sonar information of sound wave the location of ship from AIS information of radio wave the location of ship from AIS information of radio wave . Processing system may then accurately determine location of the submerged submersible vehicle.

It is then determined whether processing system is still operating to determine the location of the submerged submersible vehicle S . If processing system is not operating to determine the location of the submerged submersible vehicle method stops S . If processing system is still operating to determine the location of the submerged submersible vehicle then the submersible vehicle again receives AIS information S .

Returning to the determination as to whether the AIS information is received from multiple ships S in the case where AIS information is received from a single ship then the submerged submersible vehicle retrieves sonar information for the single ship S . As discussed for example with reference to sonar system receives a sound wave from a ship and generates sonar information related to the ship to identify bearing .

The AIS information is then associated with the determined bearing S . For example processing system may associate the location of point with determined bearing .

Then the submerged submersible vehicle retrieves new sonar information and new AIS information for the single ship S . As discussed for example with reference to at time T the ship has moved to a second location at point whereas the submerged submersible vehicle has moved to a second location at point . At time T sonar system receives a second sound wave from the ship and generates second sonar information related to the ship to identify bearing .

The location information within the AIS information is then associated with the new determined bearing S . For example processing system may associate the location of point with determined bearing .

The new velocity course and location of the ship is then determined S . The new velocity course and location of the ship at point is known from the newly received AIS information.

The new velocity and course of the submerged submersible vehicle is then determined S . The new velocity and course of the submerged submersible vehicle at point is known by the submerged submersible vehicle.

The location of the submerged submersible vehicle is then determined S . As discussed above with reference to location of the ship at time Tis known by the submerged submersible vehicle as described in step S bearing B represented by dashed arrow has been determined by the submerged submersible vehicle using sonar as described in step S and range Rhas been calculated by the submerged submersible vehicle using equation 3 . The submerged submersible vehicle may then accurately determine its own location as a point at a distance Rin the direction reciprocal to B B 180 from the geodetic location of the ship at time T.

It is then determined whether processing system is still operating to determine the location of the submerged submersible vehicle S . If processing system is not operating to determine the location of the submerged submersible vehicle method stops S . If processing system is still operating to determine the location of the submerged submersible vehicle then the submersible vehicle again receives AIS information S .

In accordance with an aspect of the present invention a submerged submersible vehicle is able to determine its own location based on AIS information that is broadcast from a ship in conjunction with a bearing of the ship with reference to the submerged submersible vehicle. As such the submerged submersible vehicle must be able to receive the AIS information that is broadcast from the ship.

The amplification and filtering provided by BCA employing the conventional inline amplifier discussed above with reference to is not sufficient to overcome the losses of transmission cable portion in order to enable received AIS signals to be processed by submersible vehicle . Submerged submersible vehicles use the BCA to receive broadband signals in the VLF through VHF bands. An amplifier that amplifies only a band in the vicinity of AIS signals would eliminate the submersible vehicle s ability to receive the other required broadband signals. Addition of another gain stage to conventional inline amplifier would saturate the receiving equipment used for the other broadband signals. What is needed is an amplifier that provides a certain amount of gain to broadband signals and increased gain in a desired band AIS in this embodiment . This will be discussed in greater detail below with reference to .

As illustrated in the figure desired RF band is bounded by a lower frequency cutoff and an upper frequency cutoff . RF band is the frequency content of the signals transmitted by desired transmitters including AIS. Lower frequency cutoff is located at 156 MHz whereas upper frequency cutoff is located at 163 MHz.

As illustrated in the figures some signals within a band have larger amplitudes than RF noise . Due to attenuation in the transmission line higher frequency signals including the desired band AIS are not above the RF noise. Accordingly lower frequency signals within band may be differentiated from RF noise and may be processed. However signals within desired RF band are not above RF noise . Accordingly signals within desired RF band may not be differentiated from RF noise and may not be processed.

RF noise is present at all frequencies and is amplified along with signals of interest at those frequencies. Adding more amplification to inline amplifier as discussed above with reference to would amplify all noise in received signal . This would overdrive inline amplifier and overwhelm all signals of interest.

As illustrated in the figure inline amplifier includes an amplifier a bandpass filter a broadband attenuator a combiner an amplifier a gain compensation filter an amplifier and a bias tee .

Amplifier is arranged to receive input signal and to output an amplified signal . Bandpass filter is arranged to receive amplified signal and to output a filtered signal . Broadband attenuator is arranged to receive amplified signal and to output an attenuated signal . Combiner is arranged to receive filtered signal and attenuated signal and to output a combined signal . Amplifier is arranged to receive combined signal and to output an amplified signal . Gain compensation filter is arranged to receive amplified signal and to output a filtered signal . Amplifier is arranged to receive filtered signal and to output an amplified signal . Bias tee is arranged to receive amplified signal and to output an output signal .

Inline amplifier provides amplification of signals within the desired AIS band at greater amplification than other signals outside of the desired band in order to be able to allow processing and reception of AIS signals and still provide the required amplification to the other broadband signals. In operation amplifier amplifies input signal . In an example embodiment amplifier amplifies input signal by 30 dB.

Bandpass filter filters amplified signal to pass only those signals within a band in the vicinity of AIS approximately 156 MHz to 163 MHz. Broadband attenuator concurrently attenuates amplified signal to limit the amplified RF noise in the parts of the band that do not require the additional gain the desired band requires. In an example embodiment broadband attenuator attenuates amplified signal by 33 dB.

Combiner combines filtered signal and attenuated signal . This provides a signal that is preferentially stronger in the band of interest approximately 156 163 MHz Amplifier amplifies combined signal . In an example embodiment amplifier amplifies combines signal by 30 dB.

Gain compensation filter compensates for signal attenuation characteristics of the transmission cable connected between output of inline amplifier and the submersible vehicle. Gain compensation filter has a transfer function that provides an incremental increase in amplification for signals within a band of 2 MHz up through the AIS band. This again limits the amplified RF noise in the lower parts of the band that do not require as much amplification to overcome transmission line losses.

Amplifier amplifies filtered signal . In an example embodiment amplifier amplifies filtered signal by 30 dB.

Bias tee separates a DC bias from the submersible vehicle from amplified signal and provides it to the amplifiers. The total signal on the transmission line carrying output signal comprises the combination of amplified signal from inline amplifier to the submersible vehicle and a DC bias signal from submersible vehicle to inline amplifier .

As illustrated in frequency band includes frequency band at preferentially higher gain. This enables the desired AIS band to be above the RF noise and AIS signals may be processed.

Aspects in accordance with the present invention enable a submerged submersible vehicle to accurately determine its location using sonar and AIS information. In accordance with one aspect of the present invention AIS information broadcast by nearby ships is used by a submerged submersible vehicle to determine the location velocity and course of the ships. In one embodiment AIS information received from at least two ships is used in conjunction with sonar information related to the ships to determine the submerged submersible vehicle s location. In another embodiment AIS information and sonar information received from one ship at multiples times is used to determine the submerged submersible vehicle s location.

In accordance with another aspect of the present invention an inline amplifier for use in a BCA enables a submersible vehicle to receive AIS signals broadcast from nearby ships. The amplification of the received signals overcomes the attenuation caused by the transmission cable connecting the amplifier to the submersible vehicle. The amplifier receives AIS signals along with other signals and noise. The signals located in the AIS frequency band are amplified more than other signals and noise outside the AIS frequency band is attenuated. The selective amplification of the AIS frequency band amplifies the signals to a level at which they can be processed by AIS receiving equipment. The selective amplification of the AIS frequency band along with the lesser amplification of the other signals prevents the other signals from being amplified too much and saturating the receiving equipment used for processing the other signals and allows the required amplification of all the signals by not overdriving the output stage of inline amplifier .

The example embodiments discussed above use a sonar system to determine a bearing of a ship with reference to the submersible vehicle. However in accordance with aspects of the present invention any known method of obtaining a bearing of a ship with reference to the submersible vehicle may be used.

The example embodiments discussed above use a BCA to retrieve AIS information to determine a ship s geodetic location. However in accordance with aspects of the present invention any known method of obtaining a geodetic location of a ship may be used.

The foregoing description of various preferred embodiments of the invention have been presented for purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed and obviously many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teaching. The exemplary embodiments as described above were chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the invention and its practical application to thereby enable others skilled in the art to best utilize the invention in various embodiments and with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated. It is intended that the scope of the invention be defined by the claims appended hereto.

