---

title: Virtual gift card
abstract: A virtual gift credit system that automatically attaches gift credit to a payment account or vehicle of the gift recipient upon issuance of the gift credit is herein described. By attaching the gift credit amount to the recipient's payment account, subsequent purchases made using the payment account, and of the type associated with the gift credit, are automatically settled by applying the gift credit amount to the purchase amount. Further, the invention does not require gift recipients to share confidential account information with gift providers in order for the gift providers to bestow gift credit upon the gift recipients. Through the use of aliases, which serve to tie an identifier, such as a gift recipient's telephone number, email address or the like to a gift recipient's payment account, the invention does not require that the gift provider know any information about the financial accounts of the intended gift recipient.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08566169&OS=08566169&RS=08566169
owner: Bank of America Corporation
number: 08566169
owner_city: Charlotte
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120101
---
The present Application for Patent claims priority to Provisional Application No. 61 508 410 entitled Virtual Gift Card filed Jul. 15 2011 and assigned to the assignee hereof and hereby expressly incorporated by reference herein.

In general embodiments herein disclosed relate to commerce and more specifically providing virtual gift credit that automatically attaches to a gift recipient s payment account upon determination that an alias provided by the gift provider is registered with the payment account.

Most merchants have replaced traditional gift certificates with gift cards which are credit card like in design and allow for the merchant to program the magnetic strip in the amount that the gift providing customer desires. In the online realm merchants provide gift credit in the form of gift codes which upon purchase may be electronically communicated via email or the like to the gift recipient.

In either instance the gift recipient must remember to bring the gift card to the merchant or remember the gift code or location of the gift code when redeeming the credit towards a subsequent purchase. In many instances the recipient of a gift card may forget to bring the card with them to the associated merchant or otherwise forget that they have an outstanding gift card for that particular merchant. Likewise the recipient of a gift code may be unable to locate the gift code or may have deleted the gift code communication prior to redeeming the gift code.

Therefore a need exists to develop systems methods computer program products and the like that allows for gift providing customers to gift credit to a gift recipient such that upon receipt of the credit the gift recipient can ostensibly forget that they have the credit yet subsequently have the credit automatically applied towards future purchases. In effect the desired invention eliminates the need for the gift recipient to remember to bring a gift card or gift code to a merchant and moreover allows the gift recipient to redeem the credit even if they forget that they have the gift credit.

The following presents a simplified summary of one or more embodiments in order to provide a basic understanding of such embodiments. This summary is not an extensive overview of all contemplated embodiments and is intended to neither identify key or critical elements of all embodiments nor delineate the scope of any or all embodiments. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts of one or more embodiments in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later

Embodiments of the present invention describe an innovative virtual gift credit system that provides for gift credit to be automatically attached to a payment account or vehicle of the gift recipient upon issuance of the gift credit. By attaching the gift credit amount to the recipient s payment account vehicle subsequent purchases made using the payment account vehicle and of the type associated with the gift credit e.g. purchases at the specified merchant associated with the gift credit are automatically settled by applying the gift credit amount to the purchase amount. As such the present system insures that the gift credit will be used by the gift recipient even if the gift recipient forgets that they are possession of the gift credit.

Additionally embodiments of the present invention do not require gift recipients to share confidential account information with gift providers in order for the gift providers to bestow gift credit upon the gift recipients. In fact through the use of aliases which serve to tie an identifier such as a gift recipient s telephone number email address or the like to a gift recipient s payment account vehicle embodiments of the invention do not require that the gift provider know any information about the financial accounts of the intended gift recipient.

A method for providing virtual gift credit defines first embodiments of the invention. The method includes receiving gift credit instructions that include a gift credit type gift credit amount and an alias associated with a gift recipient. The method further includes determining that the alias is registered with a payment account associated with the gift recipient and attaching the gift credit amount to the payment account based on determination that the alias is registered with the payment account. In further specific embodiments the method includes automatically applying the gift credit amount to a purchase made against the payment account based on the purchase being associated with the gift card type.

A system for providing virtual credit defines second embodiments of the invention. The system includes a computer apparatus including a processor and a memory. The system additionally includes a virtual gift module stored in the memory executable by the processor and configured to receive gift credit instructions that include gift credit type gift credit amount and alias associated with a gift recipient. The system further includes a gift recipient account determination module stored in the memory executable by the processor and configured to determine that the alias is registered with a payment account associated with the gift recipient. In addition the system includes a gift credit attachment module stored in the memory executable by the processor and configured to attach the gift credit amount to the payment account based on determination that the alias is registered with the payment account. In additional embodiments of the system upon attachment the gift credit amount is configured to be automatically applied to a purchase made against the payment account based on the purchase being associated with the gift card type.

A computer program product for virtual gift credit defines third embodiments of the invention. The computer program product includes a non transitory computer readable medium having computer executable instructions. The instructions provide for receiving gift credit instructions that include a gift credit type gift credit amount and an alias associated with a gift recipient. Additionally the instructions provide for determining that the alias is registered with a payment account associated with the gift recipient. In addition the instructions provide for attaching the gift credit amount to the payment account based on determination that the alias is registered with the payment account. In additional embodiments of the computer program product the instructions provide for automatically applying the gift credit amount to a purchase made against the payment account based on the purchase being associated with the gift card type.

Thus present embodiments of the invention which are discussed in greater detail below provide for systems methods and computer program products for establishing virtual gift credit. The gift credit is automatically attached to a payment account or vehicle of the gift recipient upon issuance of the gift credit. As such subsequent purchases made by the gift recipient using the payment account and of the designated gift credit type can be automatically settled using the gift credit amount. Additionally through the use of aliases which serve to tie an identifier such as a gift recipient s telephone number email address or the like to a gift recipient s payment account vehicle embodiments of the invention simplify the process of electronic gift credit giving in that the gift provider does not need to have knowledge of any information about the financial accounts of the intended gift recipient.

The features functions and advantages that have been discussed may be achieved independently in various embodiments of the present invention or may be combined with yet other embodiments further details of which can be seen with reference to the following description and drawings.

Embodiments of the present invention will now be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which some but not all embodiments of the invention are shown. Indeed the invention may be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will satisfy applicable legal requirements. Where possible any terms expressed in the singular form herein are meant to also include the plural form and vice versa unless explicitly stated otherwise. Also as used herein the term a and or an shall mean one or more even though the phrase one or more is also used herein. Furthermore when it is said herein that something is based on something else it may be based on one or more other things as well. In other words unless expressly indicated otherwise as used herein based on means based at least in part on or based at least partially on. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout.

In accordance with embodiments of the invention the terms financial institution or financial entity include any organization that processes financial transactions including but not limited to banks credit unions savings and loan associations investment companies stock brokerages asset management firms insurance companies and the like. In specific embodiments of the invention use of the term bank is limited to a financial entity in which account bearing customers conduct financial transactions such as account deposits withdrawals transfers and the like.

Embodiments of the present invention describe an innovative virtual gift credit system that provides for gift credit to be automatically attached to a payment account or vehicle of the gift recipient upon issuance of the gift credit. By attaching the gift credit amount to the recipient s payment account vehicle subsequent purchases made using the payment account vehicle and of the type associated with the gift credit e.g. purchases at the specified merchant associated with the gift credit are automatically settled by applying the gift credit amount to the purchase amount. As such the present system insures that the gift credit will be used by the gift recipient even if the gift recipient forgets that they are possession of the gift credit.

Additionally the present invention does not necessarily require gift recipients to share confidential account information with gift providers in order for the gift providers to bestow gift credit upon the gift recipients. In fact through the use of aliases which serve to tie an identifier such as a gift recipient s telephone number email address or the like to a gift recipient s payment account vehicle embodiments of the invention do not require that the gift provider know any information about the financial accounts of the intended gift recipient.

Referring to a block diagram is depicted of an apparatus configured to virtual gift credit in accordance with embodiments of the invention. The apparatus includes a computing platform having a memory and at least one processor in communication with the memory. The apparatus may include any type and or combination of one or more computing devices such as servers personal computers or the like. The computing platform is operable to receive and execute modules routines and applications such as virtual gift module gift recipient determination module gift credit attachment module and the like. Memory may comprise volatile and nonvolatile memory such as read only and or random access memory RAM and ROM EPROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computing platforms. Further memory may include one or more flash memory cells or may be any secondary or tertiary storage device such as magnetic media optical media tape or soft or hard disk.

Further computing platform also includes processor which may be an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other chipset processor logic circuit or other data processing device. Processor or other processor such as ASIC may execute an application programming interface API layer not shown in that interfaces with any resident programs such as virtual gift module gift recipient determination module gift credit attachment module or the like stored in the memory of apparatus . Processor may include various processing subsystems not shown in embodied in hardware firmware software and combinations thereof that enable the functionality of apparatus and the operability of the apparatus on a network. For example processing subsystems allow for initiating and maintaining communications and exchanging data with other networked devices. It should be noted that any of the modules sub modules and routines shown and described as being stored in memory may alternatively be embodied in processing subsystems.

The memory of apparatus stores virtual gift credit module that is configured to receive virtual gift credit instructions from a gift provider or someone acting on behalf of the gift provider. In specific embodiments as discussed in detail below in relation to the virtual gift credit module provides for an Internet based online virtual gift credit portal and or a mobile application in which gift credit providers customers can access to purchase virtual gift credit. The virtual gift credit instructions include at a minimum the gift credit type the gift credit amount and an alias associated with a credit recipient alias. In most embodiments the gift credit instructions may also include a gift credit payment account identifier .

The gift credit type which may be chosen by the gift provider customer defines the specificity of the use of the credit. For example the module may be configured to allow for gift credit types that are specific to a designated merchant such as a retailer a restaurant a restaurant chain or the like. In other embodiments the module may be configured to allow for gift credit types defined by a type of designated merchants such as all food sources all restaurants or type of product or service such as household items spa services or the like. While in other embodiments of the invention the module may be configured to allow for generic gift credit such as general credit applicable to any merchant that accepts conventional credit means. In specific embodiments the module may be configured such that the gift credit provider may tailor the gift credit instructions such that that gift credit type is gift provider specific. For example the gift provider may designate that the credit only apply to specific types of products e.g. food specific merchants or the like and or exclude specific types of products e.g. alcohol tobacco specific merchants or the like. In addition the module may provide for the gift credit provider to tailor gift credit instructions such that the gift credit type is limited to use in a specific geographic region limited to use during a designated time of the day week month or year or the like.

The gift credit amount is typically at the discretion of the gift provider customer. However in certain embodiments the module may be configured and or the merchants may designate a minimum and or maximum gift credit amount.

The gift credit payment account identifier may be a credit card number or debit card number of the credit provider or the like. In instances in which the virtual gift credit is pre paid or paid means other than a payment account e.g. a cash payment the need for receiving the payment account identifier may be obviated.

The credit recipient alias is instrumental to the present invention in that it allows for the gift credit provider customer to provide the alias in lieu of providing gift recipient financial account information i.e. account number routing number and the like. In present embodiments of the invention the alias is typically a telephone number specifically a mobile telephone number or an email address of the credit recipient. Since the telephone number or email address of the gift credit recipient is either readily remembered by the gift provider or easily accessible to the gift provider e.g. stored on or accessible to the gift provider s mobile communication device . In addition in the event that the gift recipient has not registered an alias or has not registered the alias provided by the gift provider the telephone number and or email address provide for a means of communicating with the gift recipient to notify the gift recipient of the need to register an alias. However in other embodiments the gift credit recipient may designate other aliases besides or in addition to telephone numbers and or email addresses such as but not limited to birthdates usernames passcodes or the like.

The memory of apparatus additionally includes gift recipient account determination module configured to determine that the credit recipient alias included in the gift credit instructions is registered with a payment account instrument of the credit recipient. As such the module will communicate with an alias data repository to determine the payment account instrument of the gift recipient to which the alias is registered. In the event that a determination is made that the credit recipient has not registered the alias with a corresponding payment account instrument a notification may be sent to the credit recipient asking them to access their financial institution e.g. online access mobile banking application or the like for the purpose of receiving the gift credit i.e. attaching the gift credit to a payment account instrument and or registering the alias to a payment account instrument . The notification can be sent to the gift recipient by a system configured or gift recipient configured means such as but not limited to one or more of a text SMS message a voice mail an email social network site posting and or the like. In the event that the gift recipient ignores the notification or the gift recipient is otherwise unreachable i.e. the alias provided by the gift provider does not identify a communication means and therefore does not access their financial institution to attach the gift credit to a payment account after a predetermined period of time a notification may be sent to the gift provider customer cancelling the gift credit and returning the payment amount to the gift provider e.g. crediting the payment account used by gift provider when purchasing the gift credit.

Additionally the memory of apparatus includes gift credit attachment module which is configured to attach the gift credit amount to the payment account instrument determined to be registered with the alias provided by the gift provider or as registered by the gift recipient upon notification of non registration. The payment account instrument may be a credit account a debit account a prepaid credit account a line of credit account a mortgage account a loan account checking DDA account or the like. Once the gift credit amount has been attached to the payment account meaning a credit in the amount of the gift credit is applied to the payment account the gift recipient may be notified typically through text SMS email or the like that they have received a gift credit from the gift provider. The notification may include the gift credit type the gift credit amount the payment account instrument to which the credit is attached and optionally a personalized message from the gift provider. In specific embodiments of the invention as discussed in detail in relation to the apparatus system may be further configured to allow the gift recipient to change the payment account instrument to which the gift amount is attached and or convert the credit type e.g. convert the use of the credit from the designated merchant to a merchant of choice convert the use of the credit from the designated merchant to general use credit or convert the credit to cash etc. .

As previously noted once the gift credit has been attached to the payment account any subsequent purchase of the designated credit type will apply the gift credit toward the settlement of that purchase. In this regard the gift recipient does not need to take an overt action to apply the credit to the purchase nor does the gift recipient need to be aware that the gift credit exists on the payment account. For example if the gift recipient makes a 100.00 purchase at the merchant designated for the gift credit and has an attached 50.00 gift credit the purchase transaction will be for the 100.00 amount and the settlement of the transaction will apply the 50.00 gift credit to the transaction amount i.e. the gift recipient will only owe the remaining 50.00 to complete settlement of the transaction . As a means of notifying the gift recipient that the gift credit is being applied a notification stating such may be sent to the gift recipient in close proximity to the completion of the transaction typically via text SMS email or the like.

The virtual gift credit system also includes personal computing devices and which are respectively associated with gift credit provider and gift credit recipient . Each personal computing device and may be any device that employs a processor and memory is configured to perform computing functions and can communicate upstream and downstream via wireless and or wired communication with communication network . As such personal computing devices and may be personal computers PCs portable laptop computers mobile communication devices e.g. smart phones personal digital assistant PDA a mobile Internet accessing device or the like or the like. The communication network may include a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN and or a global area network GAN . The network may provide for wireline wireless or a combination of wireline and wireless communication between devices in the network. In one embodiment the network includes the Internet.

Personal computing device is configured to communicate with network device which may be a server or the like and is configured to provide access to virtual gift credit module . For example in those embodiments in which the virtual gift credit module is an Internet accessible gift credit portal the gift credit provider can access the portal via their corresponding personal computing device . In alternate embodiments the virtual gift credit module may be a downloadable application executable on the gift credit provider s personal computing device such as a smart phone or the like. In other alternate embodiments in which the virtual gift credit module is accessible via an online banking site or some other entities web site the gift credit provider may be required to log on to the website prior to accessing the virtual gift credit module . The virtual gift credit module is configured to allow the gift credit provider to enter gift credit instructions to initiate the gift crediting process. As previously noted the gift credit instructions include at a minimum the gift credit type the gift credit amount and the alias associated with the gift credit recipient and in some embodiments payment account identifier .

Once the gift credit provider has properly submitted the required gift credit instructions the alias is communicated via network to alias data repository to verify determine that the alias is associated with a payment account instrument of the intended gift credit recipient. In some embodiments of the invention the alias data repository is configured to be controlled and managed by one or more third party data providers not shown in over the network . In other embodiments the alias data repository is configured to be controlled and managed over the network by the same entity that maintains the virtual gift credit system such as a financial institution or the like. In still other embodiments the alias data repository may be configured as a component of an online banking system.

If the alias is not verified as being associated with a payment account instrument of the intended gift credit recipient a communication is sent to the gift credit recipient via the network or some other network such as a cellular network or the like requesting that the gift credit recipient register the alias with a payment account instrument at their respective financial institution if their respective financial institution participates in the payment alias program or if their respective financial institution does not participate in the payment alias program opening an account and registering the alias with a participating financial institution.

If the alias is registered with a payment account instrument or once the gift credit recipient registers the alias with a payment account instrument the virtual gift credit module communicates with network device to attach the gift credit amount to the payment account of the gift credit recipient . In this regard network device may be a financial institution server or the like in the control of the gift credit provider s financial institution. In specific embodiments once the gift credit amount is attached a notification is communicated to the gift credit recipient via personal computing device notifying the recipient of the gift credit attachment and optional any personalized note provided by the gift credit provider .

Referring to a flow diagram is provided of a method for providing virtual gift credit in accordance with embodiments of the present invention. At Event gift credit instructions are received that include at a minimum a gift credit type a gift credit amount and an alias associated with the gift credit recipient. In accordance with specific embodiments the gift credit instructions may be received through implementation of a gift credit web portal or the like an example of which is shown and described in relation to .

At Event once the gift credit instructions have been received a determination is made that the alias is registered with a payment account instrument of the intended gift card recipient. Determination is accomplished by communicating the alias to an alias data repository or the like to verify that a match exists between the alias and a payment account. If the alias is not currently registered with the gift credit recipient a notification may be sent to the intended gift credit recipient requesting that they register the alias with a payment account or otherwise provide for associating the gift credit with a payment account.

Once the alias is determined to be registered with a payment account instrument of the intended gift credit recipient at Event the gift credit amount is attached to the payment account associated registered with the alias. Once the gift credit amount is attached to the payment account a notification is communicated to the gift credit recipient notifying them of the gift credit and that the gift credit is ready to be redeemed for a purchase associated with the designated gift credit type i.e. a purchase at the merchant designated by the gift provider or the like .

Referring to a flow diagram is presented of a more detailed method for providing virtual gift credit in accordance with embodiments of the present invention. The detailed method of provides for various alternate optional embodiments of the present invention. At Event gift credit instructions are received that include at a minimum a gift credit type a gift credit amount and an alias associated with the gift credit recipient. In addition the received gift credit instructions may include a payment account identifier the name of the intended gift credit recipient a personalized message stating the reason for the gift credit and the like.

At Decision a determination is made as to whether the alias received in the gift credit instructions is registered with a payment account of the intended recipient. If a determination is made that the alias is not currently registered with a payment account instrument of the intended gift credit recipient at Event a notification is sent to the gift credit recipient requesting registration of the alias with a payment account instrument of the gift credit recipient. At Event the gift credit recipient accesses a financial institution such as an online banking service or mobile banking application to register the alias with a payment account. If the gift credit recipient s current financial institution does not participate in a peer t peer payment system the gift credit recipient may be required to open an account and register the alias at a financial institution different from their current financial institution. While not shown in the method of it should be noted that if the intended gift credit recipient does not receive a notification requesting registration of the alias or receives the notification and either ignores the notification or chooses not to register the alias upon lapse of a predetermined time period the gift credit will be terminated and a notification sent to the gift credit provider that the gift credit amount is being credited back to the gift credit provider s payment account or otherwise refunded to the gift credit provider.

If a determination is made that the alias is registered with a payment account instrument of the intended gift credit recipient Event or once the gift credit recipient access the financial institution and properly registers the alias with a payment account Event at Event the gift credit amount is attached to the payment amount instrument designated by the gift credit recipient. Once the gift credit amount has been attached to the gift credit recipient s payment account at Event a notification is sent to the gift recipient acknowledging receipt of the gift credit and including any personalized message from the gift credit provider.

At Decision if the gift credit system is configured for such a determination is made as to whether the gift credit recipient desires to change the payment account to which the gift credit is attached. For example the gift credit recipient may have preconfigured the system for attachment to a credit card account and currently desires to attach the gift credit to a debit card associated account. It should be noted that the decision to change the attached payment account may occur at any time in which the gift credit is outstanding for example shortly after receiving the gift credit or right before redemption of the gift credit. If the determination is made that the gift credit recipient desires to change the payment account at Event the gift credit recipient access the financial institution such as via an online or mobile banking application and attaches the gift credit amount to their preferred payment account instrument.

At Decision if the gift credit system is configured for such a determination is made as to whether the gift credit recipient desires to convert the gift credit type to an alternate gift credit type. For example the gift credit is designated by the gift credit provider for a specific restaurant and the gift credit recipient desires to change the credit to another restaurant merchant or in some embodiments to general credit. In other embodiments of the invention the system may allow for the gift credit recipient to convert the gift credit to a cash payout. In specific embodiments the system may allow for conversion of the gift credit type to another gift credit type or cash upon agreement to pay a fee associated with the conversion. In other specific embodiments in which the system provides for conversion the gift credit provider may configure the gift credit such that the gift credit type is not subject to conversion or otherwise limited to type of conversion i.e. the gift credit recipient must redeem the credit for the gift credit type designated by the gift credit provider or the gift credit recipient is limited to converting the gift credit to restaurant gift credit only . It should be noted that the decision to convert the gift credit type may occur at any time in which the gift credit is outstanding for example shortly after receiving the gift credit or right before redemption of the gift credit. As such while Decision is shown as occurring after the decision to change payment accounts it may in fact occur prior to or simultaneously with the decision to change payment accounts. If the gift credit recipient does desire to convert the gift credit amount at Event the gift credit recipient accesses the financial institution such as via online or mobile banking applications and converts the gift credit amount to their gift credit type of choice or to cash.

At Event the gift credit recipient conducts a transaction of the type associated with the gift credit type and using the payment account to which the gift credit is attached. It should be noted that according to specific embodiments the gift credit amount may be deducted from the transaction at the point of sale or in most instances the gift credit amount will subsequently be applied to settlement of the transaction. At Event a notification such as an a text SMS email or the like is sent to the gift credit recipient shortly after the completion of the transaction that acknowledges that the outstanding gift credit amount is being applied to the transaction amount. At Event the transaction is settled by applying the outstanding gift credit amount to the transaction amount.

Referring to a block diagram is shown that depicts an example of a gift credit portal for choosing various gift credit types in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. The portal which may be accessible via the Internet or some other communication network displays multiple tiles which represent the gift credit types e.g. specific retailers specific restaurants restaurant chains etc. that may be purchased for virtual gift crediting. The gift credit provider may page through multiple pages of tiles by activating the arrow key or performing some other use input activity e.g. scroll bar engagement to page or scroll through the tiles . The tiles may be arranged in any order desired by the system provider and or virtual gift card provider. For example the tiles may be presented in alphabetical order in order of most purchased gift credit type or the like. In one embodiment not shown in keys or another input mechanism may be provided for the gift credit provider to choose the order of the tiles from amongst various ordering selections. In another embodiment of the invention the system provider may charge the gift creditors i.e. retailers or the like a fee based on their desired order of presentation. For example first page presentation is charged a specified fee first line presentation on the first page is charged a slightly higher fee and the like.

The portal additional is configured to include a search entry input for entry of search criteria that defines the name or some other identifying feature of the gift creditor. For example the gift credit provider may enter a specific restaurant name and upon activating the search button if the specific restaurant is provided for in the gift credit system either the tile representing the restaurant is displayed or the gift credit instruction entry page corresponding to that specific restaurant is displayed. In other example the gift credit provider may enter a term that defines a category of gift card type for example restaurants and upon activation of the search button the system will return all of the restaurants in the system. In yet another example the gift credit provider may provide a physical address region e.g. city state or country or postal zip code and upon activation of the search button the system will return all of the gift credit types located in or proximate to the address region or zip code.

The gift credit provider may select a gift creditor by activating the corresponding tile on portal to display the gift credit instruction order entry page shown in . In alternate embodiments of the invention the gift credit instruction order entry page for a specific merchant retailer may be accessible via a link provided on the corresponding merchant retailer s web site a quick response QR code in an advertisement for the merchant retailer or the like. The gift credit instruction order entry page includes an identifier for the chosen gift credit type i.e. the name of the merchant retailer or the like. In addition the gift credit instruction order entry page includes gift credit amount identifier and corresponding gift credit amount entry fields configured for the gift credit provider to input the desired gift credit amount. As previously noted the system may provide for minimum or maximum amounts for gift credits. Additionally the amount may be entered in the gift provider s currency of choice and if the gift credit type i.e. retailer merchant is located in another country or the intended gift recipient is residing located in another country the gift credit notification to the recipient may reflect the other country s currency. In addition the gift card amount may be configured to be exchanged to the currency of the recipient or the currency accepted by the gift credit retailer at the time the gift credit is purchased or at the time of the credit applying transaction.

The also gift credit instruction order entry page also includes gift provider payment information identifier and corresponding entry fields and configured for the gift credit provider to input their payment information which in the illustrated embodiments include credit debit card number entry field and expiration date entry field .

The gift credit instruction order entry page additionally includes gift credit recipient name identifier and corresponding gift credit recipient name entry field configured for the gift credit provider to enter in the name of the gift credit recipient. The name of the gift credit recipient may be necessary to verify that the alias provided by the gift credit provider matches an alias that is in fact associated with the named gift credit recipient. Additionally gift credit instruction order entry page additionally includes gift credit recipient alias identifier and corresponding entry fields and configured for the gift credit provider to enter one or more alias associated with the intended gift credit recipient. In the illustrated embodiment of the the alias entry fields include telephone number entry field email address entry field and other recipient alias entry field for entry of any other alias that the gift credit recipient may have registered in the system. Entry of multiple known aliases may insure that one of the aliases entered is an alias registered by the gift credit recipient.

Optionally the gift credit instruction order entry page may include a message to gift recipient identifier and corresponding dialog entry field configured to allow the gift credit provider to personalize a message to the gift credit recipient that will either be included in the message notifying the recipient that the gift credit has been attached to their payment account or notifying the recipient that the alias requires registration. Additionally the gift credit instruction order entry page may include an attach song selection to message identifier and a corresponding drop down menu configured to provide the gift credit provider the option of attaching an audio song file to the personalized message such that the personalized message and attached audio song file acts as multimedia greeting card. In specific embodiments of the invention the gift credit system provider may charge the gift credit provider a nominal fee for inclusion of the song audio in the notification.

Moreover the gift credit instruction order entry page may include a preview gift credit recipient message button which upon activation presents the personalized message along with the selected song audio file if so chosen. In addition the gift credit instruction order entry page includes a place order button which upon activation by the gift card provider places the order for the gift card and begins the process of verifying the alias and attaching the gift credit to the payment account registered with the alias.

It should be noted that in alternate embodiments of the invention the virtual gift credit system may be configured such that the gift credit provider is not limited to selecting a gift creditor i.e. merchant retailer etc. that is affiliated with the gift card program. In such embodiments the gift card provider can choose any gift creditor i.e. merchant retailer etc. as long as the gift creditor accepts the payment account instrument to which the gift credit applies.

In additional embodiments the concept of virtual gift crediting may be expanded to include providing for budgeted credit in which the user of credit may predefine specific category or merchant spending limits for a predetermined time period and if the spending limits are exceeded the customer is either electronically notified of exceeding the spend threshold or denied from proceeding with the transaction. For example a credit user may desire to limit their expenditures at a specific coffee shop to a specified amount per month and if the user exceeds the specified amount during a month i.e. the user charges in excess of the specified amount the user is notified of exceeding the threshold via text message or the like or the transaction may be denied and or subsequent coffee shop transactions during that particular month are denied. Such budgeting of credit use may be highly applicable in the instance in which parents guardians provide their children minors with gift credit. The parents may configure the gift credit such that the child minor is restricted from using the credit for designated purchase types e.g. alcohol tobacco or designated merchants retailers or is limited by a spend amount over a designated time period for designated purchase types and or designated merchants.

In yet another expanded concept alias based government disbursements may be provided for in which citizens register an alias with a government controlled financial institution account and the alias is provided to the government for subsequent government disbursements. Such alias based government disbursements allows for the government to insure that all disbursements paid credited to an individual or family such as childcare benefits welfare benefits tax refunds social security benefits or the like are credited to a single financial institution account. In addition the government or other entity may have control over the designated account to which the funds benefits are distributed such as maximum withdrawal limits spend limits based on product and or merchant as well as the ability to track the individual or families spending from the designated account.

The information provided by the customer during registration of an alias may be verified to confirm that the customer does have access to the mobile number email address social networking ID or other alias provided. For example as described in greater detail below the financial institution or other entity that maintains a database of aliases and associates them with financial institution accounts may send a communication to the customer using the alias and require the customer to confirm access to the alias by responding to the notice in some way. For example if the alias registered by the customer is a mobile telephone number the financial institution may send a text message to the mobile telephone number with a code and then require that the customer enter the code into a mobile banking or online banking application to confirm that the mobile telephone number is associated with the customer . Once the alias information is verified then the alias is linked to one or more of the customer s financial institution accounts in a data repository maintained by the financial institution or some other entity that provides an alias registry service to the financial institution.

The customer can also use embodiments of the invention to provide gift credit to other entity s such as receiver using an alias of the receiver . In some embodiments of the invention the customer is able to set preferences for accounts to be used for gift purchasing gift credit and default account s for attaching gift credit. In some embodiments of the invention the financial institution places limits e.g. maximums and or minimums on how much money and or gift credits can be sent or received over a specified period of time using P2P payment aliases and such limits may be based on the sender gift provider the receiver gift recipient whether the receiver gift recipient is a customer of the financial institution or a partner financial institution account history credit ratings customer status whether the customer has registered the alias and or any other relevant information. In some embodiments the customer can also establish limits on purchasing and or receiving P2P gift credits. For example a customer may want to set a maximum of 1000 for P2P gift credit purchases where an alias is used for the recipient as opposed to an account number.

In some embodiments of the invention the customer may also have an option of opening a new P2P e.g. gift credit account with the financial institution that the customer may use exclusively for making and or receiving P2P payments such as purchasing gift credits and or receiving attaching gift credits. This financial entity P2P account may be like any other account hosted at the financial entity and as such. money may be moved instantly into this account through the regular online banking transfer process for moving money between a customer s accounts. P2P gift credit account may be a type of DDA demand deposit account or credit account however that it may come with certain limitations e.g. no checks maximum balance limits maximum number of daily transactions or the like and may be opened by customers providing much less information as compared to a regular DDA account. The financial entity may at a minimum require customers to provide certain information such as name address date of birth and social security number in order to comply with Anti Money Laundering AML regulations. Customers of the financial entity may also have an option to set up P2P accounts i.e. sub accounts for minors other dependents or related entities. Customers are able to access these accounts just like any of their other accounts. In addition customers are able to set up an online banking access ID for the minor that the minor may use to sign into online banking but have access only to the specific minor P2P account set up for them.

In accordance with embodiments of the invention gift credit purchases may be made by providing an alias . In general as described in greater detail below the customer initiates a P2P gift credit purchase by using an alias and communicating the alias and an associated payment amount to the financial institution. The financial institution then accesses an alias database or other type of data repository to determine if the entered alias has been registered by the alias holder gift recipient and is thereby associated with a particular financial institution account. If the alias does have a match to a payment account of the gift credit recipient then the attachment of the gift credit may be initiated to the gift recipient as described in greater detail below. If there is no match then either an error message is generated or if possible the alias may be used to contact the intended gift credit recipient and allow this person to register the alias and thereby associate the alias with a financial institution account. At any time if gift credit is not attached to the recipient s payment account and or gift credit notifications are not received as represented by block the gift credit may be canceled as represented by block .

In some embodiments of the invention an alias may be associated with multiple financial institution accounts of the alias holder. In some such embodiments the alias holder may be able to establish a default account for gift credits when registering the alias or afterwards. Consequently if a gift credit recipient does have a default account for incoming gift credits in then the funds may be attached instantly to that account s . If the gift recipient has not set up a default account in but the gift credit recipient does have multiple accounts associated with the alias then the funds may be moved to a master payment settlement account and the gift credit recipient may see the payment as an incoming payment within online banking mobile banking or the like. The gift credit recipient may then be able to use the online banking application to attach the credit amount instantly to any of the receiver s others accounts. In other embodiments however each alias is associated only with one financial institution account and therefore steps and are not needed and the payment is deposited directly into the one financial institution account associated with the alias . In such instances the gift credit recipient may be able to change the attached account after the gift credit has been attached to the preconfigured financial institution associated with the alias .

As further illustrated in the alias may be a mobile telephone number and as such a gift credit purchase may be made by the customer providing a mobile phone number of the intended gift credit recipient along with an associated payment amount. If at Decision there is no match then a text message voice mail message or the like may be sent to the mobile number provided as represented by block . If the intended gift credit recipient is an existing financial institution customer or in some embodiments if the gift credit recipient is a customer of a partner financial institution also participating in the P2P gift credit program then that intended gift credit recipient may be allowed to sign into their online or mobile banking account register the phone number as illustrated by block thereby associating the phone number with a financial institution account for P2P gift credit receipt purposes and then receive the gift credit similar to the process described above for the alias . If the gift credit recipient is not a financial entity customer with an account eligible for receiving gift credits then the gift credit recipient may be given the option to sign up as represented by block for a financial institution account or at the financial institution or provide for the return of the gift credit to the gift credit provider as represented by block .

As further illustrated in the alias may be an email address and as such gift credit purchase may be made by the gift credit provider providing an email address of the intended gift credit recipient along with an associated gift credit amount. This operation may perform exactly as described above for a mobile number except that the notification message with the registration or account opening option if appropriate is sent to the email address provided.

In some embodiments of the invention virtual gift crediting may be made by providing a social networking ID such as a unique ID associated with the intended gift credit recipient on a particular social networking Internet site. In such a situation the process operates in the same way as described above for mobile phone number and email address except the social networking platform may be used to notify the receiver based on the social networking ID provided.

In all cases described above if the intended gift credit recipient is already a customer of the financial institution or a partner financial institution and has already registered the alias provided by the gift provider a text message email online banking notice mobile banking notice social network posting or other type of message may be sent to gift credit recipient based on the alias entered by the gift credit provider or irrespective of information entered by gift credit provider if there is other contact information found in the gift credit recipient s profile the notification notifying the gift credit recipient of the gift credit. In some embodiments the gift credit recipient may be allowed to decline the gift credit or re route the gift credit to another recipient. In some embodiments of the invention the gift credit provider is permitted to include a personalized note to the gift credit recipient along with the gift credit notice such as a personalized note explaining to the recipient the reason or intent for the gift credit.

It should be appreciated that embodiments of the invention described above permit a gift credit provider to send gift credit to another entity even if the gift credit provider entity does not know any account information for the recipient entity and only knows a mobile telephone number or email address of the recipient entity. This can also result in better protection of personal account information. It should also be appreciated that some embodiments of the invention create a viral registration and or account opening system that allows for customers of a financial institution to send gift credits to anyone outside the financial entity using an alias. In such embodiments the non customers are contacted using the alias and they are allowed to quickly open and or register an account with the financial institution in order to attach the gift credit amounts sent from the gift credit provider.

As will be appreciated by one of skill in the art the present invention may be embodied as a method including for example a computer implemented process a business process and or any other process apparatus including for example a system machine device computer program product and or the like or a combination of the foregoing. Accordingly embodiments of the present invention may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code etc. or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may generally be referred to herein as a system. Furthermore embodiments of the present invention may take the form of a computer program product on a computer readable medium having computer executable program code embodied in the medium.

Any suitable transitory or non transitory computer readable medium may be utilized. The computer readable medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus or device. More specific examples of the computer readable medium include but are not limited to the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a tangible storage medium such as a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory a compact disc read only memory CD ROM or other optical or magnetic storage device.

In the context of this document a computer readable medium may be any medium that can contain store communicate or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device. The computer usable program code may be transmitted using any appropriate medium including but not limited to the Internet wireline optical fiber cable radio frequency RF signals or other mediums.

Computer executable program code for carrying out operations of embodiments of the present invention may be written in an object oriented scripted or unscripted programming language such as Java Perl Smalltalk C or the like. However the computer program code for carrying out operations of embodiments of the present invention may also be written in conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages.

Embodiments of the present invention are described above with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods apparatus systems and computer program products. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and or combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer executable program code portions. These computer executable program code portions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a particular machine such that the code portions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create mechanisms for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

These computer executable program code portions may also be stored in a computer readable memory that can direct a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to function in a particular manner such that the code portions stored in the computer readable memory produce an article of manufacture including instruction mechanisms which implement the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block s .

The computer executable program code may also be loaded onto a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer or other programmable apparatus to produce a computer implemented process such that the code portions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide steps for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block s . Alternatively computer program implemented steps or acts may be combined with operator or human implemented steps or acts in order to carry out an embodiment of the invention.

As the phrase is used herein a processor may be configured to perform a certain function in a variety of ways including for example by having one or more general purpose circuits perform the function by executing particular computer executable program code embodied in computer readable medium and or by having one or more application specific circuits perform the function.

Embodiments of the present invention are described above with reference to flowcharts and or block diagrams. It will be understood that steps of the processes described herein may be performed in orders different than those illustrated in the flowcharts. In other words the processes represented by the blocks of a flowchart may in some embodiments be in performed in an order other that the order illustrated may be combined or divided or may be performed simultaneously. It will also be understood that the blocks of the block diagrams illustrated in some embodiments merely conceptual delineations between systems and one or more of the systems illustrated by a block in the block diagrams may be combined or share hardware and or software with another one or more of the systems illustrated by a block in the block diagrams. Likewise a device system apparatus and or the like may be made up of one or more devices systems apparatuses and or the like. For example where a processor is illustrated or described herein the processor may be made up of a plurality of microprocessors or other processing devices which may or may not be coupled to one another. Likewise where a memory is illustrated or described herein the memory may be made up of a plurality of memory devices which may or may not be coupled to one another.

While certain exemplary embodiments have been described and shown in the accompanying drawings it is to be understood that such embodiments are merely illustrative of and not restrictive on the broad invention and that this invention not be limited to the specific constructions and arrangements shown and described since various other changes combinations omissions modifications and substitutions in addition to those set forth in the above paragraphs are possible. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that various adaptations and modifications of the just described embodiments can be configured without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention. Therefore it is to be understood that within the scope of the appended claims the invention may be practiced other than as specifically described herein.

