---

title: Management of commercial messages in a social network
abstract: Methods, systems, and computer programs are presented for managing the flow of messages among users of a social network. One method enables the election of an entity in the social network by a person in the social network. The election indicates that the person follows the entity to receive entity electronic messages. Further, an election of the person by the entity is disabled until it is detected that the person has elected to follow the entity. Additionally, the method includes an operation for detecting the election of the entity by the person, where the person is enabled to add the entity to communication groups managed by the person after the election. The entity is enabled to follow the person after the person elects to follow the entity, and messages from the person to communication groups including the entity will reach the entity.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09319371&OS=09319371&RS=09319371
owner: GOOGLE INC.
number: 09319371
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121102
---
This application claims priority from U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 556 149 filed Nov. 4 2011 and entitled Management of Commercial Messages in a Social Network. This provisional application is herein incorporated by reference.

The present disclosure relates to methods systems and computer programs for managing the flow of messages among users of a social network and more particularly for managing the flow of messages between persons and non person entities.

The communication capability provided by social networks has opened new forms of communication in today s society making it easier for people to communicate with each other as well as providing new vehicles of communications between people and businesses or with other community groups. As people s interest in using social networks for communication has grown so has the interest of businesses in using social networks to communicate with people enabling a new form of communication for keeping customers informed and promote their products.

Embodiments provide methods systems and computer programs for managing the flow of messages among users of a social network. It should be appreciated that the present embodiments can be implemented in numerous ways such as a process an apparatus a system a device or a method on a computer readable medium. Several embodiments are described below.

In one embodiment a method includes an operation for enabling the election of an entity account in the social network by a person account in the social network. The election indicates that the person account is following the entity account to receive electronic messages from the entity account. Further an election of the person account by the entity account is disabled until it is detected that the person account has elected to follow the entity account. Additionally the method includes an operation for detecting the election of the entity account by the person account where the person account is enabled to add the entity account to one or more communication groups managed by the person account after the election. In response to detecting the election of the entity account the entity account is enabled to follow the person account and messages from the person account to communication groups including the entity account will reach the entity account.

Detecting an election of the person account by the entity account and enabling the entity account to add the person account to communication groups managed by the entity account.

Enabling entity accounts to search for entity accounts and disabling entity accounts to search for person accounts.

Detecting a post created by the person account that mentions the entity account and enabling the entity account to respond to the post in response to detecting the post.

Detecting a post created by the person account without a mention to the entity account and disabling the entity account to respond to the post in response to detecting the post unless the entity account is following the person account.

Detecting a deletion of the entity account from the person account and removing the person account from the entity account in response to detecting the deletion.

Enabling electronic messages from the entity account related to message streams started before the deletion.

Detecting a new election by the person account of the entity account after the deletion and adding the person account to communication groups of the entity account where the person account existed before the deletion.

In another embodiment a method for managing the flow of messages among users of a social network includes an operation for enabling an endorsement operation in the social network where the social network includes person accounts and entity accounts. An endorsement of an entity account by a person account increases a value of an endorsement counter associated with the entity account. Furthermore a follow operation is enabled in the social network. In one embodiment the follow operation is independent of the endorsement operation. Therefore a user may choose to perform an endorsement a follow operation or both. A person account is enabled to start following an entity and the entity account is disabled to follow the person account until the person account starts following the entity account. An endorsement of the entity account by the person account when the person account is not following the entity account maintains messaging disabled from the entity account to the person account wherein at least one operation of the method is executed through a processor.

Detecting that the person account is following the entity account where the person account is enabled to add the entity account to one or more communication groups managed when the person account is following the entity account.

Enabling the entity account to follow the person account when the person account is following the entity account.

Detecting an extended electronic message from the person account to the communication groups managed by the person account where the extended electronic message does not extend through entity accounts.

Enabling a post endorsement operation to posts in a stream of the person account or the entity account.

In yet another embodiment a computer program embedded in a non transitory computer readable storage medium when executed by one or more processors for managing the flow of messages among users of a social network comprises program instructions for enabling an election of an entity account in the social network by a person account in the social network. The election indicates that the person account follows the entity account to receive electronic messages from the entity account. The computer program further includes program instructions for disabling an election of the person account by the entity account until a detection that the person account has elected to follow the entity account. The computer program also includes program instructions for detecting the election of the entity account by the person account. The person account is enabled to add the entity account to one or more communication groups managed by the person account after the election and after detecting the election the entity account is enabled to elect the person account to follow the person account where messages from the person account to groups including the entity account will reach the entity account.

Program instructions for enabling an endorsement operation where an endorsement of an entity account by a person account increases a value of an endorsement counter associated with the entity account.

A computer program where an endorsement of the entity account by the person account when the person account is not following the entity account maintains communications disabled from the entity account to the person account.

Program instructions for detecting a post created by the person account that mentions the entity account and program instructions for enabling the entity account to respond to the post in response to detecting the post.

In yet another embodiment a method includes an operation for receiving from a user an interaction with an entity page indicating a change in the relationship with the entity page defined in a social graph of the user. Further the method includes an operation for in response to receiving the indication of the change in the relationship modifying privileges of the entity page with respect to interactions with the user initiated by the entity where at least one operation of the method is executed through a processor.

These and other embodiments can provide one or more of the following advantages reduce the amount of undesired messages provide better control on the flow of electronic messages and automatically reduce or stop communications from an entity when the user stops following the entity.

Other aspects will become apparent from the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.

The following embodiments describe methods systems and computer programs for managing the flow of messages among users of a social network. It will be apparent that the present embodiments may be practiced without some or all of these specific details.

In one embodiment social network server delivers services that enable users to interface with each other. The social network provides a site that enables users to define user accounts which can be accounts for people and entity accounts. Through those accounts users are able to connect with their friends group of friends entities groups of entities etc. In one embodiment the relationships established in the social network may be utilized in other contexts. Processing server manages the electronic messages between persons and non person entities by enforcing rules related to electronic messages and or actions within the social network. Search server provides Internet search capabilities.

In one embodiment the social network provides customizable controls that people may use to manage interactions and electronic messages with non person entities. In one example the logic executing the social network may define various services and controls. One example service is designed for real person users e.g. people accounts . Another example service is designed for non person entities e.g. entity accounts . In one embodiment a real person is an individual person. The entity account of the entity on the other hand is similar to a user account of a person however the services and controls may be different. As noted above an entity may be a business a famous person or figure a commercial figure an artist a celebrity a government group a brand a political figure a community association an organization an entity that provides services an entity that provides goods an entity that provides goods and services etc. Furthermore the entity may provide its goods or services primarily on the Internet primarily as a brick and mortar outfit or a combination thereof. For description purposes a real person may be referred to herein as a person people or an individual.

For description purposes a non person entity may be referred to herein as simply an entity a company a corporation a business an entity account etc. An entity may be a user although its use will be through an entity account. A user as referred to herein is a generic term for a person or entity unless otherwise noted. A non entity user therefore may utilize the social network through a user account.

In one embodiment the social network provides entities with a specific type of interface for posting messages electronic messages sharing and generally interacting within the social network. In one embodiment this interface for entities is referred to as an entity pages and can be indicated visually by a token e.g. . followed by the name of the entity in the social network e.g. Acme corporation has a Acme page . Real persons have person pages which are different from entity pages and have different functionality although some features are common to both entity pages and person pages. Although the symbol and word plus is referred to herein as denoting a type of site or place within the social network it should be appreciated that any symbol identifier word or character may be used to define or identify the social services. In an alternate embodiment the services can be provided without the use of any special symbols or denoted nomenclature. Thus so long as the social network site provides the functionality defined herein the nomenclature utilized to denote the services can take on any form format or identifier.

In one embodiment a real person may act as an entity. For example the real person may be a public figure which uses the social network to promote commercial or social activities associated with this persona. In this case the person is treated by the social network as an entity because the main purpose of the public figure is to promote commercial or social activities. This person may for example have a user account as well as an entity account. The user when acting for the entity will login to her entity account. The user can therefore act in various roles consistent with their login parameters or assigned privileges. In one embodiment a user can have multiple privileges which will allow the user to log into her one account and based on her privileges will be allowed to access both accounts. Alternatively each account will have its own login.

In one embodiment a person is always in control of her relationships with entities e.g. entity pages . In one embodiment interactions between person and entity require person approval e.g. an addition of the entity page to the person s social network or a mention by the person of the entity which are discussed in more detail below . Otherwise entity pages present a similar behavior as person pages once the person has initiated engagement with the entity.

It is noted that the embodiments illustrated in are exemplary. Other embodiments may utilize different servers have the functionality of one server distributed over a plurality of servers have the functionality of two or more servers combined into a single server have a different amount of user categories in the social network categorize users by different criteria etc. The embodiments illustrated in should therefore not be interpreted to be exclusive or limiting but rather exemplary or illustrative.

In one embodiment the stream is presented in a middle panel of page . Input box enables the person to add new posts in the social network. When the person enters a new post the person is able to select the destination for the post. The destination could be to the complete social network e.g. a public post to a person or to one or more groups defined by the person.

In one embodiment the groups defined by the person are referred to as circles but other configurations for defining groups are also possible. Examples include various graphically designed interfaces or text based lists dialog boxes pull downs radio buttons and other interfaces defined from a combination of graphical elements text images pictures combinations thereof etc. More details regarding the creation of circles are provided below with reference to . In one embodiment the post may be a text message a photo a video a link to a webpage or a location of the person. Thus the content and form of the post can include any data that can be presented displayed listened to interfaced with received sent shared approved or disapproved etc.

In one embodiment the stream includes posts added by the person by others socially linked to the person or by an entity that the person has chosen to follow e.g. be linked with to in the social network . In one embodiment an entity may be restricted from posting to a person s stream unless the person has established a social link with the entity beforehand e.g. the person has chosen to follow the entity.

In one embodiment each post may include information about the author the timestamp of the post and the scope of the post e.g. public limited etc. . Example post may include a text message entered by person John Smith but other types of posts are possible such as photo a video a link data etc. The social network provides options to respond to the post such as providing an endorsement of the post adding a comment to the post or sharing the post with others.

As used herein an endorsement is a public recommendation of an item such as a webpage a person a post an entity etc. An endorsement may also be referred to or provided as an acknowledgment a 1 a thumbs up a check mark a confirmation a ratification a validation a seal of approval a testimonial support advocacy an approval a ratification etc. In one embodiment a button is provided in various web pages to enable the person to provide his or her endorsement. See for example 1 button . The various web pages can be pages on accounts of the social network on pages of third party web sites on search pages in lists of search results etc. The 1 button is provided in one embodiment as an icon that can be selected by the user. When selected the count associated with the 1 button is displayed so as to provide the user with information regarding the number of other users that may have selected the 1 button.

Therefore an endorsement button is not limited to use in the social network and the endorsement button may appear in a variety of places and sites across the Internet. For example an endorsement button may be next to an Internet search result an Internet ad a news article a product etc. When the person presses the endorsement button a count associated with the item endorsed is incremented. The count measures the popularity of the item and as people endorse an item the counter associated with the item increases. In one embodiment the action of endorsing an entity in the social network does not cause the entity to be linked with the person in the social network. In another embodiment for a link to be established in the social network between the person and the entity a different operation is required where the person explicitly adds the entity to the person s social network. The explicit add can by performed by user selection on an interface addition of an entity to one of their groups e.g. circle or selection of a button icon or some input control to follow the entity. The following can also be triggered automatically based on the user s approval to take this action each time the user views finds selects or interfaces with an account of an entity.

In one embodiment a mention is an explicit reference to a user in a communication. A mention allows the creator of the post to grab someone s attention to a post because of the introduction of a mention identifier with for example someone s name. In one embodiment a mention is performed by utilizing the or signs followed by the name of a person or entity. It is noted that a sign may be used to mention a person or an entity. When a person or an entity is mentioned within the context of the social network the person or entity may receive a notification that they have been mentioned in a post depending on notification settings . The user is also able to see the entirety of the post on which the user is mentioned even if the post wasn t originally shared with the user.

Button gives the person the ability to enter a different webpage which provides an interface to identify search parameters for finding people or entities in the social network. A profile picture of the person may be provided on the left side of page . In addition stream filtering options allows the person to limit or tune what is presented on the stream. In one embodiment the filtering options included radio buttons to select or deselect the groups created by the person. In addition the filtering options also include a radio button to enable or disable messages from entity pages in the stream. Although radio buttons are used other types of user selectable controls may be used such as drop downs text fields toggles voice inputs etc. In one embodiment a chat button is provided to allow the person to engage in conversation with others in the social network. On the right panel icons represent users in the social network that are linked with the person. In addition the social network provides suggested new users in area . It is again noted that the layout of the features on the page is only one example and the layout can vary based on site designer preferences.

Embodiments of the disclosure allow people to be in control of social messages. For an entity to initiate communication with the person the person has to first add explicitly the entity to its social network. In one embodiment an entity is not able to initiate communications in the social network with a person that has not added the entity to its social network or that has explicitly mentioned the entity in a post.

The person is able to perform certain operations affecting the relationship between the person and the entity. The person may endorse the entity or the person may add the entity to one of her social groups defined in the social network. In one embodiment the fact that the person endorses an entity does not enable the entity to freely initiate full communications or posts with the person. Of course if the person and the entity are socially linked the entity may initiate messaging with the person and post on the person s user account.

Users area displays icons images pictures or indicators associated with several users and circles area includes the groups defined by the user. In one embodiment the person is able to add users to the circles in circles area by selecting a user icon dragging the icon to the circles area and dropping the icon in one of the circles. To delete a user from a circle the user icon inside the circle is dragged from the circle and dropped outside the circle. In one embodiment when the person moves the mouse over a circle the circle is enlarged to show the user icons corresponding to the users belonging to that circle. For example after placing the mouse over circle circle is expanded having now a larger size than the other circles and presents the users currently in that circle. Other circles such as circle named Friends are presented in a smaller size than circle and do not show their contents. To create a new circle the person can drop a user from users area in circle .

In one embodiment the social network creates a default circle for inclusion of entity pages. The embodiment of provides a circle named Following for inclusion of entity pages. The entity pages do not have to be added to circle and may be added to any of the circles defined by the person. In one embodiment persons and entities can also be added to more than one circle. In one embodiment when a person starts following an entity the entity is automatically added to the Following circle although the person may later remove the entity or moving to another circle. In another embodiment when the decision is made to follow an entity a drop down provides the user with options to add the entity to any one of the circles previously created by the user or to a following circle. This option allows for direct adding of users to circles without first adding them to the following circle .

The users in user area can be real persons e.g. person Jason Alex or can be entities e.g. entity Acme . People are able to place real persons or entities in any of the circles below and a circle may have just people just entities or a mix of people and entities.

In one embodiment user area also includes a couple of selection boxes for adding persons or entities e.g. entity pages . When the person selects one of these boxes options are presented to enter the name of a person or an entity or to perform a search on the social network. In another embodiment a unique box is presented to search for people or entities. In one embodiment once the person enters a sign as the first character of the search the social network limits the search to entities. Otherwise the search is limited to real persons. Again it should be understood that any other symbol or token can be used to filter identify or modify a search query.

The profile page includes a region that can accept an icon associated with the entity and the name of the entity next to the icon . In addition an endorsement button gives the person or other entity an option for endorsing the entity associated with the profile page. Counter provides information about the number of people or entities that have endorsed this entity. In one embodiment the profile page of a person may not include endorsement button . In another embodiment the social network allows for the endorsement of real people and an endorsement button is available to endorse people.

Profile page also includes information about users in the user s circles that are also following this entity e.g. users in common following this entity. This information helps the entity improve its corporate image by showing related users that also are associated with the entity. In addition information is provided about users or entities of the social network that are in the entity s circles but that are not currently in any of the user s circles.

In one embodiment the social network enforces a privacy mechanic e.g. a policy to reduce undesired messages. In one embodiment the policy defines two types of users people and entities. The messaging rules in the social network are different for people and for entities. A person may initiate contact with an entity but the entity may not initiate contact with the person. Once the person establishes a social link with the entity e.g. the person adds the entity to one or more circles then the entity may start communicating with the person. In one embodiment an entity may initiate contact with other entities of course subject to user privacy settings but not with real people e.g. people accounts . This policy puts the person in command of the message flow between people and entities.

In one embodiment the privacy policy defines that people may not have automatic acceptance of tags for photos posted on the social network by entities. However there can be automatic acceptance of tags from entities by other entities.

In one embodiment an entity may search for public information about people but the entity is not enabled to add people found in the search to the entity s circles unless of course a person found in the search is already following the entity. For example if the intent of the search is to add new people to the entity s circles as in the circle editor of the social network disables the entity from finding new people to add to circles by disallowing the people search in the circle editing page.

In one embodiment the social network provides a default circle to the entity for adding users followed by the entity. Circle named Following in the sample of is intended to be used for adding users that are being followed by the entity in response to the person s initiated following of the entity. However the entity may add other circles and organize the users followed as desired by the administrator of the entity page. For example the embodiment of illustrates a page that includes besides the Following circle a Fashion circle e.g. to include other related companies in the fashion industry a branches circle e.g. to include retail outlets for the entity and a Distributors circle e.g. to include the distributors that carry the entity s products .

The entity may add each user to more than one circle. For example the entity might create circles by geographic location in order to better target marketing messages e.g. United States South America Europe Asia etc. or may create circles according to demographic criteria e.g. 18 21 years old 22 30 31 50 and 51 . The number and type of circles e.g. groups created by the entity are limitless. The circles can be created for limited times and people can be dynamically moved by the entity or an process set by the entity.

In one embodiment the social network provides an automatic creation of circles also referred to as suggested circles based on the parameters selected by the entity and executed by the process or based on user characteristics that are public or authorized by the user for use. Each suggested circle is associated with a respective one or more attributes such as geographic location language country etc. When a person first starts following an entity the person is automatically added to the entity s suggested circles that match the person s characteristics. For example a person is added to a circle for the city of San Jose if the person lives in San Jose the person is added to a circle for ages from 10 to 20 if the person is 19 years old the person is added to a circle for United States if the person lives in the United States etc.

It is noted that each person is added to suggested circles when the person has provided the corresponding information to the social network e.g. provided the information to the user profile and the person has allowed the social network to use this or part of the information for selection of people to be added to the corresponding circles. In one embodiment the content of the suggested circles is not available for inspection by the entity. This way the entity does not receive information about the person although the entity can target its marketing messages to the appropriate segments due to the infrastructure provided by the suggested circles.

The mechanic of suggested circles in one embodiment is transparent to people and settable by administrative functions of the entity. For example a person might receive a message from a company but the person does not know why she received the message. The reason the person received the particular message may be for example because the entity decided to send that message to all of the people or entities that were part of one of their circles. As another example the entity may decide to move certain people and entities into a circle for an upcoming event. Before the event the entity can set a campaign to notify those people and entities regarding information specials coupons etc. as it pertains to the upcoming event. Once the event is done the entity can manually move the people and entities back to their originally established default circles. In still another embodiment the users that were added to the event circle can simply be copied as a second instance to the event circle. When the event is done the event circle is deleted. The users however are still present in their previously defined circles of the entity.

In another embodiment the suggested circles are administered by the entity because the social network provides information about the person to the entity of course the person s information or only certain specific information provided must be approved by the person . In one embodiment the entity is able to manually assign people to suggested circles according to their characteristics in order to customize marketing communications or any other type of communication.

Each user has defined one or more circles and in each circle one or more users have been included. The presence of a user in a circle means that the user is being followed by the owner of that circle. For example person 2 has defined two circles a first circle to follow entities A and B and a second circle to follow persons 3 and 5.

A follow or following relationship defines that a follower receives messages from another user being followed. The follow relationships have been represented as arrows connecting users. A double arrow represents a reciprocal relationship also referred to as mutual or shared relationship where both users are following each other. A single arrow represents a non reciprocal relationship also referred to as a uni directional or one sided relationship where the single arrow originates at the user following the other user where the arrow ends but the reverse follows relationship is not present.

In the embodiment of person 2 has no relationship with entity C . However there is a difference between person 2 and entity C. Person 2 may add entity C to its circles but entity C may not add person 2 to its circles unless person 2 first starts following entity C. Once the entity gets the person s tacit approval the interactions person to person are similar to the person to entity interactions although there may be some differences in some embodiments such as when computing the person s extended network which is discussed in more detail below . This means that the entity page can show up in the person s circle editor and in other touch points in the social network or outside the social network such as in an Internet search page.

It is noted that if a person posts a photo to one or more of her circles and there are some entities in those circles the entities will be able to see the photo even if the photo happens to be something personal such as vacation pictures. The solution for the person is to manage the members of its circles and not share personal information with circles that include entities. In one embodiment a warning is given to the person before finalizing a post if the post appears to be personal and the post will reach one or more entities.

Content shared with extended circles appear in the incoming stream of people who are one degree removed from the person. For example Nediva is in one of a Mike s circles and Jadon is in one of Nediva s circles. Mike does not know Jadon and Jadon is not in any of Mike s circles. If Nediva chooses to have Jadon visible on her profile among the people in her circles and Mike chooses to share with his extended circles the content will appear in both Nediva s and Jadon s streams.

In one embodiment entities are not allowed to do extended circle posts. If entities were allowed to do extended circle posts entities could be posting to people that have not added the entity to the entity s circles. In addition entities are not included in extended circle posts initiated by people unless the entities are directly linked to the person doing the post.

The embodiment of illustrates the extended group of person 2 . The extended group includes persons 1 3 and 5 and entities A and B for the following reasons 

It should be noted that if two persons are following the same entity an extended circle post will reach the entity. Therefore the person may not assume that if an extended circle post is done it will not reach any brand because it may reach the brands that the person is following even if the person does not post to the circle having the brand.

The social network provides a way to establish a conversation between a person and an entity without having to add the entity to a circle. For example if the person sends a message to the company the company can send a message back to the person. If the person mentions an entity or an entity page the entity can post in the context of the mention even if the entity is not in the person s circles. A mention of an entity page operates in similar fashion as when a person mentions another person e.g. by including the symbol before the person s name . Entities will receive a notification of the mention depending on notification settings of course . However an entity can only mention people that have added the entity to their circles.

If an entity mentions a user with and existing relationship with the entity the user is notified depending on notification settings . In addition entities can mention other entities even if the entities do not have a current follow relationship in the social network. Summarizing an entity can comment on a person s post it one of the following is true 

3. The person or any commenter invites the entity into the post stream by expressly mentioning the entity in the post stream.

Returning now to in operation the person makes a post mentioning the company e.g. Hello Company . Since the company has expressly been mentioned even though the company does not have a relationship with person yet the company obtains visibility to the post due to the mention . In operation the entity decides to add to the public post e.g. Hello Person. I m glad to hear from you . The post from company is then reviewed by person in operation .

In operation the person makes a public post without mentioning the company. As discussed above the person has not yet established a relationship in the social network with company . In operation the company receives the posts because it was made public. However the company cannot participate or add to that public post. The company may not post nor comment nor endorse the post e.g. 1 . For example if the company attempts to post a comment to the public post the social network blocks the post from reaching person .

In operation person adds company to her social network e.g. to the one of her circles. Consequently company gets notified that a new person is following the entity. The company can now add this person to any circle . In one embodiment the person gets automatically added to at least one of the circles defined by company .

In operation the company makes a post to a circle that includes person . The post is added to the person s stream because person is now following company and a link has been established between person and company . Additionally in operation the company makes a public post with a mention of person . Since person and company are now linked the person receives the public post because the person was mentioned in the post of course depending on notification setting configured by person .

In operation person has decided that she does not want to see any other electronic messages from the company related to the old posts so person blocks the company from the posts. If the company adds to the old post which was blocked by person the post is blocked by the social network and will not reach person .

In operation person changes her mind and decides to add the company again to one of her circles. As a result the company gets notified that the user is again following the company and person is automatically added to the same circles of company that the person belonged to before breaking the follow relationship with the company. In operation the company makes a post to person and because the relationship has been reestablished person receives the company s post in operation .

Processing server manages the rules for establishing social relationships within the network and the rules for controlling the authorized recipients of messages from any user in the social network. When a request is made to the social network server to establish a new relationship e.g. to start following another user the social network forwards the requests to processing server which determines if the request is authorized or denied.

For example processing server checks if a person may be added to another person s circles or if a person may be added to an entity s circles. The processing server maintains the list of the possible operations. In one embodiment processing server provides an Application Programming Interface API which is utilized by social network server to perform requests from the processing server .

In one embodiment the rules for enabling the addition of users to a user s network are defined by the following table 

In one embodiment the processing server operates at the storage layer and these rules are enforced at the storage layer. It is appreciated that the embodiments illustrated in are exemplary. Other embodiments may utilize different rules different servers combine the functionality of different servers into one server distribute the functionality of one server among several servers etc. The embodiments illustrated in should therefore not be interpreted to be exclusive or limiting but rather exemplary or illustrative.

Further the method includes operation for disabling an election of the person account by the entity account until the social network detects that the person account has elected to follow the entity account. From operation the method flows to operation where the election of the entity account by the person account is detected. The person account is enabled to add the entity account to one or more messaging groups managed by the person account after the election where in response to detecting the election of the entity account the entity account is enabled to follow the person account. Messages from the person account to messaging groups including the entity account reach the entity account where at least one operation of the method is executed through a processor.

Permanent storage represents a persistent data storage device such as a hard drive or a USB drive which may be local or remote. Network interface provides connections via network allowing communications wired or wireless with other devices. It should be appreciated that processor may be embodied in a general purpose processor a special purpose processor or a specially programmed logic device. Input Output I O interface provides communication with different peripherals and is connected with processor memory and permanent storage through the bus. Sample peripherals include display keyboard mouse removable media device etc.

Display is configured to display the user interfaces described herein. Keyboard mouse removable media device and other peripherals are coupled to I O interface in order to exchange information with processor . It should be appreciated that data to and from external devices may be communicated through I O interface . Embodiments can also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a wired or a wireless network.

Embodiments can be fabricated as computer readable code on a non transitory computer readable storage medium. The non transitory computer readable storage medium holds data which can be read by a computer system. Examples of the non transitory computer readable storage medium include permanent storage network attached storage NAS read only memory or random access memory in memory module Compact Discs CD Blu ray discs flash drives hard drives magnetic tapes and other data storage devices. The non transitory computer readable storage medium may be distributed over a network coupled computer system so that the computer readable code is stored and executed in a distributed fashion.

Some or all operations of the method presented herein are executed through a processor such as processor of . Additionally although the method operations were described in a specific order it should be understood that some operations may be performed in a different order when the order of the operations do not affect the expected results. In addition other operations may be included in the methods presented and the operations may be performed by different entities in a distributed fashion as long as the processing of the operations is performed in the desired way.

In addition at least one operation of some methods performs physical manipulation of physical quantities and some of the operations described herein are useful machine operations. Embodiments presented herein recite a device or apparatus. The apparatus may be specially constructed for the required purpose or may be a general purpose computer. The apparatus includes a processor capable of executing the program instructions of the computer programs presented herein.

Although the foregoing embodiments have been described with a certain level of detail for purposes of clarity it is noted that certain changes and modifications can be practiced within the scope of the appended claims. Accordingly the provided embodiments are to be considered illustrative and not restrictive not limited by the details presented herein and may be modified within the scope and equivalents of the appended claims.

