---

title: Separation of the rare-earth fission product poisons from spent nuclear fuel
abstract: A method for the separation of the rare-earth fission product poisons comprising providing a spent nuclear fuel. The spent nuclear fuel comprises UOand rare-earth oxides, preferably Sm, Gd, Nd, Eu oxides, with other elements depending on the fuel composition. Preferably, the provided nuclear fuel is a powder, preferably formed by crushing the nuclear fuel or using one or more oxidation-reduction cycles. A compound comprising Th or Zr, preferably metal, is provided. The provided nuclear fuel is mixed with the Th or Zr, thereby creating a mixture. The mixture is then heated to a temperature sufficient to reduce the UOin the nuclear fuel, preferably to at least to 850° C. for Th and up to 600° C. for Zr. Rare-earth metals are then extracted to form the heated mixture thereby producing a treated nuclear fuel. The treated nuclear fuel comprises the provided nuclear fuel having a significant reduction in rare-earths.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09428401&OS=09428401&RS=09428401
owner: U.S. Department of Energy
number: 09428401
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120918
---
The United States Government has rights in this invention pursuant to Contract No. DE AC07 05ID14517 between the U.S. Department of Energy DOE and the Battelle Energy Alliance.

Commercial nuclear reactors are capable of producing energy with no significant emissions into the atmosphere. However nuclear reactors generate radioactive spent nuclear fuel SNF which following power generation are no longer capable of sustaining a fission chain reaction due to a build up of neutron absorbing fission products called poisons. For re introduction back in the reactor for further power generation spent fuel must be recycled by separating the remaining uranium fuel from the neutron absorbing fission products. Recycling can maximize nuclear fuel utilization and reduce waste.

Various techniques can be used to recycle spent nuclear fuel. PUREX Plutonium Uranium Extraction is an accepted standard aqueous wet reprocessing method for the recovery of fissile uranium and plutonium from nuclear fuel. PUREX is based on dissolving the fuel in acid and utilizing liquid liquid extraction to separate the uranium and plutonium from fission products. Pyroprocessing is another recycling technique whereby a high temperature molten salt for example LiCl KCl is used as an electrolyte in an electrochemical extraction of uranium and plutonium. Some efforts have been done to recycle spent nuclear fuel using a dry recycle process for example the process described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 597 538. Concerns about the possibility of extracting plutonium the use of toxic chemicals and the large volumes of radioactive liquid and gaseous waste associated with these recycle methods has led to an alternative method known as dry recycling which avoids these negative features. Dry recycling does not extract plutonium or use toxic chemical additives or generate large volumes of radioactive liquids. Generally dry recycling only requires fresh enriched uranium oxide feed material 20 30 volume and 17 wt enriched uranium oxide to be mixed with the existing spent fuel in order to overcome effects of residual neutron absorbing fission products primarily rare earths. The fresh feed spent fuel mixture is a viable nuclear fuel for further power generation. The fresh feed requirements can however be significantly reduced by the removal of the neutron absorbing fission products. Therefore there is a need for the extraction of the rare earth fission product poisons and consequently a significant reduction in the fresh feed volume fraction and enrichment resulting in enhanced economic viability as well proliferation and environmental attractiveness.

A method for the separation of the rare earth fission product poisons from a spent nuclear fuel. The spent nuclear fuel comprises UOand rare earth oxides preferably Sm Gd Nd Eu oxides with other elements depending on the fuel composition. Preferably the provided nuclear fuel is a powder preferably formed by crushing the nuclear fuel or using one or more oxidation reduction cycles. An element or compound comprising thorium Th or zirconium Zr is provided. The provided nuclear fuel is mixed with the Th or Zr thereby creating a mixture. The mixture is then heated to a temperature sufficient to reduce at least some of the UOin the nuclear fuel preferably to at least to 850 C. for Th and up to 600 C. for Zr. Rare earth metals or oxides preferably Sm Gd Nd Eu are then extracted to form the heated mixture thereby producing a treated nuclear fuel. The treated nuclear fuel comprises the provided nuclear fuel having a significant reduction in rare earth metals.

A method for the separation of the rare earth fission product poisons from a spent nuclear fuel. The spent nuclear fuel comprises UOand rare earth oxides preferably Sm Gd Nd Eu oxides with other elements depending on the fuel composition. Preferably the provided nuclear fuel is a powder preferably formed by crushing the nuclear fuel or using one or more oxidation reduction cycles. An element or compound comprising Thorium Th or zirconium Zr is provided. The provided nuclear fuel is mixed with the Th or Zr thereby creating a mixture. The mixture is then heated to a temperature sufficient to reduce at least some of the UOin the nuclear fuel preferably to at least to 850 C. for Th and up to 600 C. for Zr. Rare earth metals or oxides preferably Sm Gd Nd Eu are then extracted to form the heated mixture thereby producing a treated nuclear fuel. The treated nuclear fuel comprises the provided nuclear fuel having a significant reduction in rare earth metals.

The step of providing spent nuclear fuel comprises providing a spent nuclear fuel comprising UOand rare earth oxides preferably Sm Gd Nd Eu oxides preferably from having gone through fission in a nuclear reactor that contains fission product poisons. The spent nuclear fuel is preferably a uranium oxide carbide nitride or hydride fuel. In a preferred embodiment the spent nuclear fuel is a commercial LWR light water reactor oxide fuel. Preferably the nuclear fuel is converted into a fine powder less than 400 mesh or less than 40 m diameter particles. In one embodiment mechanical sizing such as ball milling is performed on the nuclear fuel. The specific optimal size is preferably determined through experimentation.

The provided nuclear fuel is preferably formed into a powdered nuclear fuel by subjecting the nuclear fuel to one or more oxidation reduction cycles. If the provided nuclear fuel has a cladding preferably the cladding is breached by for example puncturing the cladding and then subjected to one or more oxidation reduction cycles. Each oxidation reduction cycle comprises oxidizing the provided nuclear fuel followed by reducing the provided nuclear fuel. Oxidizing the provided nuclear fuel forms UO preferably at a temperature between 200 800 C. more preferably 400 C. which swells the nuclear fuel and ruptures the assembly clad. Preferably the provided nuclear fuel is reduced in H whereby the provided nuclear fuel reverts back to UOin H preferably between 350 and 800 C. more preferably 600 C. The provided nuclear fuel is preferably subjected to a plurality of preferably up to three oxidation reduction cycles causing the nuclear fuel to swell and rupture any cladding and to pulverize the fuel to a desirable particle size suitable for pelletization sintering and refabrication. Preferably the nuclear fuel is pulverized using the oxidation reduction cycle until the provided nuclear fuel is formed into a fine powder less than 400 mesh 40 m . In the alternative the cladding is mechanically ruptured and the provided nuclear fuel is then crushed and milled.

An element or compound comprising Th or Zr is provided preferably in metal form preferably Th or Zr. In alternate embodiments any compound comprising Th or Zr may be used. In one embodiment ThO is used and will oxidize up to ThOwhile reducing UOand rare earth oxides to metals as discussed herein. In one embodiment Th or Zr is Th metal Th . Th can add additional positive reactivity to nuclear fuel during irradiation in a nuclear reactor. Th is a threshold fissionable nuclide but can breed U 233 during fission a fissile nuclide that can further add more positive reactivity to the nuclear fuel. The addition of Th Th 232 will act much like the U 238 already in the nuclear fuel. Th refers to not just Th metal but any form of Th or compound containing Th. Likewise Zr refers to not just Zr metal but any form of Zr or compound containing Zr.

In an alternative embodiment Th or Zr is Zr metal Zr . Zr is not fissionable however it has a low parasitic thermal neutron capture cross section and is not affected the nuclear reactor reactivity.

Preferably the Th or Zr is converted into a fine powder less than 400 mesh or less than 40 m diameter particles. In one embodiment mechanical sizing such as ball milling is performed on the Th or Zr. The specific optimal size is preferably determined through experimentation. Preferably the Th or Zr has a particle size similar or more preferably substantially the same as the particle size of the provided nuclear fuel.

The provided spent nuclear fuel is mixed with Th or Zr using any means to substantially intermix either the Th or Zr with the provided nuclear fuel forming a physical combination. The Th or Zr and the provided nuclear fuel retain their identities and physically are mixed in the form of powders. Preferably the provided nuclear fuel is mixed with Th or Zr using a mix tank comprising an agitator blade within a container thereby physically mixing the provided nuclear fuel and the Th or Zr. Preferably the provided nuclear fuel is mixed with Th or Zr using an agitator blade deposited within the mixture that is rotated via an electronic motor or in an alternate embodiment a magnetic stirrer is employed. One embodiment of a magnetic stirrer comprises the use of a rotating magnetic field to cause a stir bar or flea immersed in the mixture to spin whereby the mixture is mixed. Preferably the rotating field is created by a rotating magnet or a set of stationary electromagnets. In an alternative mixer a tumbler is utilized or other standard handbook mixing techniques can be applied.

When Th powder is mixed with the powdered provided nuclear fuel a stoichiometric excess of Th is preferably added preferably to approximately 10 excess.

When Zr powder is mixed with the powdered provided nuclear fuel a stoichiometric excess of Zr is preferably added preferably to approximately 10 excess and the UOand any PuOare preferably reduced at temperatures up to 600 C. which releases the rare earth oxides out of the uranium phase.

The mixture is heated to a temperature sufficient to reduce at least some of the UOin the nuclear fuel preferably to at least to 850 C. for Th and up to 600 C. for Zr. At above 850 C. rare earth RE oxides in the nuclear fuel will reduce in the presence of Th in the following Reaction 1 RE O 3 2Th 3 2ThO 2RE Reaction 1 In other embodiments rare earth carbides and nitrides can also be reduced to metals by Th or Zr. Alternatively these other nuclear fuel types can initially be oxidized and can be processed similarly to oxide fuel.

Preferably Reaction 1 occurs simultaneously with the vaporization of the rare earth metals. As a result the rare earth metals evaporate from the nuclear fuel.

Preferably for embodiments using Th the mixed nuclear fuel and Th is heated to at least 850 C. in a vacuum an inert gas a reducing fluid or a combination thereof. In one embodiment the reducing fluid is H. Two of the major rare earth neutron poison metals Sm and Eu will reduce and vaporize in the mixture at temperatures at or above 850 C. Preferably the mixture is heated to a temperature at or above 1 500 1 800 C. the temperature needed to reduce and also vaporize Gd and Nd. Preferably the process is optimized by experimentation to maximize the extraction of Sm Gd Nd and Eu from the nuclear fuel as these rare earth metals represent more than 98 of the negative reactivity due to rare earth fission products and more than 73 of total negative reactivity following oxidative treatment.

In an alternative embodiment the mixture of nuclear fuel and Zr is heated to approximately 600 C. At temperatures up to 600 C. Zr reduces UOand PuO which would segregate the rare earth oxides from the uranium. In one embodiment the resulting mixture of rare earth oxide and ZrOpowders would be mechanically separated from the U and Pu by air classification. In another embodiment the mixture would be heated to a temperature sufficient to cause the ZrOto oxidize the U but not Pu preferably a temperature greater than 600 C. Preferably the segregated rare earth oxides and rhodium metal Rh Zr and Pu metals are chlorinated for vaporizing or dissolving from the UO.

In any of the embodiments for Th or Zr once the rare earth metals and possibly Rh have been separated from the fuel if the uranium and plutonium are in the form of metals they are preferably oxidized to UOand PuO.

For embodiments using Th when the mixture is heated rare earth oxides in the mixture are reduced using Reaction 1 and are vaporized. The vaporized rare earth metals are cooled forming rare earth deposits. The rare earth deposits are then collected. Preferably the cooled rare earth deposits are collected as a general maintenance and recycled for use elsewhere or disposed as low level waste.

Preferably a surface within the container is designed specifically for collection of the cooled rare earth deposits for example a metal bar or block. Therefore the metal bar or block is preferably removed from the container for cleaning of the cooled rare earth deposits. In an alternate embodiment the rare earth metals collect on the surface of a container which is periodically cleaned. In yet another alternate embodiment the rare earth deposits are extracted as vaporized rare earth metals through one or more openings of a container. In this embodiment the collected vaporized rare earth metals are cooled and deposited outside the container.

Some of the rare earth metals are vaporized. Preferably the vaporized rare earth metals are cooled on a surface forming rare earth deposits. The cooled rare earth deposits are then collected. Additional methods may be used to separate the segregated rare earth metals from the uranium and plutonium. These include air classification of the powders selective chlorination etc. The air classification may be preferred in some embodiments as it may also remove the Th from the mixture thereby increasing the resulting efficiency of the treated nuclear fuel.

Following the reduction and segregation of the fuel components by Th forming ThO the particle size and density differences allow for the thorium and the rare earth metals to be separated from the uranium and plutonium by air classification preferably in a manner similar to what was developed for separating TRISO and BISO fuel particles from graphite fuels. The relative properties of those particles were for TRISO and BISO respectively mean diameter 548 m and 525 m particle density 2.26 and kernel density 9.60 g cm. The theoretical densities of the treated spent nuclear fuel components are Th 11.7 ThO 9.86 U 19.05 Gd 7.90 Nd 7.00 Eu 5.24 Sm 7.52 Rh 12.4 in grams cm3.

For embodiments using Zr when the mixture is heated the rare earth oxides and the oxidized zirconium are preferably mechanically separated from the uranium and any plutonium by air classification. In another embodiment the uranium is re oxidized to UOby heating it in the presence of the oxidized Zr to greater than 600 C. where thermodynamics favors this reversed process Pu is not oxidized. Then the rare earth oxides and Pu metal as well as Rh and the now Zr are preferably selectively chlorinated for vaporizing from the UO.

Once segregated from the uranium other chemical or physical processes can be used to extract the rare earths rare earth metals oxides and combinations thereof from uranium. When both the uranium and the rare earths are reduced to the metals rare earth metals are preferably converted to chlorides by exposure to chlorine gas preferably at elevated temperatures. Because the rare earth metals will likely be much finer they may kinetically react under conditions of chlorine partial pressure and temperature where the uranium may not appreciably react. Once formed the rare earth chlorides are preferably extracted from the uranium by increasing the temperature in order to create a significant vapor pressure of the rare earth chlorides where they can be swept away from the uranium in a carrier gas or in vacuum preferably greater than 750 C.

In a preferred embodiment the heated mixture is exposed to a chlorine gas at a temperature and pressure capable of converting said uranium rhodium and rare earth metals of said heated mixture to uranium chloride rhodium chloride and rare earth chlorides. The rhodium chloride and rare earth chlorides are then heated to a temperature capable of creating a significant vapor pressure of the rhodium chloride and rare earth chlorides. The heated rhodium chloride and rare earth chlorides are then extracted using a carrier gas or in vacuum and preferably fractional vaporization and or condensation to segregate the rhodium chloride and rare earth chlorides from uranium chloride. In fractional vaporization the system is heated and held at a series of various temperatures to effect vaporization of the more volatile chlorides at lower temperatures and the less volatile chlorides at higher temperatures to result in separations as they are recovered by condensation from each temperature fraction. In fractional condensation the vapor species are collected in a series of condensation regions from higher to lower temperatures to collect successively less volatile to more volatile vapors thereby effecting separations.

In an alternate embodiment once the phase segregation has occurred the system is preferably oxidized back to the oxides by heating in air or oxygen at a temperature sufficient to effect oxidation of uranium thorium and rare earths and then the rare earth oxides and rhodium chlorinated. Preferably the heating does not exceed 750 C. as the UOand ThOwill not react with Cl g to form volatile chlorides at moderate temperatures up to 750 C. The rare earth oxides and rhodium will form chlorides which are preferably volatilized at higher temperatures once Clis removed so that UOwill not react or in the alternative is dissolved in water to effect extraction. A substantial benefit of chlorination is that rhodium forms a volatile chloride and is preferably subsequently extracted. Rhodium contributes 11.8 of the total initial negative reactivity in SNF compared with 22.8 13.2 12.7 and 4.6 for Sm Gd Nd and Eu respectively.

In one embodiment the segregated rare earth metals that result from reduction of the oxides are dissolved with nitric acid HNO that is not sufficiently concentrated to react with U. Uranium metal requires concentrated nitric acid for example 6 to 10 molar HNOat elevated temperatures near boiling for rapid dissolution. The rare earth metals are electropositive and dissolve slowly in cold water and quite rapidly in hot water to form the hydroxides. The precipitated hydroxides in turn may be dissolved in nitric acid. Preferably experimentation will establish optimum conditions for extracting the rare earth metals by the use of nitric acid. Alternatively other acids such as hydrochloric or sulfuric acid may effect selective dissolution of the Rare earth metals. Once dissolved the uranium may be separated from the solution of rare earths by standard solid liquid separations methods such as filtration or centrifugation.

Preferably the resulting treated nuclear fuel after rare earths and possibly Rh have been extracted is enriched by adding fresh enriched uranium oxide feed material. The removal of the rare earth elements and possibly Rh negative reactivity fission products will significantly reduce the amount of fresh enriched uranium oxide feed material required. If any amount of Zr reductant remains in the mixture there will be negligible reactivity effect. If Th reductant remains in the mixture Th will initially add negative reactivity to the fuel the magnitude being directly proportional to the Th concentration. In a reactor the Th is converted into fissile U 233 and over time the negative Th reactivity turns to positive U 233 reactivity. Even if the Th reductant remains at full concentration the UO ThOmixture is still a useful nuclear fuel and more reactive than a pure ThOcomposition and is preferably used in an advanced light water reactor LWR fuel preferably to breed additional fissile U 233 fuel for increased fuel burn up and nuclear fuel cycle length minimize plutonium production related to proliferation concerns and minimize fuel pin power peaking in LWR fuel assemblies. The UO ThOfuel mixture proportions are preferably adjusted for desired assembly reactivity requirements.

The treated nuclear fuel after oxidation if necessary now having reduced amounts of rare earths is preferably mixed with fresh enriched uranium oxide feed material for eventual reintroduction into a fission reactor. The fresh enriched uranium oxide feed material preferably has a 25 30 volume fraction of 17 weight percent enriched U 235 feed. Preferably the treated nuclear fuel is enriched by adding fresh enriched uranium oxide feed material not exceeding 17 more preferably 8 weight percent of U 235. Preferably the treated nuclear fuel with removed fission product rare earth poisons is mixed with a fresh UOfeed having 20 25 volume fraction of 6 8 weight percent enriched U 235 in UO.

Any residual Zr in the treated nuclear fuel will have no detrimental reactivity effect as Zr is neutronically inert in a fission reactor. Elimination of the Zr would however allow for a slightly higher UOnuclear fuel density.

Preferably any residual Th added to the mixture is removed. If the Th cannot be removed the UO ThOmixture is preferably used as a significantly more reactive fuel composition over ThO. In this embodiment the treated nuclear fuel with Th is used in an advanced light water fission reactor fuel design in order to reduce peripheral fission pin power peaking in a fuel assembly and to breed additional fissile U 233 fuel for increased fuel burn up.

The nuclear fuel from the nuclear fuel source and the Th or Zr from the Th or Zr source are supplied to the interior of the container . The mixer mixes the oxidized nuclear fuel and Th or Zr a mixture as described above. The heater heats the mixture . After the mixture with Th is heated by the heater rare earth metals deposits from reaction with Th will collect on the surface of the rare earth deposit collector . After the mixture with Zr is heated by the heater several different options can be employed to separate the segregated rare earth oxides from the uranium such as air classification or heating above 600 C. to convert U back to UOand chlorinating the rare earth oxides and Rh metal and Zr for vaporizing from UO.

The nuclear fuel source provides spent nuclear fuel as described above. Preferably the nuclear fuel cladding is breached and the exposed nuclear fuel is subjected to one or more oxidation and reduction steps as described above designed to produce a fine powder of 400 mesh 40 m or less and maximize the formation of UO. Alternatively an oxide fuel separated from the cladding is converted to a fine powder by ball milling as described above. The nuclear fuel preferably as a fine powder is then delivered to the interior of the container via various means. In one embodiment the nuclear fuel is delivered to the interior of the container via one or more conveyer belts pumps pressure pumps through the use of gravity or a combination thereof.

The Th or Zr source provides Th or Zr as described above. In a preferred embodiment the Th or Zr source provides Th. In an alternate embodiment the Th or Zr source provides Zr. Preferably the Th or Zr provided by the Th or Zr source is delivered to the interior of the container via various means. In one embodiment the Th or Zr is delivered to the interior of the container via one or more conveyer belts pumps pressure pumps through the use of gravity or a combination thereof.

The container is any container capable of containing the mixture at the various temperatures during operation. Preferably the container is a metal or ceramic container. In a preferred embodiment the container is a high temperature ceramic material such as alumina that is suitable for chlorination and subsequent heating to at least 1 800 C.

Preferably the container is sealed to prevent gases from escaping for example rare earth metals. In an alternate embodiment gases are allowed to escape out of the container and are processed for example cooled at a different location.

The mixer is any means of mixing the mixture . For simplicity and clarity only a single bar is depicted in as the mixer however the mixer may further comprise other various components for example motors magnets gears rods etc. Preferably the mixer is an agitator blade deposited within the mixture that is rotated via an electric motor. In an alternate embodiment a magnetic stirrer is employed. One embodiment of a magnetic stirrer comprises the use of a rotating magnetic field to cause a stir bar or flea immersed in the mixture to spin whereby the mixture is mixed. Preferably the rotating field is created by a rotating magnet or a set of stationary electromagnets. In an alternative mixer a tumbler is utilized. In one embodiment once mixed the mixture is transferred to a furnace separate from the mixer for heating. In a preferred embodiment the mixer and heater both utilize a rotating kiln for both mixing and heating.

The rare earth deposit collector collects rare earth deposits. Although the rare earth deposit collector is depicted as a bar in for simplicity it may comprise one or more additional components. In a preferred embodiment the rare earth deposit collector is a surface maintained at a temperature less than the vaporized Rare earth metals cool enough to allow rare earth metals to cool and deposit on the rare earth deposit collector . Preferably the surface is air cooled however various passive and active cooling means may be employed. For example in one embodiment the surface is cooled by one or more fans heat pumps or cooling fluids. In an alternate embodiment the rare earth deposit collector comprises a means of pumping the vaporized rare earth metals out of the container for further processing.

The heater heats the mixture within the container . Preferably the heater generates heat through combustion of fuels lasers passing of an electrical current through a resistive load particle bombardment heat pumping from an external source e.g. nuclear plant processing plant etc. solar etc.

In one exemplary embodiment a 500 ton yr processing plant is constructed to utilize four cylindrical furnaces of 2 ft diameter by 5 ft length are used to process nuclear fuel. Each cylindrical furnace preferably contains 114 kg BOL U beginning of life initial uranium mass of spent nuclear fuel spent nuclear fuel from a pressurized light water reactor with 33 GWD MTU 33 Gigawatt days metric tonne of initial uranium metal exposure and cooled for 20 years. Operating 90 on line for 292 days per year 80 operating days per year each furnace preferably has a turnaround time of 5.75 hours. Therefore if 4.0 hours is allowed for processing time and 1.75 hours for change out the throughput rate is preferably achieved. At 1 000 C. the vapor pressures of Sm and Eu are 0.0027 and 0.017 atm respectively. If a sweep gas rate of 210 standard liter min 28 second residence time in furnace is used and becomes saturated with rare earth metal vapors the mass transport rates of Sm and Eu would be 3.8 and 23 grams minute respectively. The fuel inventories would be 104 g Sm and 15.5 g Eu. Therefore only a few minutes are preferably required to remove these two rare earth metals. This calculation assumes that diffusion to the surface of the fuel particle is not rate limiting. For such a fast vaporization rate one may need to allow for additional time for the diffusive removal.

In some cases of Nd and Gd the vapor pressures are not significant until the temperature is above 1 500 C. Similar removal calculations for Nd and Gd show that for a 4.0 hour operating period 19 and 8.8 of the Nd and Gd would be swept from the fuel at 1 500 C. At 1 600 C. the percentages would be 61 and 36 for Nd and Gd respectively. At 1 800 C. the percentages would be 100 for both.

Vacuum removal is not limited by these considerations of saturation and sweep rate. With sufficient pumping speed the rate is preferably determined by the diffusion reduction processes. Therefore it is preferable to reductively vaporize the Nd and Gd substantially at lower temperatures than would be required using a sweep gas.

It is to be understood that the above described arrangements are only illustrative of the application of the principles of the present invention. Numerous modifications and alternative arrangements may be devised by those skilled in the art without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention and the appended claims are intended to cover such modifications and arrangements.

All publications and patent documents cited in this application are incorporated by reference in their entirety for all purposes to the same extent as if each individual publication or patent document were so individually denoted.

Any element in a claim that does not explicitly state means for performing a specified function or step for performing a specific function is not to be interpreted as a means or step clause as specified in 35 U.S.C. 112 6. In particular the use of step of in the claims herein is not intended to invoke the provisions of 35 U.S.C. 112 6.

