---

title: Method and system for facilitating information searching on electronic devices
abstract: A method and system for facilitating information searching for a user of an electronic device is provided. Facilitating searches involves obtaining information about the user interests, identifying potential data of interest to the user, extracting data related to the data of interest to the user, and collecting the extracted related data for presentation to the user on the device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08782056&OS=08782056&RS=08782056
owner: Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
number: 08782056
owner_city: Suwon-si
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20120511
---
This application is a continuation of prior U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 969 778 filed Jan. 4 2008 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 200 688 which claims priority from U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 898 257 filed on Jan. 29 2007. Both of the foregoing applications are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety for all purposes.

The present invention relates to providing relevant information to users and in particular to providing relevant information to users with reduced user input.

The Internet has become a popular source of entertainment and information. Most Internet content is designed for access via a web browser making it difficult for access via most consumer electronics CE devices which lack typical computer keyboards. As a result the Internet is generally restricted to access on personal computers PC or via cumbersome interfaces on CE devices.

With advances in hardware and software technologies CE devices are becoming more powerful. Growth in network infrastructure and the falling prices of hardware have increased the availability of network capable entertainment devices. Many users are configuring home networks including cable set top boxes digital television sets home media servers digital audio players personal video recorders etc. Home network consumers are also creating storing and accessing more digital content through CE devices and PCs.

A second trend running in parallel to the emergence of networked entertainment devices is the growing use of the Internet for creating and publishing content. Greater broadband penetration and falling memory prices are enabling users to move ever larger media files such as television TV shows and full length movies through the Internet.

However there is a gap between the digital content on the Internet and the networked digital entertainment devices in that most Internet content is structured and organized for access via a web browser not a typical CE device. For example typically a user searches for Internet information using a search engine or by directly accessing a known website via a PC. When using a search engine the user is required to form an initial query and then iteratively refine the query depending upon the results obtained. As such the user is forced to comprehend and analyze large quantities of information to identify access the exact information the user is looking for. This process may work on a PC but on CE devices that lack a keyboard and a mouse the searching refinement process is awkward and unpleasant. Moreover users typically expect a lean back experience when it comes to using CE devices in their homes and home networks. For instance someone watching a television news program on a television may not be inclined to conduct an Internet search if such a search requires any effort more than pushing a few buttons on a remote control.

The present invention provides a method and system for facilitating information searching for a user of an electronic device. One embodiment involves obtaining information about the user interests identifying potential data of interest to the user extracting data related to said data of interest to the user and collecting the extracted related data for presentation to the user on the device.

Identifying potential data of interest to the user may include monitoring user access to content selecting a set of extraction rules for information extraction and extracting key information from metadata for the content based on the selected extraction rules.

Selecting a set of extraction rules may include selecting a set of extraction rules based on the content type. Selecting a set of extraction rules may include selecting a set of extraction rules from a rules library based on the content type wherein the rules library includes a list of rules for extracting various keywords.

Obtaining information about the user interests may include obtaining information about current user activity on the device. Obtaining information about the user interests may further include obtaining contextual information about current user activity on the local network.

Extracting data related to said data of interest to the user may include forming a query based on potential data of interest to search for said related data. The query is executed to search for related information on a local network and or external sources. The device may comprise a consumer electronics device and executing the query may include searching the Internet for said related data.

These and other features aspects and advantages of the present invention will become understood with reference to the following description appended claims and accompanying figures.

The present invention provides a method and system for facilitating access to information via electronic devices such as consumer electronic CE devices. One embodiment involves enabling home users to easily find and access Internet content related to content presented on a CE device. An example is enabling a user to easily find and access Internet content related to a program the user is watching on a television. The user is now able to access relevant information and video content on the Internet in a lean back living room experience while watching TV.

Searching for information on the Internet typically involves two stages search query formation and data search and analysis. Query information involves forming a search query that describes the type of information being sought. Data search and analysis involves resolving the search query according to the following steps potential sources of data are identified relevant data from such sources are extracted via search queries and then aggregated collected and correlations in the form of associations among the aggregated data are identified to make the results more meaningful.

An example implementation for CE devices in a local area network LAN such as a home network is described below however the present invention is useful with other electronic devices and electronic devices that are not in a LAN but have access to the Internet. shows a functional architecture of an example network system such as a LAN of home devices embodying aspects of the present invention. The network system comprises devices such as appliances a personal computer PC CE devices which may include content and an interface that connects the network system to an external network e.g. another local network the Internet . The external network can be connected to one or more servers . The network system can implement the Universal Plug and Play UPnP protocol or other network communication protocols e.g. Jini HAVi IEEE 1394 etc. . The network system can be a wireless network a wired network or a combination thereof. Examples of CE devices include digital televisions DTVs PDAs media players etc. .

The network further includes a search facilitator system that provides searching aggregation and analysis functions. The facilitator performs query formation data search and analysis wherein query formation includes identifying potential search queries i.e. potential data of interest to the user based on the user s context. Further data search and analysis includes extracting aggregating and correlating data of interest using execution plans.

Information of interest to the user or user related information may include one or more of user profile user preferences content previously currently accessed by the user terms previously selected by the user etc.

In one example the client module enables the user to obtain desired information from e.g. the Internet using a simple and intuitive Graphical User Interface GUI application utilizing the facilitator including 

The user utilizes the client module to access certain content and the facilitator obtains information related to the accessed content for display to the user. The user then requests that the facilitator provide more information about the accessed content. For example the user utilizes the client module to request that the facilitator provide more information from Internet data sources about a pre recorded broadcast TV program the user is watching on the DTV .

Using the client module the user can choose edit or enter new queries such as the suggested keywords categories with minimal effort on a CE device that may not have a keyboard mouse. Specifically the facilitator suggests and displays queries including keywords related to the TV program and information categories related to those keywords. Using the suggested keywords and categories as search queries users can seamlessly browse search for related information available on the Internet through their CE devices by simply selecting among the suggested queries for searching. The facilitator identifies many relevant search queries and allows the user to edit a suggested query or enter a new query. The facilitator then obtains information of interest to the user and presents such information to the user.

In the architecture shown in the facilitator includes a query identification function and a query resolution function which implement the above steps. Specifically the query identification function identifies potential data of interest to the user. The query resolution function extracts identified data of potential interest to the user e.g. from local sources and or Internet sources aggregates the extracted data and correlates the aggregated data for presentation to the user. The operations of the query identification function and the query resolution function are described below.

In one example the query identification function identifies potential data of interest to the user based on the user s current application state. Current application state refers to the state of the application that the user is using at the time the user desires to access relevant Internet content. For example if the user is watching a television program on DTV the channel the DTV is tuned to and the program being broadcast constitute the application state.

The query identification function identifies the content used rendered by the application. Then the query identification function obtains metadata information and or other associated data for the content being accessed and identifies potential search queries that might represent the data of interest to the user. When a user accesses content that has structured meta data available the query identification function directly uses field value pairs from the metadata as potential search queries. For example if a user is listening to a music album by the artist Sting and expresses interest to access related content the query identification function obtains the following fields from the album s metadata content MusicAlbum artist Sting and using these the query identification function infers that the user might be interested to access more albums by the same artist and suggests MusicAlbum artist Sting as one of the search queries to the user.

When a user accesses content such as broadcast TV programs and DVDs the query identification function uses the caption data closed captions that is embedded in the content stream to identify potential search queries. This embedded caption data contains useful information in the form of keywords. When a user watches a TV program and expresses interest to access related content the query identification function analyzes the TV program s caption text to identify significant keywords and suggests them to the user as possible search queries.

The query identification function can be implemented e.g. in a stand alone module in a device such as a set top box or in a CE device such as a DTV. A user interface UI can be displayed on a device in the network system capable of displaying information such as a CE device . An example of identifying keywords and suggesting them as possible search keywords by the query identification function utilizing natural language processing NLP to analyze closed captions and identify keywords from the captions is described below.

The closed captions CC of a TV program are embedded in the TV signal by the content provider before it is broadcast. They are primarily for the benefit of the hearing impaired. Extracting useful information from this text is not straightforward. The captions typically do not contain any case information precluding any attempt to extract proper nouns based on case information. Also they are often ungrammatical e.g. because of the spoken nature of the content poorly punctuated and may have typos.

Because of these limitations typical keyword extraction techniques used for text documents may not be suitable for closed caption text. In addition the content of closed captions is highly dependent on the type of the program. A news program s captions are high content and factual whereas a sitcom s captions are typically low on content and full of slang. shows a closed caption analyzer CCA according to an embodiment of the present invention. The CCA extracts search queries from closed captions of a program using NLPs techniques and the Electronic Program Guide EPG information to customize the extraction mechanism for different types of programs.

The CCA operates in real time on broadcast signals and processes a steady stream of closed caption text entering the system. The CCA maintains two history windows over the stream of incoming text . The smaller most recent window spans the last N N 5 in our prototype sentences Si and the larger program wide window covers the entire TV program current news story current program section etc. Only the keywords extracted from the program wide window are stored and indexed for recommendation. Also the keywords extracted from the most recent window are ranked higher than others such that the most recent keywords appear at the top of the list of keywords presented to the user. As soon as the program or the news story changes indicated either by special characters in the closed captions such as in the U.S. or determined by looking at the EPG and the current time both the windows are flushed and restarted.

A CC Tokenizer receives the stream of CC text and breaks it down into sentences. This is done in order to preserve the grammar of the text. A tagger then tags sentences e.g. using Brill s part of speech tagging Brill . The tagger analyzes the sentence and determines how each word is used in the sentence. The tagger uses lexical rules to assign an initial tag to each word in a sentence and then uses contextual rules to update the tag based on the context in which the word occurs. The contextual rules are sensitive to the grammar of the input sentence. Ungrammatical or incomplete sentences may result in incorrect tagging of the words in the sentence.

This indicates that in the previous sentence John and Wayne are used as proper nouns ran is a verb in past tense and home is a noun.

This tagged sentence from the tagger is then passed on to a rule engine which extracts keywords from the tagged sentence based on extraction policy rules from a rule library . A rule library R is an exhaustive set of rules that can be used to extract different kinds of phrases appearing in the sentence. The rules are represented as tag patterns. For example it may have a rule to extract consecutive proper nouns and another rule to extract an adjective followed by one or more nouns etc. A rule selector includes a mapping from genre to an extraction policy. The genre of the program being watched determines the type of keywords to extract from the captions. For example if the program being watched is a high content factual program such as news the extraction policy is highly aggressive essentially extracting additional differing types of keywords e.g. sequences of nouns compound nouns proper nouns etc. . On the other hand if the program is a low content non factual program such as a sitcom a very conservative extraction policy is used extracting keywords very selectively extracting only those keywords considered as having a higher likelihood of being useful e.g. only proper nouns .

Each extraction policy P corresponds to a subset of the rules in R. This mapping can either be preset or it can be learned. The mapping essentially defines the kinds of patterns to be used for extracting keywords from a particular type genre of program. In one example the mapping can be determined by conducting a small user study involving four subjects asked to mark the keywords they would like to search for from CC transcripts of four types of sample programs News Sitcom Talk Show and Reality TV. The transcripts were then tagged using Brill s tagger and the tags of the marked keywords were extracted as rules e.g. if the keyword Global Warming in a news program was marked and if the words were tagged Global Warming then is extracted as a rule for the genre news . The top ranking rules based on frequency and a threshold were used as the rules that form the extraction policy for that kind of program and the union of all rules for all types of programs forms R. This facilitates reusability of rules and extraction policies. The rule engine applies the extraction policy on the text received from the tagger and extracts keywords from it. These keywords are then weighted based on whether they occur in the most recent window. The weighted keywords are then ordered and presented to the user.

The extracted keywords identify information of potential interest to the user. The query resolution function enables extracting data related to identified data of potential interest to the user aggregating the extracted data and correlating the aggregated data. Such correlation involves identifying associations between data. For example data A is similar to or the same as data B.

The query resolution function can be implemented e.g. in a stand alone module in a device such as a set top box or in a CE device such as a DTV. An example implementation of extracting aggregating and correlating data by the query resolution function utilizing query plans is described below. XML based execution plans are provided which encapsulate the steps involved in a search query resolution process. An execution plan comprises one or more plan steps and each plan step essentially specifies the type of task i.e. data extraction aggregation or correlation to be performed.

Further special classes termed RuleLets are provided to execute the three tasks i.e. data extraction aggregation or correlation in a typical query resolution process. The RuleLets are GetDataRuleLet MergeDataRuleLet and GetContentNotinHomeRuleLet. The GetDataRuleLet obtains data from different data sources the MergeDataRuleLet merges data obtained from different data sources and the GetContentNotinHomeRuleLet identifies the data content from a collection of data extracted from different sources that are not available on the home devices.

A plan step essentially specifies the RuleLet to be executed and the set of input and output parameters required for the execution of the RuleLet. The specific fields in a plan step include the name of the RuleLet to be executed the input data required for the RuleLet execution the output type expected from the execution of the RuleLet and the scope of the desired output data if applicable . The scope field is used to specify whether the required data should be available in the home Local or on the Internet. In order to cater to different kinds of search queries a plan library containing different kinds of plans is maintained. When a user chooses a search query the query resolution function identifies a plan based on the context of the user e.g. if the user is watching a TV program DVD or music video or listening to a music album .

The use of execution plans in a search scenario in conjunction with example execution plans is described below. The search scenario involves a case where a user is watching a broadcast documentary program titled Drumming Techniques on a TV. When the user expresses interest to access related Internet content the search facilitator identifies and displays potential search queries from the program s closed captions using the techniques described above by executing the following plan steps obtain the EPG related to the TV program being watched by the user obtain keyword from the EPG information obtained in the previous step obtain the genre of the TV program based on the genre obtain significant keywords from the closed captions of the TV program and merge the keywords identified from the EPG and the closed captions. An XML version of such a plan comprises 

The keywords obtained by executing this plan are then displayed to the user. One of the keywords potential search queries displayed is Polyrthymic Drumming . The user chooses Polyrthymic Drumming and expresses interest to see more related videos that the user has not seen before. To resolve this request the facilitator executes a plan with Polyrthymic Drumming set as the keyword including the plan steps obtain videos related to the keyword Polyrthymic Drumming that are available on the Internet sources identify pre recorded videos available in the home related to Polyrthymic Drumming filter out videos in the list resulting after the last step that are already available in the local sources . An XML version of such a plan comprises 

The related Internet videos that are not already available in the local sources are displayed to the user on the client module.

The CSF includes a data and query processing DQP layer . The DQP assists in resolving user queries and also provides an API for client applications to make use of. Though client applications are shown external to the CSF the client applications can also be components of the CSF . The DQP includes a query execution planner QEP and an information source manager ISM . The CSF further includes a data execution DE layer . The DE includes a data extraction manager DEM and multiple plug ins .

The QEP provides interfaces for client applications to search for and access locally available data i.e. data stored on the devices and or and related data available on the Internet. The QEP maintains a plan library containing a set of pre defined execution plans that are used to resolve requests for data. The QEP also maintains the RuleLet classes that are executed as part of a plan. When the QEP receives a query from a client application the QEP retrieves the relevant plan from its plan library and executes it. During the plan execution the QEP gathers the information content requested by the user using the plug ins in the data extraction layer via the ISM . The ISM manages a directory containing details about the types of data each data extraction plug in component could extract and the input data if any expected by the plug ins to do so. This allows the QEP to identify the plug in that provides a specific type of data.

The DE includes many plug ins for extracting content information from local and Internet data sources. Local data sources refer to e.g. home devices. Internet data sources include seed sources e.g. BarnesandNoble.com YouTube.com and Internet search engines e.g. Google Yahoo . The functionalities provided by the different plug ins include 1 A web scraper plug in allows extracting specific information from specific websites 2 A content manager plug in allows accessing media content stored on the home devices 3 An Internet video search plug in allows searching for and accessing video content on the Internet 4 A closed caption analyzer plug in allows analyzing and identifying keywords from TV captions and 5 An EPG plug in allows obtaining the EPG information for TV programs.

The DE manages the plug ins and allows new plug ins to be added or removed with minimal code changes and provides an application programming interface for the higher level components to use the plug ins.

As an example of a search facilitation process by the CSF according to the present invention wherein a TV viewer accesses the Internet is as follows A user Trisha is watching a TV program on her TV about Drumming Techniques and is intrigued by the video. She wishes to learn more about the topics discussed in the program especially about Polyrhythmic drumming which has just been mentioned. She presses a button on her TV remote control and finds a host of information regarding the program being watched. A UI graphic on the client module screen shows two menus. One menu A provides a list of keywords related to the TV program assembled by the query identification function of the CSF and the first keyword Polyrhythmic Drumming is highlighted. The other menu B shows a list of search results assembled by the query resolution function of the CSF including web links containing information and or videos related to the keyword Polyrhythmic Drumming. Trisha notices that the second link on this menu is a how to video. Using the navigation buttons on her remote control she highlights this link and then presses the enter button to select the video and start viewing it.

The above scenario illustrates the following essential features first the user need not enter text or queries at any point interaction is via the navigation buttons on a conventional remote control. Second the user is able to access desired related Internet information by pushing a few buttons as there is no need to bring up a search page or enter search terms. In this scenario the context of the user the program being watched helps focus the search to relevant content.

The process for providing relevant information to a user of a CE device on a local network such as a home network generally involves 

Identifying correlations can be performed in one or more of the following example ways 1 identifying correlations between information about current user activity and the interrelated information obtained from local sources 2 identifying correlations between information about current user activity and the interrelated information obtained from external sources and 3 identifying correlations between information about current user activity and the interrelated information obtained from local and external sources.

In order to minimize the number of keystrokes a user has to enter to receive information related to the current user activity functionalities that support information searching are mapped to a small number of keys e.g. mapping searches to a few keys of a remote control . Then certain information is gathered about current user activity on CE devices. This includes obtaining metadata contained in media that is accessible only by content rendering CE devices e.g. the length and type of content contained in a CD or a DVD .

The process further involves obtaining information embedded in broadcast streams that are accessible only by a receiving rendering CE device e.g. subtitles and closed captions . In addition information is gathered about content already existing on the home network e.g. songs by Sting that are already owned by the user and the corresponding metadata . Further information is gathered about relevant structured data that exists on the Internet e.g. gathering metadata about the songs already owned by the user from a compact disk database CDDB . Additional relevant information is obtained from semi structured data that exists on the Internet e.g. the biography of an artist from the Internet Movie Database IMDb and or from the relevant web pages . Further relevant information is gathered from unstructured data that exists on the Internet e.g. URLs of the web pages carrying the geographical economical political and cultural information about the place from which main events are being reported in the news .

The gathered obtained information defines the information at hand. Then when a user operates a CE device what the user inputs to a CE device is correlated with the information at hand to automatically form queries to search for related information. This minimizes the need for the user to generate queries or use a keyboard in forming queries.

Then from the information at hand the data extracted from the Internet sources is correlated with the data extracted from home network content to form a query plan to refine the queries for precise searching. The query plan is then executed for searching the queries on the external network e.g. the Internet other resources without requiring user intervention. The query execution results in the form of search results are then presented to the user. Preferably based on the information at hand the most relevant information from the search results is user intervention. Therefore the information presented to the user includes information of potential interest to the user as related to the information at hand.

Another example of facilitating searches for the user involves obtaining information about current user activity on a local network obtaining contextual information about current user activity on the local network obtaining additional information interrelated to the contextual information and the user activity information identifying correlations between the additional information the contextual information and the user activity information and using the correlations in forming a query to search for information related to the current user activity.

Obtaining additional information may include obtaining additional information interrelated to the contextual information and the user activity information from sources including the local network and or external sources. Identifying correlations may include identifying correlations between information about current user activity and interrelated information obtained from local sources. Identifying correlations may include identifying correlations between information about current user activity and the interrelated information obtained from external sources. Identifying correlations may include identifying correlations between information about current user activity and the interrelated information obtained from local and external sources.

Forming a query includes automatically forming a query without requiring user intervention. The query is executed to obtain search results including information related to the current user activity. Executing the query further may include executing the query to search for related information on the local network and or external sources. The search results may be presented to the user at this stage on a user interface in a device such as a CE device.

Obtaining information about current user activity on the local network may include obtaining information from user input to the device or obtaining information from applications running in the network. Obtaining additional information may include obtaining the additional information from external structured data sources. Obtaining additional information may include obtaining additional information that is relevant to user interests from local media content sources.

Obtaining additional information may include obtaining the additional information from external unstructured data sources from external semi structured data sources or from external broadcast data sources.

Obtaining contextual information about current user activity on the local network may include obtaining associated metadata available on the local network. As such forming a query may include using metadata related to the content on the local network for determining a context for query formation. Further determining a context for query formation may include using metadata related to the content in the network and information from applications on the local network to determine a context for query formation without requiring user intervention. The query may be used to search the Internet for information related to the current user activity or interest. As such the above processes also enable improved access to the Internet to the users of CE devices.

As is known to those skilled in the art the aforementioned example architectures described above according to the present invention can be implemented in many ways such as program instructions for execution by a processor program product stored on a computer useable medium computer implemented method as logic circuits as an application specific integrated circuit as firmware etc. The present invention has been described in considerable detail with reference to certain preferred versions thereof however other versions are possible. Therefore the spirit and scope of the appended claims should not be limited to the description of the preferred versions contained herein.

