---

title: Functionalized fluorescent nanocrystal compositions and methods for their preparation
abstract: The present invention provides for functionalized fluorescent nanocrystal compositions and methods for making these compositions. The compositions are fluorescent nanocrystals coated with at least one material. The coating material has chemical compounds or ligands with functional groups or moieties with conjugated electrons and moieties for imparting solubility to coated fluorescent nanocrystals in aqueous solutions. The coating material provides for functionalized fluorescent nanocrystal compositions which are water soluble, chemically stable, and emit light with a high quantum yield and/or luminescence efficiency when excited with light. The coating material may also have chemical compounds or ligands with moieties for bonding to target molecules and cells as well as moieties for cross-linking the coating. In the presence of reagents suitable for reacting to form capping layers, the compounds in the coating may form a capping layer on the fluorescent nanocrystal with the coating compounds operably bonded to the capping layer.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08906699&OS=08906699&RS=08906699
owner: Life Technologies Corporation
number: 08906699
owner_city: Carlsbad
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120828
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. Utility patent application Ser. No. 11 685 343 filed Mar. 13 2007 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 283 179 which is a continuation of U.S. Utility patent application Ser. No. 10 952 701 filed Sep. 29 2004 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 198 847 which is a continuation of U.S. Utility patent application Ser. No. 10 409 940 filed Apr. 9 2003 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 205 048 which is a continuation in part of U.S. Utility patent application Ser. No. 10 245 082 filed Sep. 17 2002 now U.S. Pat. No. 6 955 855 which claims priority from U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 379 208 filed May 9 2002 and U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 322 982 filed Sep. 17 2001 and U.S. Utility patent application Ser. No. 10 410 108 filed Apr. 9 2003 which is a continuation in part of U.S. Utility patent application Ser. No. 10 245 082 and U.S. Utility patent application Ser. No. 10 952 701 filed Sep. 29 2004 which is continuation of U.S. Utility patent application Ser. No. 10 245 082 to all of which priority is claimed and the disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety. Any disclaimer that may have occurred during the prosecution of the above referenced application s is hereby expressly rescinded.

This invention was made in part with government support under contract DAAD17 01 C 0024 with the United States Army Research Laboratory. The government has certain rights in this invention.

This invention relates to surface modification of nanocrystals with a special chemistry that imparts to the semiconductor nanocrystals properties which include water solubility protection from dissolution protection from photo auto oxidation functionalization and a marked enhancement of fluorescence intensity.

Fluorescence based analysis has become a powerful tool in scientific research clinical diagnostics and many industrial applications. However while fluorescent organic molecules such as fluorescein and phycoerethrin are used frequently in fluorescence detection systems there are disadvantages in using these molecules separately or in combination. For example photobleaching fading of intensity under light sources is a major problem that hinders the accuracy of quantitative measurements made using these molecules. In addition each type of fluorescent molecules typically requires excitation with photons of a different wavelength as compared to that required for another type of fluorescent molecules due to the relatively narrow absorption spectrum of each. Moreover even when a single light source is used to provide a single excitation wavelength often there is overlapping or insufficient spectral spacing between the emissions of different fluorescent molecules to permit individual and quantitative detection.

Semiconductor nanocrystals are now being evaluated as a promising tool of nonisotopic detection to replace conventional fluorescent molecules. Since the spectral emission characteristics of nanocrystals are a function of the size nanocrystals produced in a narrow size distribution can be excited to emit a discrete fluorescence peak of narrow bandwidth. In other words the ability to control the spectral characteristics of nanocrystals narrow bandwidth discrete emission wavelengths a single wavelength can excite an array of nanocrystals with different emissions is the major attracting point in their use. Another advantage of the nanocrystals is their resistance toward photobleaching under intensive light sources.

Examples of semiconductor nanocrystals are known in the art to have a core selected from the group consisting of CdSe CdS CdTe collectively referred to as CdX see e.g. Norris et al. 1996 Physical Review B. 53 16338 16346 Nirmal et al. 1996 Nature 383 802 804 Empedocles et al. 1996 Physical Review Letters 77 3873 3876 Murray et al. 1996 Science 270 1355 1338 Effros et al. 1996 Physical Review B. 54 4843 4856 Sacra et al. 1996 J. Chem. Phys. 103 5236 5245 Murakoshi et al. 1998 J. Colloid Interface Sci. 203 225 228 Optical Materials and Engineering News 1995 Vol. 5 No. 12 and Murray et al. 1993 J. Am. Chem. Soc. 115 8706 8714 the disclosures of which are hereby incorporated by reference and ZnS Kho et al. 2000 Biochem. Biophys. Research Commun. 272 29 35 .

As known in the art a manual batch method may be used to prepare semiconductor nanocrystals of relative monodispersity e.g. the diameter of the core varying approximately 10 between quantum dots in the preparation as has been described previously Bawendi et al. 1993 J. Am. Chem. Soc. 115 8706 . Advances in nanocrystal core production and improvements in narrowing the particle size distribution the controllability of particle size and the reproducibility of production have been achieved by a continuous flow process U.S. Pat. No. 6 179 912 the disclosure of which is herein incorporated by reference . Core semiconductor nanocrystals however exhibit low fluorescence intensity upon excitation lack of water solubility lack of surface functional groups for linking with target molecules and additionally susceptibility to dissociation and degradation in aqueous environments with high ionic strength. The low fluorescence intensity has been ascribed to a leak of exciton to the outer phase to the presence of surface energy states that act as traps which degrade the fluorescence properties of the core nanocrystal or to intermediate states of non radiative relaxations.

Efforts to improve the fluorescence intensity involve passivating or capping the outer surface of a core nanocrystal in order to reduce or eliminate the surface energy states. Inorganic materials with higher band gap energy have been used for passivation i.e. core nanocrystals have been passivated with an inorganic coating shell uniformly deposited on the surface of the core nanocrystals. The shell which is typically used to passivate CdX core nanocrystals is preferably comprised of YZ wherein Y is Cd Hg or Zn and Z is S or Se or Te. However these passivated semiconductor nanocrystals have been reported to have a limited improvement in fluorescence intensity with reference to quantum yield and to have solubility in organic solvents only. Organic molecules such as tri n octyl phosphine TOP and tri n octyl phosphine oxide TOPO have been also used to coat nanocrystals see Murray et al. 1993 J. Am. Chem. Soc. 115 8706 8714 Hines and Guyot Sionnest 1996 J. Phys. Chem. 100 pp 468 Dabbousi et al. 1997 J. Phys. Chem. 101 9463 . Coatings with these molecules have been reported to produce limited improvement in fluorescence intensity and provide the coated nanocrystals with solubility only in organic solvents. Furthermore the molecules coating the nanocrystal are easily displaced by different solvents.

To make fluorescent nanocrystals useful in biological applications or detection systems utilizing an aqueous environment it is desirable that the fluorescent nanocrystals used in the detection system are water soluble. Water soluble is used herein to mean sufficiently soluble or suspendable in an aqueous solution such as in water or water based solutions or buffer solutions including those used in biological or molecular detection systems as known by those skilled in the art. Particles and surfaces may also be characterized by their ability to be wet by a fluid. The fluid may be water or a solution of water and other liquids like ethanol. One method to impart water solubility or wettability to semiconductor nanocrystals e.g. CdX core YZ shell nanocrystals is to exchange the overcoating layer of TOP or TOPO with a coating or capping compound which will impart some water solubility. For example a mercaptocarboxylic acid may be used as a capping compound to exchange with the organic layer see e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 6 114 038 the disclosure of which is herein incorporated by reference see also Chan and Nie 1998 Science 281 2016 2018 . The thiol group of monothiol capping compound bonds with the Cd S or Zn S bonds depending on the composition of the nanocrystal creating a coating which is to some extent not easily displaced in solution and imparting some stability to the nanocrystals in suspension.

Another method to make the CdX core YZ shell nanocrystals water soluble or wettable is by the formation of a coating of silica around the semiconductor nanocrystals Bruchez Jr. et. 1998 Science 281 2013 2015 U.S. Pat. No. 5 990 479 utilizing a mercapto based linker to link the glass to the semiconductor nanocrystals. An extensively polymerized polysilane shell has been reported to impart water solubility or wettability to nanocrystalline materials as well as allowing further chemical modifications of the silica surface.

Depending on the nature of the coating compound coated semiconductor nanocrystals which have been reported as water soluble may have limited stability in an aqueous solution particularly when exposed to air oxygen and or light. For example oxygen and light can cause mercapto based monothiols used in capping and passivation of nanocrystals to become catalytically oxidized thereby forming disulfides which destabilize the attachment of the coating and might even play a role in oxidizing the core semiconductor see e.g. Aldana et al. 2001 J. Am. Chem. Soc. 123 8844 8850 . Thus oxidation may cause the capping layer to migrate away from the surface of the nanocrystals thereby exposing the surface of the nanocrystals resulting in destabilized nanocrystals that eventually form nonsolubule aggregates with low fluorescence intensity. In addition current means for passivating semiconductor nanocrystals are still rather inefficient in increasing the fluorescence intensity to a level desired for detection systems e.g. in providing a significant increase in sensitivity in fluorescence based detection systems as compared to currently available fluorescent dyes .

As is evident from current progress in the process of producing semiconductor nanocrystals it is important to supply the nanocrystals with a stable and protective capping layer to achieve the desired combinations of properties. In other words it is desirable that the capping layer be designed in such a way that it is able to impart to the semiconductor nanocrystals improvement in fluorescence efficiency quantum yield water solubility stability in aqueous solutions stability in media with high ionic strength resistance to the exposure to hostile environment with light oxygen and ions and the ability to bind ligands molecules probes of various types and solid supports. Additionally there remains a need for a nonisotopic detection system which results in generation of a signal comprising fluorescence emission of high intensity can result in signal amplification is not limited as to the chemical nature of the target molecule to be detected e.g. versus detection of nucleic acid molecules only can be used to bind molecular probes of various types affinity molecules oligonucleotides nucleobases and the like and can result in simultaneous detection of more than one type of target molecule by utilizing a class of nonisotopic molecules that may be excited with a single excitation light source and with resultant fluorescence emissions with discrete fluorescence peaks that can be spectrally distinguished from each other e.g. using detection means for fluorescence that is standard in the art .

It is an object of the present invention to provide fluorescent nanocrystals which provides a combination of properties including a significant enhancement of fluorescence intensity water solubility physical and chemical stability and functionalization.

The present invention provides for functionalized fluorescent nanocrystal compositions and methods for making these compositions. The compositions are fluorescent nanocrystals coated with at least one material. The coating material has chemical compounds or ligands with functional groups or moieties with conjugated electrons and moieties for imparting high luminescence efficiency and solubility to coated fluorescent nanocrystals in aqueous solutions. The coating material provides for functionalized fluorescent nanocrystal compositions which are water soluble chemically stable and emit light with a quantum yield of greater than 10 and preferably greater than 50 when excited with light. The coating material may also have chemical compounds or ligands with moieties for bonding to target molecules and cells as well as moieties for cross linking the coating. In the presence of reagents suitable for reacting to form capping layers the compounds in the coating may form a capping layer on the fluorescent nanocrystal with the coating compounds operably bonded to the capping layer.

The present invention provides compositions comprising functionalized stable and fluorescent nanocrystals for use in nonisotopic detection systems and methods of making the same. The functionalized fluorescent nanocrystals are coated with a material comprised of a heteroaromatic compound or ligand with functional groups or moieties for imparting solubility to coated fluorescent nanocrystals in aqueous solutions. The coating material provides for functionalized fluorescent nanocrystal compositions which are water soluble chemically stable and emit with high efficiency light with a quantum yield of greater 10 and preferably greater than 50 when excited with light. Depending upon the ligands comprising the material coating the fluorescent nanocrystals the functionalized fluorescent nanocrystals of the present invention may be soluble in other liquids for example water and isopropyl alcohol mixture or liquids with surface tensions below about 80 dynes cm and preferably in the range from about 30 72 dynes cm. The coating material may also have chemical compounds or ligands like isocyanates alkyl cyanoacrylates or alkyl phosphines with moieties for bonding to target molecules and cells as well as moieties for cross linking the coating. In the presence of suitable reagents for example but not limited to ZnSOand NaS the compounds in the coating may form a capping layer on the fluorescent nanocrystal with the coating compounds operably bonded to the capping layer.

The present invention provides compositions comprising functionalized stable and fluorescent nanocrystals for use in nonisotopic detection systems and methods of making the same. The fluorescent nanocrystal composition is a core fluorescent nanocrystal coated with an imidazole containing compound cross linked with an alkyl phosphine containing compound and complexed e.g. by adduct formation with an inorganic semiconductor capping layer.

The coating materials of the present invention enhance the fluorescence intensity of the core nanocrystal by several folds. Further the functionalized fluorescent nanocrystals according to the present invention are very soluble and stable in aqueous media at different pH levels.

The functionalized nanocrystals described in this invention display an unexpected increase in fluorescence intensity as compared to other semiconductor nanocrystal formulations known in the art. Intra unit energy transfer between the imidazoles and the core nanocrystals may be playing a major role in the fluorescence enhancement. Other mechanisms may also account for such increase in fluorescence intensity imparted to these functionalized fluorescent nanocrystals may essentially include but are not limited to eliminating mid band and intermediate states passivation charge dislocation higher band energy condensation and resonance modification of the bandgap of the shell semiconductor or a combination thereof. The concept of passivation has been previously described herein. The passivating effect is due to the capping of surface Cd or Zn atoms or the like by imidazole complexation and to the capping of the counter atoms Se or S or the like by complexation with the alkyl phosphine containing compounds. As to charge dislocation imidazole and alkyl phosphine moieties present in the coating may be susceptible to excitation by a sufficient light source. Such excitation may lead to charge transfer from the imidazole and or alkyl phosphine moieties to the nanocrystal structure thereby resulting in an increase in fluorescence intensity as compared to a fluorescence intensity without such internal charge transfer internal charge transfer meaning a transfer of energy that substantially comprises a transfer within the structure of a coated nanocrystal of which the imidazole and or alkyl phosphine are part of as opposed to a transfer limited only to a transfer of energy between neighboring nanocrystals . As for energy condensation and fluorescence it is anticipated that the integration of the electrons in the imidazole and phosphine moieties with the excited electrons at the higher energy band of the core crystal is producing an energy condensation effect that yields higher level of electron hole coupling followed by radiative relaxation. Chemical modifications of semiconductor surfaces with organic or inorganic molecules can shift the band edges of a semiconductor positive or negative JECS 142 2625 1995 . Since strong surface capping and passivation of core semiconductor nanocrystals by higher band gap energy materials or organic passivators e.g. TOPO do not significantly enhance the fluorescence intensity of core semiconductor nanocrystals it seems that energy condensation energy transfer and eliminating intermediate and mid band exciton states are the major factors that underlie the fluorescence enhancement. The functionalized fluorescent nanocrystals of the present invention are functionalized to be water soluble and to contain one or more reactive functionalities to which a molecular probe may be operably bound. The overall structure of the functionalized fluorescent nanocrystals of the present invention closely resembles the structure of a miniature light emitting diode LED where the coating materials used in this invention play the roles of hole blocking layer and electron transport layer.

Luminescence is the emission of light from any substance and occurs from electronically excited states. Luminescence is divided into two categories fluorescence and phosphorescence depending on the nature of the excited state. When the return of the excited electrons to the ground state is spin allowed the return is fast and this process is termed fluorescence typically a 10 nano second process . When the return of electrons to the ground states is spin forbidden it takes longer time 100 ns and the emitted light is termed phosphorescence. Luminescence efficiency means the amount of light in candela units for example that can be produced from a certain amount of nanocrystals using unlimited source of energy for example beta emitter light recombination of injected charge carriers or electrical current. The term quantum yield or efficiency in this case is different because it describes the ratio of energy recovery after applying certain amount of energy as photons while luminescence efficiency is different because it describes the full capacity of the nanocrystals or a light source apart from the amount of energy applied. In the practice of embodiments of the present invention either the Quantum yield the luminescence efficiency or both are increased by the coating material compositions of this invention.

In other embodiments of this invention the ligands of functionalized fluorescent nanocrystal may increase the fluorescence efficiency quantum yield upon binding to the surface of the nanocrystal. In another embodiment of this invention the ligands of the functionalized fluorescent nanocrystals may increase the fluorescence efficiency by one or more of the following mechanisms internal energy transfer antenna effect energy condensation elimination of intermediate and mid band exciton states and surface passivation.

The above and other objects features and advantages of the present invention will be apparent in the following DETAILED DESCRIPTION of the invention when read in conjugation with accompanying drawings in which reference numerals denote the same or similar parts throughout the several illustrated views and embodiments.

Throughout the specification of the application various terms are used such as primary secondary first second and the like. These terms are words of convenience in order to distinguish between different elements and such terms are not intended to be limiting as to how the different elements may be utilized.

By the term target molecule is meant for the purpose of the specification and claims to refer to a molecule of an organic or inorganic nature the presence and or quantity of which is being tested for and which contains a molecular component e.g. ligand or sequence or epitope or domain or portion or chemical group or reactive functionality or determinant or the like for which a molecular probe has binding specificity. The molecule may include but is not limited to a nucleic acid molecule protein glycoprotein eukaryotic cell prokaryotic cell lipoprotein peptide carbohydrate lipid phospholipid aminoglycans chemical messenger biological receptor structural component metabolic product enzyme antigen drug therapeutic toxin inorganic chemical organic chemical a substrate and the like. The target molecule may be in vivo in vitro in situ or ex vivo.

By the term molecular probe is meant for purposes of the specification and claims to mean a molecule which has binding specificity and avidity for a molecular component of or associated with a target molecule. In general molecular probes are known to those skilled in the art to include but are not limited to lectins or fragments or derivatives thereof which retain binding binding function monoclonal antibodies mAb including chimeric or genetically modified monoclonal antibodies which may be preferable for administration to humans . Peptides aptamers and nucleic acid molecules including but not limited to single stranded RNA or single stranded DNA or single stranded nucleic acid hybrids oligonucleotide analogs backbone modified oligonucleotide analogs morpholino based polymers and nucleobases. The term nucleobase is used herein to refer to a nucleic acid moiety including but not limited to nucleosides including derivatives or functional equivalents thereof and synthetic or modified nucleosides and particularly a nucleoside comprising a reactive functionality e.g. free amino group or carboxyl group nucleotides including dNTPs ddNTPs derivatives or functional equivalents thereof and particularly a nucleotide comprising a reactive functionality e.g. free amino group or carboxyl group acyclonucleoside triphosphates see e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 5 558 991 3 2 amino modified nucleosides 3 2 amino modified nucleotides 3 2 thiol modified nucleosides 3 2 thiol modified nucleotides see e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 5 679 785 alkylamino nucleotides see e.g. as a chain terminator U.S. Pat. No. 5 151 507 nucleoside thiotriphosphates see e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 5 187 085 and the like. The term monoclonal antibody is also used herein for purposes of the specification and claims to include immunoreactive fragments or derivatives derived from a mAb molecule which fragments or derivatives retain all or a portion of the binding function of the whole mAb molecule. Such immunoreactive fragments or derivatives are known to those skilled in the art to include F ab 2 Fab Fab Fv scFV Fd and Fd fragments. Methods for producing the various fragments or derivatives from mABs are well known in the art see e.g. Pluckthum 1992 Immunol. Rev. 130 152 188 for example via pepsin digestion papain digestion reduction of disulfide bridges and methods described in U.S. Pat. No. 4 642 334 . Single chain antibodies can be produced as described in U.S. Pat. No. 4 946 778. The construction of chimeric antibodies is now a straightforward procedure Adair 1992 Immunological Reviews 130 5 40 in which the chimeric antibody is made by joining the murine variable region to a human constant region. Additionally humanized antibodies may be made by joining the hypervariable regions of the murine monoclonal antibody to a constant region and portions of variable region light chain and heavy chain sequences of human immunoglobulins using one of several techniques known in the art Adair 1992 supra Singer et al. 1993 J. Immunol. 150 2844 2857 . Methods for making a chimeric non human human mAb in general are described in detail in U.S. Pat. No. 5 736 137. Aptamers can be made using methods described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 789 157. Lectins and fragments thereof are commercially available. Oligonucleotide analogs backbone modified oligonucleotide analogs and morpholino based polymers can be made using methods described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 969 135 and 5 596 086 U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 602 240 and 5 034 506 respectively. Molecular probe may also be used herein to refer to a plurality of molecules of molecular probe which may be operably bound to a functionalized fluorescent nanocrystal.

By the terms operably bind and operably bound are meant for purposes of the specification and claims to refer to fusion or bond or an association of sufficient stability for the purposes of use in detection systems as described herein and standard conditions associated therewith as known in the art formed between a combination of different molecules including but not limited to between a coating compound and fluorescents nanocrystal between a coating compound and molecular probe between different molecular probes and between molecular probe and target molecule. A coating may comprise one or more ligands. As known to those skilled in the art and as will be more apparent by the following embodiments there are several methods and compositions in which two or more molecules may be operably bound utilizing reactive functionalities. Reactive functionalities include but are not limited to bifunctional reagents e.g. homobifunctional or heterobifunctional biotin avidin free chemical groups e.g. thiol or carboxyl hydroxyl amino amine sulfo and the like and reactive chemical groups reactive with free chemical groups . As known to those skilled in the art the bond may compromise but is not limited to one or more of covalent ionic hydrogen van der waals and the like.

By the term imidazole containing compound is meant for purposes of the specification and claims to refer to a heterocyclic or heteroaromatic molecule or ligand in a coating that has at least one imidazole group e.g. imidazole ring available for binding with the fluorescent nanocrystal or capping compound a metal such as zinc cadmium gallium or other metal cation or substrate containing such cation. In that respect preferably at least one imidazole moiety is in a terminal position with respect to the structure of the molecule. The imidazole containing compound operably bonds to the fluorescent nanocrystal through the imidazole ring which comprises delocalized molecular orbitals. Generally imidazole ring nitrogens serve as coordinating ligand as illustrated in to operably bind a metal ion such as zinc or cadmium. In a preferred embodiment the imidazole containing compound comprises additional reactive functionalities such as an amino acid or two or more amino acids joined together e.g. known in the art as peptidyl or oligopeptide which may include but is not limited to histidine carnosine anserine baleine homocarnosine histidylphenylalanine cyclo histidylphenylalanine 5 amino 4 imidazolecarboxamide histidylleucine 2 mercaptoimidazole boc histidine hydrazide histidinol 1 methylhistidine 3 methylhistidine imidazolysine imidazole containing ornithine e.g. 5 methylimidazolone imidazole containing alanine e.g. beta 2 imidazolyl L alpha alanine carcinine histamine and the like. These histidine based molecules or imidazole containing amino acids may be synthesized using methods known in the art see e.g. Stankova et al. 1999 J. Peptide Sci. 5 392 398 the disclosure of which is herein incorporated by reference .

By the term amino acid is meant as known in the art and for purposes of the specification and claims to refer to a compound or ligand containing at least one amino group and at least one carboxyl group. As known in the art an amino group may occur at the position adjacent to a carboxyl group or may occur at any location for example and amino acids along the amino acid molecule. In addition to at least one imidazole moiety the amino acid may further comprise one or more additional reactive functionalities e.g. amino thiol carboxyl carboxamide etc. . The amino acid may be a naturally occurring amino acid a synthetic amino acid a modified amino acid an amino acid derivative an amino acid precursor in D dextro form or in L levo form. Examples of derivatives may include but are not limited to an n methylated derivative amide or ester as known in the art. Consistent with the functionality of the amino acid it acts as a coating for the fluorescent nanocrystals and may impart water solubility buffer sufficiently in a pH range between about pH 6 and about pH 10 functions as a coat which can increase fluorescence intensity and has one or more reactive functionalities that may be used to operably bind at least one molecular probe. An amino acid of the aforementioned amino acids may be used in a preferred embodiment and a preferred amino acid may be used separately in the composition of the present invention to the exclusion of amino acids other than the preferred amino acid. Carnosine alanyl histidine is a preferred histidine based or imidazole containing compound for coating the functionalized fluorescent nanocrystals according to the present invention.

Other molecules or ligands may be used in place of imidazole in the practice of this invention. These ligands such as those disclosed in Cotton and Wilkinson 3Ed Chapter 21 may operably bond to fluorescent nanocrystal surfaces coordinate or chelate metal ions and preferably have Lewis base properties and or conjugated moieties. These molecules may also have moieties for imparting solubility or wettability in aqueous solutions to fluorescent nanocrystals coated with them. The molecules may also have chemical moieties for bonding to target molecules and cells as well as moieties for cross linking them. In the presence of reagents suitable reagents like ZnSOand NaS these molecules or compounds may react to form a capping layer on the fluorescent nanocrystal with the molecules operably bonded to the capping layer. The molecules may also operably bond to atoms or ions on the surface of the nanocrystal. The result of using these molecules or compounds is a functionalized nanocrystal with enhanced luminescence water solubility and chemical stability. These molecules or compounds have at least one Lewis acid and or a conjugated moiety in a terminal position with respect to the structure of the molecule. Generally cyclic or linear unsaturated compounds with resonating electrons or with resonating heterogeneous rings frequently serve as coordinating ligand to operably bind a metal ion such as zinc or mercury or cadmium. The ligand bonds to the fluorescent nanocrystal with its moiety that comprises delocalized molecular orbitals as illustrated in . These molecules or compounds may comprise a heterogeneous ring or two or more joined together examples include but are not limited to thiazole thiazole derivatives oxazole oxazole derivatives pyrrole pyrrole derivatives including doped or undoped poly pyrrole oligomers thiophene thiophene derivatives including doped or undoped poly thiophenes furan furan derivatives pyridine pyridine derivatives pyrimidine pyrimidine derivatives pyrazine pyrazine derivatives triazine triazine derivatives triazole triazole derivatives phthalocyanine phthalocyanine derivatives porphyrin porphyrin derivatives. These compounds may comprise unsaturated olefin hydrocarbons or their amine phosphorus oxygen derivatives which may include but are not limited to acetylene propyne and allene. It is preferred that the molecule have suffucient p electron density to engage in adduct formation or resonance on the surface of the semiconductor nanocrystal.

By the term alkyl phosphine cross linking compound is meant for purposes of the specification and claims to refer to a molecule or ligand that has at least one phosphine group available for binding or chelating a non metal such as Se S or other non metals or substrate containing such atoms and has at least one functional group e.g. hydroxyl amino thiol carboxyl carboxamide etc with ability to react with neighboring molecules. In that respect preferably at least one phosphine moiety is in a terminal position with respect to the structure of the molecule as illustrated in . Generally phosphine moieties frequently serve as coordinating ligand to operably bind with the fluorescent nanocrystal or capping compound a non metal or ion such as Se or S. In a preferred embodiment the alkyl phosphine containing compound comprises a phosphine group or two or more phosphine groups joined together e.g. in a polymeric form which may include but is not limited to hydroxymethylphosphine compounds and the like. Alkyl phosphine containing compounds may be synthesized using methods known in the art see e.g. Tsiavaliaris et al. 2001 Synlett. 3 391 393 Hoffman et al 2001 Bioconjug Chem 12 354 363 U.S. Pat. No. 5 948 386 . As known in the art an alkyl phosphine containing compound may further comprise one or more additional reactive functionalities e.g. hydroxyl amino thiol carboxyl carboxamide etc. . Examples of derivatives may include but are not limited to a hydroxy methyl phosphine derivative amide or ester as known in the art and where consistent with the functions of the alkyl phosphine as a coating as described herein e.g. imparts water solubility buffers sufficiently in a pH range between about pH 6 and about pH 10 functions as a coat and cross linker which can increase stability and fluorescence intensity and has one or more reactive functionalities that may be used to operably bind molecular probe . An alkyl phosphine of the aforementioned derivatives may be used in a preferred embodiment and a preferred alkylphosphine may be used separately in the composition of the present invention to the exclusion of alkyl phosphines other than the preferred alkyl phosphine. Tris hydroxy methyl phosphine and beta Tris hydroxymethyl phosphino propionic acid are particularly preferred alkyl phosphine containing compound for coating stabilizing and functionalizing fluorescent nanocrystals according to the present invention. Also known in the art is that cross linked alkyl phosphine containing compounds have additional ability to operably bind to metal atoms and or ions such as zinc and cadmium. In this respect functionalized isocyanates or alkyl cyanoacrylates may also be useful for cross linking ligands and adduct formation with fluorescent nanocrystals in the practice of this invention.

The nanocrystal coated with the coating material of the present invention may further comprise an additional layer on the surface of the coating material. The moieties of the layer may be organic or inorganic and provide chemical compatibility reactivity or solubility with a fluid or suspension media. For example additional amino acids like arginine may be coupled to the imidazole containing group in the coating material or short chain polymer or peptide sequences like arginine glycine serine with the serine hydroxyl moiety interacting with the suspending medium may be used in the practice if this invention. Amino acids and other such groups will have an affinity for the amino acid portion of the imidazole containing group of the coating material and may be reacted with them using standard coupling reactions.

By the term fluorescent nanocrystals is meant for purposes of the specification and claims to refer to nano crystals comprising semiconductor nanocrystals or doped metal oxide nanocrystals to which may be operably bound various ligands including histidine based or imidazole containing compounds and phosphonium compounds. Semiconductor nanocrystals is meant for purposes of the specification and claims to refer to quantum dots also known as crystallite semiconductors comprised of a core comprised of at least one of a Group II VI semiconductor material of which ZnS HgS and CdSe are illustrative examples or a Group III V semiconductor material of which GaAs is an illustrative example or a Group IV semiconductor nanocrystal or a combination thereof. These core semiconductor nanocrystals may further comprise and be passivated with a shell or capping layer of material uniformly deposited on the core. The capping layer material may be comprised of an inorganic material with a higher band gap than the core nanocrystal. Inorganic materials typically used to passivate CdX X S Se Te core nanocrystals are preferably comprised of YZ where Y is Cd Hg or Zn and Z is S Se or Te. Core CdX nanocrystals with a YZ shell can be made by the methods in see e.g. Danek et al. 1996 Chem. Mater. 8 173 179 Dabbousi et al. 1997 J. Phys. Chem. B 101 9463 Rodriguez Viejo et al. 1997 Appl. Phys. Lett. 70 2132 2134 Peng et al. 1997 J. Am. Chem. Soc. 119 7019 7029 1996 Phys. Review B. 53 16338 16346 the disclosures of which are hereby incorporated by reference . The core nanocrystal with the capping layer may include 0 to about 5.3 monolayers of the capping semiconductor material preferably it includes less than about 1 monolayer of the capping semiconductor material. As known to those skilled in the art the size of the core of the semiconductor nanocrystal correlates with the spectral range of emission. Table 1 is an illustrative example for CdSe.

In a preferred embodiment the semiconductor nanocrystals are produced using a continuous flow process and system see U.S. Pat. No. 6 179 912 and may have a particle size that varies by less than 10 in the average particle size as measured by diameter in the range of approximately 1 nanometer nm to approximately 20 nm. Semiconductor nanocrystals useful in the practice of various embodiments of this invention may also be characterized in that the dimensions of the nanocrystals are comparable or smaller than their bulk exciton diameter so that they exhibit size dependent optoelectronic properties.

By the term doped metal oxide nanocrystals is meant for purposes of the specification and claims to refer to nanocrystals comprised of a metal oxide and a dopant comprised of one or more rare earth elements. For example metal oxides include but are not limited to yttrium oxide YO zirconium oxide ZrO zinc oxide ZnO copper oxide CuO or CuO gadolinium oxide GdO praseodymium oxide PrO lanthanum oxide LaO and alloys thereof. Doped metal oxide nanocrystals with rare earth elements may include but are not limited to oxides of elements selected from the Lanthanide series such as europium Eu cerium Ce neodymium Nd samarium Sm terbium Tb gadolinium Gd holmium Ho thulium Tm and alloys containing these elements. As known to those skilled in the art depending on the dopant an energized doped metal oxide nanocrystal is capable of emitting light of a particular color. Thus the nature of the rare earth or rare earths are selected in consequence to the color sought to be imparted emitted by a doped metal oxide nanocrystal used to label a microsphere according to the present invention. A given rare earth or rare earth metal combination in a doped metal oxide has a given color. By adjusting the nature of the dopant and or the concentration of the dopant the doped metal oxide nanocrystals may emit with a narrow emission peak a color over an entire range of colors. For example the emission color and brightness e.g. intensity of a doped metal oxide nanocrystal comprising YO Eu may depend on the concentration of the Eu dopant e.g. emission color may shift from yellow to red with increasing Eu concentration. For purposes of illustration only representative colors which may be provided by various dopants in YOare listed in Table 2.

Methods for making doped metal oxide nanocrystals are known to include but are not limited to a sol gel process see e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 5 637 258 and an organometallic reaction. As will be apparent to one skilled in the art the dopant e.g. one or more rare earth elements are incorporated into the doped metal oxide nanocrystal in a sufficient amount to permit the doped metal oxide nanocrystal to be put to practical use in fluorescence detection. Without enough dopant the doped metal oxide nanocrystal would fail to emit sufficient detectable fluorescence too much dopant which would cause reduced fluorescence due to concentration quenching. In a preferred embodiment the amount of dopant in a doped metal oxide nanocrystal is a molar amount in the doped metal oxide nanocrystal selected in the range of from about 0.1 to about 25 . Doped metal oxide nanocrystals may be excited with a single excitation light source resulting in a detectable fluorescence emission of high quantum yield e.g. a single nanocrystal having at a fluorescence intensity that may be a log or more greater than that a molecule of a conventional fluorescent dye and with a discrete fluorescence peak. Typically doped metal oxide nanocrystals have a substantially uniform size of less than 200 Angstroms and preferably have a substantially uniform size in the range of sizes of from about 1 nm to about 5 nm. In one embodiment the doped metal oxide nanocrystals are comprised of metal oxides doped with one or more rare earth elements wherein the dopant comprising the rare earth element is capable of being excited e.g. with ultraviolet light to produce a narrow spectrum of fluorescence emission. In another embodiment the doped metal oxide has both fluorescent properties when excited with an excitation light source and magnetic properties thus a polymeric microsphere which is substantially nonmagnetic embedded or labeled with a plurality of fluorescent nanocrystals comprising doped metal oxide nanocrystals which are magnetic material may form fluorescent microspheres which are magnetic.

By the term functionalized fluorescent nanocrystals is meant for purposes of the specification and claims to refer to fluorescent nanocrystals which are coated. The coating may include but is not limited to cations ligands molecules with conjugated moieties as well as lyophilic and bonding moieties cross linking molecules and molecular probes. An example of such a material coating is an imidazole containing compound and alkyl phosphine containing compound.

Functionalized fluorescent nanocrystals according to the present invention are soluble in aqueous solutions and other fluids depending upon the ligands comprising the material coating. For example they may be soluble in water water and isopropyl alcohol mixtures or liquids with surface tensions below about 80 dynes cm and preferably in the range from about 30 73 dynes cm. The solvent or solvent mixture used to solublize or suspend the functionalized nanocrystals may have a surface energy which is about the same as the surface energy of the particular coating material of the functionalized nanocrystal. The surface energy of coating will vary with the molecular properties and amount of the ligands in the coating material preferably the moiety of the coating material is compatible soluble and chemically stable with the fluids it is contacted with. Chemically stable moieties of the coating material maintain the fluorescent emission intensity over time as required by the application of the functionalized fluorescent nanocrystals. The functionalized nanocrystals FNC of the present invention were soluble in water mixtures of water and glycerol 50 water and ethanol 10 water and methanol 50 35 dynes cm water and DMSO 50 water and polyethylene glycol 200 50 and water and isopropyl alcohol 50 . The FNC were also soluble in 100 of glycerol isopropyl alcohol particularly after adding other solvents to isopropyl alcohol. The functionalized fluorescent may operably bond molecular probes and target molecules have increased fluorescence intensity when excited by a suitable excitation source and may further demonstrate chemical stability in a pH range of from about pH 6.0 to about 10.5. Preferred functionalized fluorescent nanocrystals may be produced and used in the method and system as according to present invention to the exclusion of functionalized fluorescent nanocrystals other than the preferred functionalized fluorescent nanocrystals.

In a preferred embodiment to form the functionalized fluorescent nanocrystals according to the present invention a core nanocrystal may be coated by the co precipitation of a compound comprising a metal cation e.g. for forming a semiconductor material preferably with a high bad gap energy as known in the art shell operably bound to an imidazole containing compound and to an alkyl phosphine containing compound wherein the coat is uniformly deposited over the outer surface of the nanocrystal core. This is both functionally and fundamentally different than using zinc histidine as nucleation centers for growing core nanocrystals see Kho et al. 2000 Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 272 29 35 . As an example of this preferred embodiment a Group II VI semiconductor core may be capped with a Group II VI semiconductor shell e.g. a ZnS or CdSe core may be coated with a shell comprised of YZ wherein Y is Cd or Zn and Z is S or Se and further coated with an imidazole containing compound cross linked with an alkyl phosphine containing compound. Preferably both the semiconductor shell and imidazole containing compound cross linked with the alkyl phosphine containing compound coating passivate the outer surface of the core nanocrystal and result in enhanced fluorescence.

In another embodiment a core shell nanocrystal e.g. CdX core YZ shell produced using methods standard in the art is coated with a metal cation preferably capable of forming a semiconductor material like ZnS with a high band gap energy operably bound to an imidazole containing compound cross linked with an alkyl phosphine containing compound. The coating is uniformly deposited over the outer surface of the core shell nanocrystal.

In another embodiment a fluorescent nanocrystal may be coated with a material that has an imidazole containing compound cross linked with alkyl phosphine containing compound that produces the functionalized fluorescent nanocrystals according to the present invention. The functionalized fluorescent nanocrystal composition may luminescence with an efficiency of greater than about 10 fold of that of non coated fluorescent nanocrystals when irradiated with light or other source of excitation.

In yet another embodiment a fluorescent nanocrystal may be coated with a coating comprising an imidazole containing compound and alkyl phosphine containing compound.

In another embodiment the functionalized fluorescent nanocrystals according to the present invention further comprises chemical or physical cross linking of the coating material comprising imidazole containing compound and alkyl phosphine containing compound to promote further stabilization of the coat of the functionalized fluorescent nanocrystal. Chemical cross linking can be achieved by using methods and reagents known in the art which may include but are not limited to formaldehyde glutaraldehyde acrolein 1 6 hexane bis vinylsulfone putrescine alkyl diamines and other organic triamines or polyamines. Physical cross linking and or curing can also be achieved by using methods known in the art which may include but are not limited to ultraviolet irradiation microwave treatment heat treatment and radiation.

Excitation sources suitable for characterizing the functionalized fluorescent nanocrystals of this invention include but are not limited to polychromatic ultraviolet and visible lamps substantially monochromatic sources light polarized light beta emitters including but not limited to P I and H. Sources of light may include low medium and high pressure lamps as well as lasers. Electric current and electron bombardment of the nanocrystals may also be used for excitation. Suitable detectors may include but are not limited to visual detection photodiodes photomultipliers heat detectors and charge coupled device detectors CCDs detectors may also include the use of polarizing filters.

The functionalized fluorescent nanocrystal prepared by the methods and materials of embodiments of the present invention may be characterized by luminescent efficiency or quanum yield. For example fluorescent nanocrystals that have been coated with an imidazole containing or ligand with delocalized electrons operably bonded to the nanocrystal may be excited with a light source and the number of photons from the fluorescence measured to characterize the Quantum Yield of the complex. Alternatively the coated fluorescent nanocrystals may be connected to anodes and cathodes as know to those skilled in the art and luminescent output based on injected charge used to characterize the luminescent efficiency of the functionalized fluorescent nanocrystal. Adjustment to the amount and type of imidazole containing ligand phosphine cross linker cross linker or other parameters may be made and used to change the luminescent properties of the coated crystals.

An effective amount of a coating is an amount of coating where the steric interactions of the coating molecules determined by size intermolecular bonding cross linking and operable bonding to target molecules and their electronic interaction with the fluorescent nanocrystal are such that the functionalized fluorescent nanocrystal has a quantum yield in excess of 10 and preferably in excess of 50 when excited with light.

The present invention provides compositions comprising functionalized fluorescent nanocrystals which can be used in a variety of types of fluorescence based detection systems. Examples include but are not limited to building three dimensional dendrimers which function to generate and significantly amplify a detectable signal thereby considerably improving the sensitivity of a non isotopic detection system see e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 6 261 779 the disclosure of which is herein incorporated by reference . Another example is to use the functionalized fluorescent nanocrystals of the present invention to label nucleobases and provide fluorescence labeled nucleobases for nucleic acid strand synthesis or nucleic acid sequence determination see e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 6 221 602 the disclosure of which is herein incorporated by reference . Another example is to use the functionalized fluorescent nanocrystals of the present invention to make fluorescent microspheres e.g. beads by either embedding microspheres with and or to operably bind microspheres to functionalized fluorescent nanocrystals. Another example is to use the functionalized fluorescent nanocrystals of the present invention in fluorescent ink compositions suitable for printing on substrates. In this example the functionalized fluorescent nanocrystal ink composition is applied to a substrate in an identifiable code pattern and is then excited with a suitable for purposes of identification verification security or ornamentation.

As will be apparent to one skilled in the art the functionalized fluorescent nanocrystals according to the present invention may be used in a detection system that may include but is not limited to one or more of an affinity assay e.g. immunoassay such as an ELISA fluorescent staining e.g. immunofluorescent staining on a glass slide fluorescent in situ hybridization and the like flow cytometry cell imaging based detection assays e.g. cell based ELISA or cELISA image cytometry cells grown in standard high density microarrays microarray based detection assays e.g. olignucleotide scanning arrays combinational DNA arrays microchips containing arrays of nucleic acid molecules or protein molecules multi channel microchip electrophoresis and the like microfluidics based detection assays e.g. lab on a chip systems as known in the art fluorescence based biosensors see e.g. Trends in Biotech. 16 135 140 1999 nucleic acid sequencing nucleic acid hybridization nucleic acid synthesis or amplification manufacturing of light emitting diodes identification verification e.g. identification card or bank card fluorescent bead based detection assays molecular sorting e.g. cell sorting by flow cytometry and the like.

This example illustrates embodiments of a process of making the functionalized fluorescent nanocrystals according to the present invention. For this and subsequent examples semiconductor nanocrystals comprising core nanocrystals were produced using a continuous flow process as described in the U.S. Pat. No. 6 179 912. The following parameters were used to produce nanocrystals of cadmium selenide CdSe 10 g TOPO 18.9 ul of MeCd dimethyl cadmium e.g. 2.63 10moles of Cd 198.9 ul of TOPSe 1M solution of Se in TOP e.g. 1.989 10moles of Se 4.5 ml of TOP nucleation temperature Tn of 300 C growth temperature Tg of 280 C. and flow rate of 0.1 ml min. The resulting CdSe nanocrystals displayed fluorescence at a wavelength of 578 nm with an excitation wavelength of 410 nm and a narrow bandwidth at half height of about 29 nm.

The process of making functionalized fluorescent nanocrystals may comprise contacting fluorescent nanocrystals for example CdSe ZnS or CdSe ZnS with a solution comprising a ligand or an imidazole containing compound and then with a solution comprising another ligand such as an alkyl phosphine containing compound. When metal ions like Cdor Znare present in solution or on the fluorescent nanocrystal the ligand or the imidazole containing compound operably binds to the metal cation and the alkyl phosphine containing compound operably binds to the counterpart non metal element e.g. S Se or the like in producing a coat over the fluorescent nanocrystals in forming functionalized fluorescent nanocrystals.

As previously described the fluorescent nanocrystals which are coated by the process may comprise core semiconductor nanocrystals core shell semiconductor nanocrystals doped metal oxide nanocrystals or a combination thereof. With respect to metal cations ligands or other imidazole containing compounds have been reported to operably bind metal ions which may include but are not limited to one or more of Zn Cu Fe Hg Ni Cd Co and the like. With respect to non metal counter part anions alkyl phosphine containing compounds have been reported to operably bind to non metal elements which may include but are not limited to one or more of O S Se Te Po and the like.

For example core fluorescent nanocrystals are prepared and firstly coated by an inorganic layer of ZnS according to methods known in the art to form core shell type nanocrystals and then the core shell type nanocrystals are coated by a second coating solution comprising a ligand or an imidazole containing compound and then with a solution comprising an alkyl phosphine containing compound. The ligand or imidazole containing compound operably binds to the metal cation if present e.g. Cd Znor the like and the alkyl phosphine containing compound operably binds to the counterpart non metal element e.g. S Se or the like in producing a coat over the fluorescent nanocrystals in forming functionalized fluorescent nanocrystals. As a general guideline the core shell nanocrystals coating process may comprise inclusion of components comprising per milligram of fluorescent nanocrystals ligands or an imidazole containing compound in an amount ranging from about 0.25 mmole to about 2.5 mmole alkyl phosphine containing cross linker in an amount ranging from about 0.25 mmole to about 2.5 mmole and a polyamine in an amount ranging from about 0 mmole to about 2.5 mmole. As apparent to one skilled in the art the amount of each individual component may vary depending on the particular ligand or imidazole containing compound used the alkyl phosphine containing compound used the nature e.g. chemical composition of fluorescent nanocrystals to be functionalized the nature of the surface of the fluorescent nanocrystals to be coated the ratio of other components in the coating process and the pH of the buffer system used in the coating process.

In one embodiment of the coating process may be monitored by the emission of the fluorescent nanocrystals during the coating process. Reaction conditions such as time temperature and concentration of reagents may be adjusted according to the emission of excited functionalized fluorescent nanocrystals during the process. A threshold emission intensity may be chosen to indicate a desired state of the coating process. For example the coating process may continue until the emission from the fluorescent nanocrystals during the process is at least the intensity of the threshold value.

For example a 30 mM carnosine imidazole containing compound solution in a 1 M CAPSO buffer 3 Cyclohexylamino 2 hydroxy 1 propanesulfonic acid sodium salt pH 9.6 was prepared. Other suitable buffers known in the art which provide buffering in a range of from about pH 8.0 to about pH 11 may be used in place of the CAPSO buffer e.g. a sodium carbonate buffer TAPS buffer N tris hydroxymethyl methyl 3 aminopropanesulfonic acid and the like . To 10 ml of the carnosine solution was added 0.5 to 3 mg of CdSe nanocrystals core crystals suspended in a minimal volume e.g. from about 60 ul to about 200 ul of organic solvent e.g. chloroform or pyridine . After mixing and incubation for about 1 hr at room temperature the organic phase was discarded Then to the aqueous phase was added 1.2 ml of 60 mM THPP beta Tris hydroxymethyl phosphino propioninc acid alkyl phosphine containing cross linker . The temperature of the reactions may be modified as would be known to those skilled in the art to affect the coating process. After one hour of gentle mixing 100 ul of 1M putrescine polyamine was added and mixed for additional hour. The cycle of the addition of THPP and putrescine was repeated three to four times. The final solution was treated with formaldehyde at 100 mM final concentration for about 1 hour period. The functionalized fluorescent nanocrystals were then purified. Suitable methods of purification include but are not limited to size exclusion chromatography dialysis centrifugation and a combination these methods. For example the solution comprising functionalized fluorescent nanocrystals was dialyzed against a suitable buffer such like PBS phosphate buffered saline using 3000 KD MCO dialysis membranes.

The process for making the functionalized fluorescent nanocrystals was repeated and the relative amounts of each component were varied. The resultant functionalized fluorescent nanocrystals were characterized by stability in aqueous solutions in a pH range of about 6 to about 10 with optimal stability in the range of from about pH 7 to about pH 9 available reactive functionalities on the surface of the functionalized fluorescent nanocrystals in this case carboxyl groups to which molecular probe may be operably bound and fluorescence intensity. There are two measures of stability which may be used the first is decay in fluorescence intensity over time to a threshold of the initial value etc. Most stable crystals decay 1 in 24 hours least stable decay 25 in 24 hours. The second measure of stability is the physical stability were there is no change in solubility aggregation cloudiness or phase separation stability toward repeated centrifugation and filtration and toward dialysis and electrophoresis. From these formulation studies a preferred ratio of components that showed optimal properties of fluorescence and stability in an aqueous environment and at a wide pH range comprises 1 to 2 mg of core shell nanocrystals e.g. CdSe ZnS 0.35 mmole carnosine 0.15 mmole THPP 0.15 mmole putrescine and 1 mmole formaldehyde.

These functionalized fluorescent nanocrystals showed unexpected enhancement of fluorescence intensity comprising at least 50 fold to as much as about 1100 fold or more see e.g. and inset of when compared to the fluorescence intensity of functionalized fluorescent nanocrystals known in the art e.g. CdX YZ fluorescent nanocrystals in organic solvent or CdX YZ fluorescent nanocrystals capped with mercapto based compound see e.g. . The characteristic spectral emission of the coated fluorescent nanocrystal is enhanced by the coating material. The comparison of fluorescence intensity was made by comparison to an equivalent amount of fluorescent nanocrystals made using core shell nanocrystals from the same preparation excitation with the same excitation light source e.g. 410 nm and detection using the same detection system.

In this example provided is another embodiment of process of making functionalized fluorescent nanocrystals by coating fluorescent nanocrystals with a coating comprising histidine as a ligand or imidazole containing compound. As a general guideline the core shell nanocrystals coating process may comprise inclusion of components comprising per milligram of fluorescent nanocrystals a ligand or imidazole containing compound in an amount ranging from about 0.25 mmole to about 2.5 mmole alkyl phosphine containing cross linker in an amount ranging from about 0.25 mmole to about 2.5 mmole and a polyamine in an amount ranging from about 0 mmole to about 2.5 mmole. As apparent to one skilled in the art the amount of each individual component may vary depending on the particular ligand or imidazole containing compound used the alkyl phosphine containing compound used the nature e.g. chemical composition of fluorescent nanocrystals to be functionalized the nature of the surface of the fluorescent nanocrystals to be coated the ratio of other components in the coating process and the pH of the buffer system used in the coating process.

For example prepared was a 30 mM histidine imidazole containing compound solution in a 1 M CAPSO buffer 3 Cyclohexylamino 2 hydroxy 1 propanesulfonic acid sodium salt pH 9.6 . Other suitable buffers known in the art may be used. To 10 ml of the histidine solution was added 0.5 to 3 mg of CdSe nanocrystals core crystals suspended in a minimal volume e.g. from about 60 ul to about 200 ul of organic solvent e.g. chloroform or pyridine . After mixing and incubation for about 1 hr at room temperature the organic phase was discarded. Then to the mixture was added 1.2 ml of 60 mM THPP beta Tris hydroxymethyl phosphino propioninc acid alkyl phosphine containing cross linker . After one hour of gentle mixing 100 ul of 1M putrescine polyamine was added and mixed for additional hour. The cycle of the addition of THPP and putrescine was repeated three to four times. The final solution was treated with formaldehyde at 100 mM final concentration for about 1 hour period. The functionalized fluorescent nanocrystals were then purified as previously described.

This process for making the functionalized fluorescent nanocrystals was repeated whereby the relative amounts of each component were varied. The resultant functionalized fluorescent nanocrystals were characterized by stability in aqueous solutions of the general pH range of about 6 to about 10 with optimal stability in the range of from about pH 7 to about pH 9 availability of reactive functionalities on the surface of the functionalized fluorescent nanocrystals in this case carboxyl groups to which molecular probe may be operably bound and fluorescence intensity. From these formulation studies a preferred ratio of components that showed optimal properties of fluorescence and stability in an aqueous environment and at a wide pH range comprises 1 to 2 mg of core shell nanocrystals e.g. CdSe ZnS 0.35 mmole histidine 0.15 mmole THPP 0.15 mmole putrescine and 1 mmole formaldehyde.

These functionalized fluorescent nanocrystals showed unexpected enhancement of fluorescence intensity about 50 fold to as much as about 1100 fold or more when compared to fluorescence intensity of functionalized fluorescent nanocrystals known in the art e.g. CdX YZ fluorescent nanocrystals in organic solvent or CdX YZ fluorescent nanocrystals capped with mercapto based compound . The comparison of fluorescence intensity was made as previously described.

