---

title: Document aesthetics evaluation
abstract: In one implementation, a document aesthetics evaluation system accesses a plurality of content layout descriptors associated with a document template and a plurality of aesthetics measures. Each aesthetics measure from the plurality of aesthetics measures being assigned by a designer to a content layout descriptor from the plurality of content layout descriptors. The document aesthetics evaluation system also defines a content layout model for the document template based on the plurality of content layout descriptors and the plurality of aesthetics measures.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08977956&OS=08977956&RS=08977956
owner: Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P.
number: 08977956
owner_city: Houston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120113
---
Aesthetics evaluation of the content layout of a document is typically performed by a person such as a designer. For example after content has been arranged within a document a designer reviews the document to determine whether the content layout of the document or the document itself is aesthetically pleasing.

In addition to designer based aesthetics evaluation of content layout automated e.g. computer based rather than human based content layout evaluation systems have been proposed. Such automated content layout evaluation systems typically attempt to identify the extent to which the content layout of a document conforms to design principles e.g. alignment regularity separation balance uniformity proportionality and flow or to measure deviation of the content layout of a document from an ideal document template.

Implementations discussed herein define a content layout model for a document template based on designer provided aesthetics measures e.g. aesthetics ranking or scoring for sample documents that conform to the document template and have various content layout parameters. In other words implementations discussed herein generate a content layout model based on designer input relative to multiple documents each with a different content layout that conform to a document template. In some implementations such content layout models can have multiple dimensions e.g. a dimension for each content layout parameter of a document template .

Additionally implementations discussed herein apply a document that conforms to a document template or a content layout descriptor for the document to the content layout model for that document template to determine an aesthetics measure of the document. In other words the content layout of the document is compared to a content layout model to determine whether that document is aesthetically pleasing. That is the content layout model can be used to predict an aesthetics measure that would be assigned to the document by the designer based on content layouts of documents and the designer provided aesthetics measures for those documents. Because documents are applied to a content layout model using automated tools e.g. computing systems hosting a document aesthetics evaluation system rather than human reviewers or designers large groups of documents can be evaluated economically in terms of cost and time.

The content layout model for a document template relates various content layout parameters of the document template or of documents conforming to the document template to the designer provided aesthetics measures. For example rather than define or describe an ideal document template the content layout model describes or models the relationship between content layout parameters and designer provided aesthetics measures. Such relationships can be expressed in a content layout model as for example one or more of a statistical or probabilistic distribution a variance a covariance or a correlation. Moreover a content layout model can include multiple dimensions e.g. a dimension corresponding to each content layout parameter of a document template in which such relationships are defined.

Because such content layout models are derived from or based on designer provided aesthetics measures for multiple documents or content layouts these content layout models can describe phenomena such as multiple content layouts that are equally or nearly equally aesthetically pleasing. Furthermore because the content layout model is specific to a particular document template and generated from designer provided aesthetics measures for that particular document template a content layout model can accommodate or account for aesthetics properties or anomalies in documents conforming to a particular document template that are overlooked or ignored by measures of conformance to generic design principles. For example a content layout model can accurately reflect that deviations from design principles that are typically not aesthetically pleasing are indeed aesthetically pleasing in documents conforming to a particular document template. As a result implementations discussed herein can provide enhanced accuracy for determinations or predictions of whether a document is aesthetically pleasing to a designer or other individual.

Content regions are portions or sections of a document at which content is placed in the document. For example content such as text images figures graphics word art video or other content can be placed within content regions.

In some implementations a content region is designated for or assigned a particular class or type of content to identify the type of content that will be placed at or in that content region. For example one content region of a document can be designated for text content and another content region of the document can be designated for image content. As a specific example content regions and of document are for graphical content e.g. images figures or other graphics and content regions and are for text content. In some implementations a content region can be designated for a group of content types. For example a content region can be designated for media content types e.g. video images or graphics .

Additionally content regions can have properties or attributes such as size properties shape properties and orientation properties. As illustrated in content regions and are rectangles and each have a width and height. In other implementations content regions can have other shapes such as ellipses polygons or other shapes. Similarly content regions can have size properties other than a height and a width. For example a content region with an ellipse shape can have one or more radii. In some implementations content regions can be rotated flipped or mirrored for example and such orientation operations can be described at orientation properties for the content regions.

Content layout parameters describe the arrangement of content regions of a document. For example content layout parameters can describe an absolute or relative arrangement of the content regions of a document. In some implementations content layout parameters can be referred to as features as aesthetics parameters as aesthetics features or using other similar terminology. In the example illustrated in content layout parameters X X and X describe the spacing in the X direction of content regions and content layout parameters Y Y Y Y and Y describe the spacing in the Y direction of content regions. More specifically X describes the space or distance between the left edge of document and content regions and X describes the space between content regions and content regions and and content regions and and X describes the space between content regions and and the right edge of document . Similarly Y describes the space between the top edge of document and content regions and Y describes the space between content regions and Y describes the space between content regions and Y describes the space between content regions and and Y describes the space between content regions and and the bottom edge of document .

The content layout parameters illustrated in are relative to a Cartesian coordinate system and are relative to the content regions of document . In other implementations content layout parameters can be relative to other coordinate systems and or can be absolute with respect to an origin or other point of document .

In addition to describing the arrangement of the content regions of a document the properties or attributes of content regions of a document can also be referred to as content layout parameters. Said differently values that describe the shape size and or other properties or attributes of content regions are content layout parameters. For example the width and height of each of content regions and are content layout parameters of document .

As discussed above document conforms to a document template that specifies the existence of content regions and and content layout parameters X X X Y Y Y Y and Y. In other words the document template specifies the general arrangement of content layout of document and other documents conforming to the document template but does not specify specific properties or values of each such content region or content layout parameter.

Moreover one or more of content regions and e.g. a size property or shape property of content regions and and content layout parameters X X X Y Y Y Y and Y of document can be adjusted e.g. changed modified or varied and document is still said to conform to the document template. That is a document conforms to a document template if the content regions and content layout parameters specified in the document template exist in or at the document. In some implementations a document template can specify a first set of content layout parameters including content layout parameters related to content regions that should be included or exist in documents that conform to that document template and can also specify a second set e.g. a subset of the first set of content layout parameters that must be included or exist in documents that conform to that document template.

The content layout of document can be described by a content layout descriptor. A content layout descriptor includes a group of content layout parameters that define the arrangement of content within a document. Said differently a content layout descriptor describes a document relative to the content layout of that document. Accordingly the content layout descriptor can be referred to as the content layout descriptor for of or associated with the document. Moreover data or information discussed herein as associated with a content layout descriptor can also be said to be associated with the document associated with the content layout descriptor. For example an aesthetics measure related to a content layout descriptor can also be said to be related to the document associated with the content layout descriptor. Similarly data or information discussed herein as associated with a document can also be said to be associated with the content layout descriptor for the document. Moreover in other implementations content layout descriptors can be referred to using other terms such as feature vectors or aesthetics parameters vectors. 

Content layout descriptors can be represented in a variety of forms. For example a content layout descriptor can be represented as a row in a database table as a portion of a flat text file or as an element in an Extensible Markup Language XML or other markup document. As another example illustrate graph representations of the content layout of the document illustrated in according to an implementation. The nodes of graphs and represent edges and content regions of document and the edges of and represent space between edges and content regions of document . Moreover the nodes of graphs and that represent content regions of document can include or store content layout parameters related to properties e.g. size properties such as height and width of those content regions.

Graph illustrates a vertical Y direction component of the content layout descriptor for document . More specifically the root node labeled TOP represents the top edge of document which is separated from each of content regions and represented by the nodes labeled and respectively by a space of Y e.g. in pixels points inches centimeters or some other measure . Content region is separated from content region by Y. Content region is separated from content region represented by the node labeled by Y and content region is separated from content region represented by the node labeled by Y. Content regions and are each separated from the bottom edge of document represented by the node labeled BTM by Y.

Similarly graph illustrates a horizontal X direction component of the content layout descriptor for document . More specifically the root node labeled LFT represents the left edge of document which is separated from content regions and represented by the nodes labeled and respectively by a space of X e.g. in pixels points inches centimeters or some other measure . Content region is separated from content region by X. Content region is also separated from each of content regions and represented by the nodes labeled and respectively by X. Content regions and are each separated from the right edge of document represented by the node labeled RGT by X.

As discussed above content regions and content layout parameters specified in a document template can be adjusted for documents conforming to the document template. Accordingly not all documents conforming to the document template have the same content layout. For example larger or smaller images or more or less text for particular content regions of a document can results in larger or smaller content regions and or altered content layout parameters to allow the document to accommodate that content i.e. the images and text . Because such adjustments alter the content layout and therefore the appearance of a document such adjustments can alter an aesthetics measure of the document e.g. whether or to what degree the document is aesthetically pleasing .

A representation of a document conforming to a document template is output at block . For example a document aesthetics evaluation system implementing process can output a representation of the document at a graphical user interface GUI . As a specific example a representation of the document similar to illustrations shown in D and E e.g. with rectangular blocks or other shapes to represent content regions . In some implementations a textual representation of the document can be output at block .

The document aesthetics evaluation system implementing process then provides an opportunity for a user such as a designer to alter one or more content layout parameters of the document and accesses altered content layout parameters at block . For example if the representation of the document is output at a GUI a designer can manipulate portions of the representation that represent content regions using a mouse or other input device to alter the content layout parameters or content layout of the document. More specifically for example the user can resize move rotate or otherwise manipulate those portions of the representation using a mouse to alter the content layout of the documents. As the user manipulates the content layout the document aesthetics evaluation system implementing process accesses or calculates altered content layout parameters for the document. In other words the user is able to alter the content layout parameters of the document by interacting with the representation of the document output at block .

In other implementations the user can provide altered content layout parameters for the document via text based user interface such as a command line interface CLI or at text input boxes or elements of a GUI. That is the user can input values for content layout parameters to the document aesthetics evaluation system implementing process to alter content layout parameters of the document and the document aesthetics evaluation system implementing process can access those altered content layout parameters.

If the user altered content layout parameters of the document at block process returns to block and a new representation of the document including the altered content layout parameters is output. In other words the representation of the document is refreshed. If the user did not alter any content layout parameters process proceeds to block at which an aesthetics measure is received from the user.

For example the user can select from a group of aesthetics measures such as values one through five one being best and five being worst at a GUI. As an alternative for example the user can input an aesthetics measure using a text based interface e.g. CLI or text input element of a GUI. As discussed above aesthetics measures can be qualitative e.g. a range of descriptions including bad tolerable good very good and excellent or values such as one through five representing those qualitative measures and or quantitative e.g. any number between zero and ten .

At block the document aesthetics evaluation system implementing process generates a content layout descriptor for the document. As discussed above a content layout descriptor includes a group of content layout parameters that define the content layout of the document. For example the document aesthetics evaluation system implementing process can access the content layout parameters for the document e.g. spacing between content regions and or edges of the document and properties or attributes of content regions and store those content layout parameters in a data structure i.e. the content layout descriptor or group of data structures such as the graphs illustrated in . In other implementations the content layout parameters can be stored as one or more rows in a database in a table within a memory or within a file such as an element or object within an XML file. Furthermore the aesthetics measure received at block is associated with the content layout descriptor at block .

The aesthetics measure can be associated with the content layout descriptor using a variety of methodologies. For example the aesthetics measure can be stored at a field of a data structure at which the content layout descriptor is stored. As another example a portion of a database or table e.g. a row or group of rows at which the content layout descriptor is stored can include a reference or foreign key to another database or table at which the aesthetics measure for the content layout descriptor is stored.

If another or new document conforming to the document template is to be assigned an aesthetics measure at block process returns to block at which a representation of the new or next document is output. Thus the user is able to provide aesthetics measures for a variety of content layouts in documents conforming to a document template. If no additional document are to be assigned an aesthetics measure at block process completes.

Process illustrated in is an example implementation. Other implementations can include more fewer or rearranged blocks. For example in some implementations a content layout descriptor can be generated for a document before an aesthetics measure is received for the document. As another example an identifier of a document template can be associated with a content layout descriptor. This can be useful for example to allow a document aesthetics evaluation system to later access content layout descriptors and aesthetics measures that are related to a particular document template.

A content layout model for the documents related to the content layout descriptors is then defined or generated at block . The content layout model is generated from the content layout descriptors accessed at block and the aesthetics measures accessed at block . For example the content layout parameters included in each content layout descriptor and related aesthetics measures can be analyzed at a document aesthetics evaluation system to identify relationships between content layout parameters and aesthetics measures. Such relationships can then be expressed in various dimensions of a multi dimensions content layout model. The content layout model can then be used to predict or hypothesize what aesthetics measure the designer would assign a document that conforms to the document template without input from the designer or another user.

As a more specific example if the content layout descriptors are related to documents that conform to a particular document template the content layout model describes or models the relationship between content layout parameters of document described by the content layout descriptors and associated designer provided aesthetics measures. The content layout model can be defined for example by calculating the mean or median of each dimension e.g. content layout parameter of the content layout descriptors and storing those means or medians in a data structure e.g. within a memory or a file representing the content layout model.

In some implementations the content layout parameters of each content layout descriptor can be weighted according to the aesthetics measures before calculating the mean or median of each dimension. For example a relatively large multiplier can be applied to the content layout parameters of content layout descriptors associated with good or favorable aesthetics measures e.g. content layout descriptors that represent documents a designer found aesthetically pleasing and a relatively small multiplier can be applied to the content layout parameters of content layout descriptors associated with poor or unfavorable aesthetics measures. Such weighting can skew the content layout model e.g. skew the mean or median which can also be referred to as a weighted mean or median for each dimension of the content layout model for each dimension towards the content layout parameters or towards the values of the content layout parameters that were included in content layout descriptors with favorable aesthetics measures.

The content layout model defined at block can then be stored for example at a data structure within a memory at a database at an XML document at a file or at some other data store. If another content layout model should be defined e.g. for another document template at block process returns to block . If no additional content layout models should be defined at block process completes.

Similar to process illustrated in is an example implementation. Other implementations can include more fewer or rearranged blocks. For example aesthetics measures can be accessed before content layout descriptors or process can not include block such that only one content layout model is generated. As another example similar to content layout descriptors discussed above in relation to the content layout model defined at block can be stored e.g. at a data store such as a database or at a memory for later use by a document aesthetics evaluation system. Moreover a content layout model can include an identifier of a document template or group of content layout parameters to which the content layout model applies.

Referring again to block an as a specific example of defining a content layout model based on content layout descriptors and associated designer provided aesthetics measures a cost function can be minimized using the content layout descriptors and the associated designer provided aesthetics measures to define a mean and covariance between the content layout parameters of the content layout descriptors for documents conforming to a document template. More specifically the cost function argmin 2 log where is a mean vector is a covariance matrix and is a vector of content layout parameters for a particular i.e. the i document and ris an aesthetics measure for that document can be used to generate a content layout model that describes relationships among content layout parameters and aesthetics measures. In other words a group of documents that conform to a document template are each characterized by a vector e.g. a feature vector which includes content layout parameters for that document. is therefore the content layout descriptor of the idocument i.e. a vector with values that correspond to the content layout parameters of the idocument and ris the designer provided aesthetics measure associated with that document. In this example each rhas a value of 1 2 3 4 or 5 where 1 indicates the best aesthetics measure of the content layout of a document and 5 indicates the worst aesthetics measure of the content layout of a document. In other words here the aesthetics measure associated with each content layout descriptor is a non exclusive rank. and collectively define a content layout model which in this example is a Gaussian distribution characterized by mean and covariance .

A mean vector and covariance matrix for each group of content layout descriptors with a common i.e. the same aesthetics measure can be determined as follows 

Mean and covariant matrix can then be determined as follows and . In some implementations a weight for each distinct aesthetics measure value here 1 2 3 4 and 5 can be applied to mean and covariant matrix to compensate for correct for or remove a bias due to a large number of content layout descriptors with poor here high aesthetics measures. In such implementations mean and covariant matrix can then be determined as follows and .

The value of the weights w w w w and ware determined using the cost function from above. More specifically the weights can be determined using a linear equation of the form S w R where 

The cost function is then minimized as discussed below. An initial or candidate mean is selected. For example the unweighted mean

After the initial mean is selected the following steps are repeated with the mean calculated in one iteration of the following steps being used in the subsequent iteration of the following steps. The weights are calculated using w SS SR. Those weights are then used to determine for w N and for w N w . These steps i.e. solving for w and are repeated until and converge. That is these steps are repeated until and determined during the current iteration of the steps is not significantly different from and determined during the previous iteration of the steps.

The difference that is significant can vary according to different implementations and precision requirements. For example the steps above can be repeated until and determined during the current iteration of the steps differ from and determined during the previous iteration of the steps by no more than 1 . In another implementation the steps above can be repeated until and determined during the current iteration of the steps differ from and determined during the previous iteration of the steps by 1 5 .

After mean and covariant matrix have converged mean and covariant matrix are the content layout model for the document template to which the documents represented by the content layout descriptors . More specifically mean and covariant matrix define a Gaussian distribution with dimensions corresponding to the content layout parameters included in documents that conform to that document template where the mean corresponds with content layout descriptors with better here lower aesthetics measures. Content layout descriptors of other documents conforming to that document template can then be compared with this Gaussian distribution to determine whether those documents are likely to be aesthetically pleasing to a designer such as the designer who provided the aesthetics measures for the content layout descriptors or to predict what aesthetics measure a designer would assign to those documents.

In other words the content layout model for the document template can be used to determine aesthetics measures for documents that have not been assigned an aesthetics measure by a designer. is a flowchart of a process to determine an aesthetics measure for a document according to an implementation. A content layout model for a document is accessed at block . For example a content layout model associated with a document template to which the document conforms can be accessed at a data store such as a database.

A content layout descriptor for the document is then accessed at block . In some implementations the content layout descriptor for the document can be provided as an input to a document aesthetics evaluation system implementing process . In other implementations a document aesthetics evaluation system implementing process can access the content layout descriptor for the document at a data store. In yet other implementations a document aesthetics evaluation system implementing process can receive the document as input and can identify or access content layout parameters of the document e.g. based on metadata or markup information within the document and or image processing techniques such as edge detection and generate a content layout descriptor for the document.

An aesthetics measure for the document is determined at block by comparing the content layout descriptor accessed at block with the content layout model accessed at block . In other words the content layout descriptor accessed at block is applied to the content layout model accessed at block to determine an aesthetics measure for the document. As discussed above a content layout model can include multiple dimensions such as a dimension for each content layout parameter of a document template. Accordingly in many implementations the content layout descriptor accessed at block is similarly expressed in multiple dimensions e.g. a dimension for each content layout parameter of a the content layout parameter and the content layout descriptor can be efficiently applied to the content layout model using matrix operations at a document aesthetics evaluation system hosted at a computing system.

For example as discussed above the content layout model can be a statistical or probabilistic distribution with dimensions corresponding to the content layout parameters for a document template. The content layout parameters of a content layout descriptor for a document conforming to the document template can be applied to the distribution to determine whether that content layout descriptor is close to the mean of the distribution and therefore likely to be aesthetically pleasing. The aesthetics measure of that content layout descriptor or the document represented by that content layout descriptor can be determined based on its proximity to the mean or other portion of the distribution and other features e.g. a variance a covariance or a standard deviation of the distribution.

In some implementations the type of aesthetics measure determined at block is different than the type of aesthetics measure used to generate a content layout model. For example as discussed above the aesthetics measure used to generate a content layout model can be a rank and the aesthetics measure determined at block is binary aesthetically pleasing or not aesthetically pleasing. Alternatively for example the aesthetics measure determined at block can be a value within a range such as one to ten or binary aesthetically pleasing or not aesthetically pleasing with an associated confidence score.

The aesthetics measure of the document is then output at block . For example the aesthetics measure can be output to a user interface such as a GUI to inform a user of a document aesthetics evaluation system implementing process whether a document is aesthetically pleasing. In some implementations process can output the aesthetics measure to a file.

If however the aesthetics measure is below the threshold process proceeds to block at which one or more content layout parameters that can be altered to improve the aesthetics measure. In other words For example referring to the content layout model based on a Gaussian distribution discussed above one or more content layout parameters of the document that significantly deviate from the mean of the distribution can be identified. Information related to the identified one or more content layout parameters is then output at block to prompt a user to alter the document to change the one or more content layout parameters.

For example a portion of the document related to such a content layout parameter can be highlighted or otherwise noted at a representation of the document output at a GUI of a document aesthetics evaluation system implementing process . As another example a text description of such a content layout parameter and or its current value can be output at block .

User input relative to the one or more content layout parameters is received at block . For example user input indicating that a user has moved e.g. using a mouse and a GUI one or more content regions related to the one or more content layout parameters can be received at block . In other implementations user input including a new value for the one or more content layout parameters is received at block . Although not illustrated in in some implementations the user input can indicate that the user does not desire to change the document and process can complete.

If the user input to alter the one or more content layout parameters is received at block a document aesthetics evaluation system implementing process can modify the document at based on the altered one or more content layout parameters. In other words the document aesthetics evaluation system implementing process can modify the document at based on the user input to improve the aesthetics measure of the document. Process then returns to block to determine a new aesthetics measure for the document after the document is modified.

Document aesthetics evaluation system includes selection module analysis module modeling module model library and input output module . Selection module selects a content layout model for a document. For example document aesthetics evaluation system can receive documents or content layout descriptors representing content layout of documents and identifiers of document templates to which those documents conform. Selection module can then select a content layout model associated with that document template.

As a specific example selection module can select a content layout model at model library . Content model library includes a variety of content layout models and can be a data store such as a database or a file or group of files. In some implementations model library is included within document aesthetics evaluation system . In other implementations model library is separate from document aesthetics evaluation system .

Analysis module compares a document or a content layout descriptor representing content layout of the document with a content layout model selected at selection module for that document to generate or determine an aesthetics measure for that document. As a specific example the content layout model can be a statistical or probabilistic distribution with dimensions corresponding to the content layout parameters of the document template to which the document conforms and analysis module determines the proximity of a content layout descriptor for the document to the mean of that distribution. The aesthetics measure is then determined based on that proximity. For example if the content layout descriptor is within a first distance from the mean a best aesthetics measure is generated by analysis module if the content layout descriptor is within a second distance from the mean a good aesthetics measure is generated by analysis module and if the content layout descriptor is within a third distance from the mean a bad or poor aesthetics measure is generated by analysis module .

Input output module receives and processes user input and generates output for document aesthetics evaluation system . For example input output module can receive user input relative to changes to a document or representation of a document output by input output module a document or content layout descriptor for a document and or other input. Additionally input output module can output representations of documents aesthetics measures or other information. As a specific example input output module can implement process discussed above in relation to to generate content layout descriptors and associate aesthetics measures with those content layout descriptors.

In some implementations input output module defines a web based e.g. using the Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP interface for document aesthetics evaluation system . Thus document aesthetics evaluation system can be accessed via an Internet or web browser application at a computing system. In other implementations input output module communicates with drivers or an input output framework or application programming interface API of an operating system at a computing system hosting document aesthetics evaluation system and the operating system.

Modeling module defines a content layout model based on a plurality of content layout descriptors and a plurality of aesthetics measures. For example in some implementations modeling module can implement process discussed above in relation to . As another specific example referring to the content layout model based on a Gaussian distribution discussed above modeling module can define a statistical or probabilistic distribution based on a plurality of content layout descriptors and a plurality of aesthetics measures that is used at document aesthetics evaluation system as a content layout model.

Communications interface is a module via which processor can communicate with other processors or computing systems via communications link. For example communications interface can include a network interface card and a communications protocol stack hosted at processor e.g. instructions or code stored at memory and executed or interpreted at processor to implement a network protocol . As specific examples communications interface can be a wired interface a wireless interface an Ethernet interface a Fiber Channel interface an InfiniBand interface and IEEE 802.11 interface or some other communications interface via which processor can exchange signals or symbols representing data to communicate with other processors or computing systems. For example computing system can host a document aesthetics evaluation system that includes an input output module implanting a web based interface that communicates with client e.g. web browsers via communications interface .

Memory is a processor readable medium that stores instructions codes data or other information. As used herein a processor readable medium is any medium that stores instructions codes data or other information non transitorily and is directly or indirectly accessible to a processor. Said differently a processor readable medium is a non transitory medium at which a processor can access instructions codes data or other information. For example memory can be a volatile random access memory RAM a persistent data store such as a hard disk drive or a solid state drive a compact disc CD a digital video disc DVD a Secure Digital SD card a MultiMediaCard MMC card a CompactFlash CF card or a combination thereof or other memories. In some implementations memory can be integrated with processor separate from processor or external to computing system .

Memory includes modules e.g. instructions or codes that when executed at processor implement operating system selection module and analysis module . In other words operating system selection module and analysis module are each modules that when executed at processor cause processor to perform operations that implement respectively an operating system and a document aesthetics evaluation system including a selection module and an analysis module. Said differently operating system selection module and analysis module are hosted at computing system or at processor . In some implementations other modules such as modules included within document aesthetics evaluation system illustrated at are also hosted at computing system .

In some implementations computing system can be a virtualized computing system. For example computing system can be hosted as a virtual machine at a computing server. Moreover in some implementations computing system can be a virtualized computing appliance and operating system is a minimal or just enough operating system to support e.g. provide services such as a communications protocol stack and access to components of computing system such as communications interface a document aesthetics evaluation system including selection module and analysis module .

Selection module and analysis module can be accessed or installed at computing system from a variety of memories or processor readable media. For example computing system can access a remote processor readable medium via communications interface and selection module and analysis module at that processor readable medium. As a specific example computing system can be a thin client that accesses operating system selection module and analysis module during a boot sequence.

As another example computing system can include not illustrated in a processor readable medium access device e.g. CD DVD SD MMC or a CF drive or reader and selection module and analysis module at a processor readable medium via that processor readable medium access device. As a more specific example the processor readable medium access device can be a DVD drive at which a DVD including an installation package for selection module and analysis module is accessible. The installation package can be executed or interpreted at processor to install selection module and analysis module at computing system e.g. at memory . Computing system can then host or execute a document aesthetics evaluation system including selection module and analysis module .

In some implementations a document aesthetics evaluation system including selection module and analysis module and or other components or modules of the document aesthetics evaluation system can be accessed at or installed from multiple sources locations or resources. For example some components or modules of the document aesthetics evaluation system can be installed via a communications link and other components or modules of the document aesthetics evaluation system can be installed from a DVD.

While certain implementations have been shown and described above various changes in form and details may be made. For example some features that have been described in relation to one implementation and or process can be related to other implementations. In other words processes features components and or properties described in relation to one implementation can be useful in other implementations. As another example functionalities discussed above in relation to specific modules or elements can be included at different modules engines or elements in other implementations. Furthermore it should be understood that the systems apparatus and methods described herein can include various combinations and or sub combinations of the components and or features of the different implementations described. Thus features described with reference to one or more implementations can be combined with other implementations described herein.

As used herein the term module refers to a combination of hardware e.g. a processor such as an integrated circuit or other circuitry and software e.g. machine or processor executable instructions commands or code such as firmware programming or object code . A combination of hardware and software includes hardware only i.e. a hardware element with no software elements software hosted at hardware e.g. software that is stored at a memory and executed or interpreted at a processor or at hardware and software hosted at hardware. Additionally as used herein the singular forms a an and the include plural referents unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Thus for example the term module is intended to mean one or more modules or a combination of modules.

Moreover the term provide as used herein includes push mechanism e.g. sending data independent of a request for that data pull mechanisms e.g. delivering data in response to a request for that data and store mechanisms e.g. storing data at an intermediary at which the data can be accessed . Furthermore as used herein the term based on means based at least in part on. Thus a feature that is described as based on some cause can be based only on the cause or based on that cause and on one or more other causes.

