---

title: Credit card account shadowing
abstract: Account shadowing is provided such that when a charge is made on a first credit card (e.g., a high interest rate credit card) of a user, a transfer of funds is made from a second credit card (e.g., a low interest rate credit card) of the user to pay the charge made to the first credit card. This may transfer the balance from a user's high interest rate credit card to a user's low interest rate credit card. In this manner, the user may receive the reward incentives of a high interest rate credit card while using a low interest rate credit card to satisfy balances due.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08538872&OS=08538872&RS=08538872
owner: United Services Automobile Association (USAA)
number: 08538872
owner_city: San Antonio
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120327
---
The present application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 252 097 filed on Oct. 15 2008 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 145 565 which is a divisional of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 143 224 filed Jun. 20 2008 the entirety of which is hereby incorporated by reference herein. Further this application is related by subject matter to that disclosed in the following commonly assigned application the entirety of which is hereby incorporated by reference herein U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 252 106 filed on Oct. 15 2008.

A credit card is a system of payment in which money is not removed from the credit card user s account after every transaction. A credit card issuer which may be a bank or an entity associated with a bank lends money to the user to be paid to a vendor. An interest rate is associated with the money lent to the user. Credit card issuers usually waive interest charges if the balance is paid in full each month but typically will charge full interest on the entire outstanding balance from the date of each purchase if the total balance is not paid.

Because of intense competition in the credit card industry credit card issuers often offer incentives such as frequent flyer points gift certificates or cash back to try to attract users to their program. Credit cards that offer attractive incentives often have high interest rates and credit cards with low interest rates often lack attractive incentives.

Account shadowing is provided such that when a charge is made on a first credit card e.g. a high interest rate credit card of a user a transfer of funds is made from a second credit card e.g. a low interest rate credit card of the user to pay the charge made to the first credit card. This may transfer the balance from a user s high interest rate credit card to a user s low interest rate credit card. In this manner the user may receive the reward incentives of a high interest rate credit card while using a low interest rate credit card to satisfy balances due.

In an implementation a payment may be made to the first credit card issuer using an account or other funding source associated with the user such as a checking account or equity line of credit instead of a second credit card. Alternatively a portion of the payment may be made to the first credit card issuer using an account or other funding source and another portion of the payment may be made using the second credit card.

In an implementation a transfer may be performed with respect to a balance on the first credit card with payments made periodically or may be performed with respect to a particular balance. Alternatively or additionally the user may select certain types of transactions for the balance transfer such as purchases made from a particular vendor or purchases of a certain product or corresponding to a particular merchant category code MCC .

This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the detailed description. This summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

A balance transfer describes any shifting or moving of either an asset or debt from one account to another. With respect to credit cards a balance transfer is the act of transferring debt from one credit card to another. A balance transfer may be initiated when one credit card has better terms and rates than another credit card having an existing balance.

The institution system may shadow a credit card of a user such as a high interest rate credit card with a second credit card of the user such as a low interest rate credit card and transfer the balance to the second credit card as described further herein. A credit card may also be shadowed by other accounts such as a checking account an equity line of credit etc. giving the user the ability to take advantage of incentives on high interest rate credit cards without accruing the interest associated with them. As described herein the user may be notified and authorize a balance transfer or the user may have the balance transfer automatically performed without authorization.

The user and an associated user computing device are shown along with a vendor and credit card issuer and credit card issuer . Credit card issuer may issue a credit card and credit card issuer may issue a credit card . A credit card issuer may process transactions associated with a credit card and or may be an entity that provides services pertaining to aspects and behaviors of credit cards. It is contemplated that the institution system may handle such aspects and or behaviors of credit cards. Although only two credit card issuers are shown each with a respective credit card it is contemplated that any number of credit card issuers and credit cards may be implemented. In an implementation the institution system may issue a credit card referred to as an institution credit card .

The user may make a purchase from the vendor using one of the credit cards. As described further herein the institution system may monitor credit cards and purchases made on credit cards and may receive and analyze transaction data associated with purchases made on credit cards. The institution system may also obtain balances available credit limits and interest rates of credit cards and initiate balance transfers and payments of balances in full or portions thereof.

The institution system may use account aggregation via an aggregator and or an aggregation service e.g. Yodlee Intuit etc. to compile information from the various credit card accounts bank accounts investment accounts and other user vendor or credit card issuer accounts.

The institution system may access one or more internal data sources and or one or more external data sources when obtaining information. The internal and external data sources and may be accessed via a data source access engine . Screen scraping may be used in which the user provides the requisite account access information for the institution system to gather and compile the information. Thus data pertaining to the user the user s credit cards and or user account s such as account may be retrieved from the internal data source s and or the external data source s . Other information may be provided to the institution system from the user and or the vendor . The retrieved data may be stored centrally perhaps in storage . As described further herein a credit card engine has access to data files and documents pertaining to the user as well as any other data files and documents that are currently stored by the institution system as well as external data files and documents and that may be useful in transferring balances.

The institution system may send a notice to the user e.g. via email instant messaging telephone facsimile mail etc. asking if the user would like a balance transferred from one credit card to another and or notifying the user that a balance transfer has been initiated and or has been performed. The notice may be sent to a computing device associated with the user such as the user computing device .

The institution system may include a user interface module the credit card engine and the data source access engine . The user interface module may generate and format one or more pages of content as a unified graphical presentation that may be provided to the user computing device as an output from the credit card engine . In an implementation the page s of content may be provided to the user computing device via a secure website associated with the institution system .

In an implementation instead of hosting the website the institution system may comprise a conventional application server hosting a proprietary online service accessible only by a private network. In any event the institution system may have appropriate security mechanisms in place to prevent unauthorized third parties from intercepting the user s information.

The user may be an individual who owns a credit card account or other account that may be provided by or held by the institution associated with the institution system . The user may provide data and or instructions to the institution system via the user computing device . The user computing device may be a handheld computing device such as a personal digital assistant PDA or a mobile phone for example or any type of personal computer PC . The user computing device and the institution system may be connected over a network. The user may communicate with the institution system by way of a communications network such as an intra net the Internet a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a wireless fidelity WiFi network a public switched telephone network PSTN a cellular network a voice over Internet protocol VoIP network and the like. An example user computing device is described with respect to . The user may also communicate with the institution system by phone email instant messaging facsimile mail and the like.

The vendor may be any entity that may sell a product or a service to the user . The user as well as the institution system and the credit card issuers and may be in communication with the vendor via a communications network. The vendor may send data associated with the purchase such as amount vendor name merchant category code MCC and credit card number for example to a credit card issuer for verification and processing. An MCC is a number assigned to a business and is used to classify the business by the type of goods or services it provides. The institution system may have the ability to interact with information that may be maintained and or provided by the vendor e.g. information pertaining to purchases made by the user . Additionally the credit card issuers and and the user may be in communication with the institution system via a communications network. Similarly the credit card issuers and the aggregation service and the institution system may be in communication with each other via a communications network.

In an implementation the user may register one or more credit cards with the institution system e.g. via the website . Alternatively the user may register the credit cards with the institution system by any other electronic or physical techniques. Registration may include the user identifying various credit cards and providing authorization credentials to allow the institution system to access associated credit card information.

The credit card engine may issue and process one or more credit cards of the user issued by the institution system e.g. the institution credit card using a credit card issuer processor . The aggregator may gather and maintain information pertaining to the credit cards of the user issued by the institution system and or external entities such as the credit card issuer and the credit card issuer . Any techniques for gathering and maintaining information may be used. As noted above the aggregator may retrieve information from internal data source s and external data source s by a data source access engine . The internal data source s may contain data metadata email files and or documents that the institution system maintains pertaining to the user such as personal data such as name physical address email address etc. credit card data account data as well as other account information.

Additionally the aggregator may request and receive information pertaining to the credit cards purchases and or items from the user and or the vendor . This information may be used in transfer of a balance. After retrieving or otherwise receiving information from the various sources the aggregator may provide the information to a balance transfer processor and or may store the information in storage such as storage or the internal data source s .

The balance transfer processor may access the information and use tools and or applications for example to analyze the information and initiate a balance transfer as described further herein. The balance transfer processor may also send a request to the user requesting instructions regarding a balance transfer or other payment to a credit card. The balance transfer processor may receive instructions from the user and act on the instructions accordingly.

A user access system may be communicatively coupled to the credit card engine and may be configured to send machine readable instructions to the credit card engine . As mentioned above the institution system may provide a unified graphical presentation output. The unified graphical presentation may be transmitted to the user access system. In an implementation the unified graphical presentation may be combined with other materials and transmitted to the user . In an implementation the unified graphical presentation is received by the user access system and transmitted directly to the user without the inclusion of any other materials.

The user access system may be implemented as a web server in an implementation. The user access system through the use of any suitable interactive web technology provides an interactive experience to the user through which access to credit card and account data and status and related data can be accomplished. The user may enter information into the web pages via a web browser on the user computing device . Any technology that provides interactivity through a web browser is considered to be within the scope of the present discussion and may include without limitation Hyper Text Mark Up Language HTML Dynamic HTML DHTML JavaScript and Ajax.

The institution system may include any combination of systems and sub systems such as electronic devices including but not limited to computers servers databases or the like. The electronic devices may include any combination of hardware components such as processors databases storage drives registers cache random access memory RAM chips data buses or the like and or software components such as operating systems database management applications or the like.

The institution system may comprise one or more computing devices . The computing device s may have one or more processors storage e.g. storage devices memory etc. and software modules . The computing device s including its processor s storage and software modules may be used in the performance of the techniques and operations described herein.

Examples of software modules may include modules that may be used in conjunction with issuing and maintaining a credit card generating web page content for display receiving instructions pertaining to balance transfers from the user and transferring balances for example. While specific functionality is described herein as occurring with respect to specific modules the functionality may likewise be performed by more fewer or other modules. An example computing device and its components are described in more detail with respect to .

At monitoring of the first credit card may be performed. The monitoring may be performed continuously or from time to time such as periodically e.g. daily weekly the closing date of the credit card billing cycle the first day of each month sometime during the credit card s grace period etc. . In an implementation the institution system may receive a notice of the purchase from the credit card issuer or the aggregation service. As noted above the credit card issuer may be associated with the institution system or be a separate entity. Alternatively the institution system may perform the monitoring by accessing the first credit card information e.g. using the authorization credentials.

The institution system may receive transaction data associated with the purchase at e.g. via the data source access engine and or from the aggregation service or credit card issuer. The transaction data may comprise an amount of the purchase for example. In an implementation the institution system may have access to the transaction data because of a relationship the institution system has with the credit card issuer. Alternatively or additionally the institution system may scrape the transaction data from a website associated with the credit card provided the institution system has the appropriate credentials and or authorization e.g. provided by the user the credit card issuer etc.

Optionally in an implementation at the user may be notified prior to the charge being transferred as described further herein. Notification may take place via a website email instant messaging phone facsimile mail etc. Additionally the user may be provided with the option to accept the transfer of the charge or decline the transfer of the charge. If the user declines the transfer of the charge the charge is not transferred and processing may end.

Assuming the user accepts the transfer of the charge or is not notified the institution system may initiate a payment to the first credit card issuer to pay the charge associated with the purchase at . The payment may be made using a second credit card which may be a lower interest rate credit card of the user thereby transferring the charge for the purchase to the second credit card. The second credit card may be issued by any entity either associated with the institution system or not and may be issued by the same entity as the first credit card or a different entity. The transfer may occur before interest accrues on the charge on the first credit card.

The transfer may be performed with respect to a balance on the first credit card with payments made periodically such as weekly or monthly or may be performed with respect to a particular balance such as each time a purchase is made or when the balance reaches a certain amount such as 100 500 1000 etc. Alternatively or additionally the user may select certain types of transactions e.g. based on vendor product transaction size e.g. greater than 500 etc. for the balance transfer such as purchases made from a particular vendor or purchases of a certain product or corresponding to a particular merchant category code MCC . In this manner the balance transfer may only take place if the charge is associated with a predetermined type of transaction data.

In an implementation the payment may be made to the first credit card issuer using an account or other funding source associated with the user such as a checking account or equity line of credit instead of a second credit card. Alternatively a portion of the payment may be made to the first credit card issuer using an account or other funding source and another portion of the payment may be made using the second credit card.

At the user may be alerted to the transfer of the charge via a website email instant messaging phone facsimile mail etc. Monitoring of the first credit card may continue with processing continuing at .

Although examples described herein may refer to transfer between credit cards of different interest rates it is contemplated that shadowing may be performed such that transfers may occur between credit cards based on factors other than interest rates such as from a user s spouse s credit card to the user s credit card or from a user s child s credit card to the user s credit card.

At information pertaining to an amount of available credit on a second credit card e.g. a lower interest rate credit card than the first credit card may be obtained. In an implementation the institution system may obtain the information pertaining to the amount of available credit from the second credit card issuer or via the data source access engine. Alternatively or additionally the institution system may scrape the information from a website associated with the credit card provided the institution system has the appropriate credentials and or authorization e.g. provided by the user the credit card issuer etc.

At the balance on the first credit card may be compared with the amount of available credit on the second credit card to determine if there is sufficient credit available for a balance transfer. If there is sufficient credit available the balance may transferred from the first credit card to the second credit card at . In an implementation the institution system may initiate a payment to the first credit card issuer to pay the balance using similar techniques as those described at .

If there is insufficient credit available on the second credit card to pay the balance on the first credit card the balance may not be transferred and the user may be notified at . A portion of the balance e.g. up to the available credit limit may be transferred to the second credit card. Alternatively or additionally at the balance or a portion of the balance may be transferred to another credit card identified by the user. In an implementation the user may provide instructions e.g. via email a website instant messaging facsimile mail etc. identifying an account e.g. a checking account an equity line of credit etc. with which to pay the balance or a portion of the balance. Thus the balance or a portion of the balance from one credit card may be transferred among multiple other credit cards or accounts.

At the balances available credit limits and interest rates of the credit cards may be obtained e.g. from the user the credit card issuer s the aggregation service by scraping the data from websites associated with the credit cards provided the institution system has the appropriate credentials and or authorization e.g. provided by the user the credit card issuer etc.

At the balances available credit limits and interest rates may be analyzed by the institution system. It may be determined which balances are on the credit card s with the higher or highest interest rate s and whether there is available credit on the credit card s with the lower or lowest interest rate s .

At the balances or a portion thereof may be transferred from one or more of the credit cards such as the credit cards with higher interest rates to one or more other credit cards such as the credit cards with lower interest rates as long as there is available credit on the credit card s to which the balances are being transferred. In this manner a transfer may be made from the highest interest rate credit card s to the lowest interest rate credit card s .

Numerous other general purpose or special purpose computing system environments or configurations may be used. Examples of well known computing systems environments and or configurations that may be suitable for use include but are not limited to PCs server computers handheld or laptop devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based systems network PCs minicomputers mainframe computers embedded systems distributed computing environments that include any of the above systems or devices and the like.

Computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by a computer may be used. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Distributed computing environments may be used where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network or other data transmission medium. In a distributed computing environment program modules and other data may be located in both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices.

With reference to an exemplary system for implementing aspects described herein includes a computing device such as computing device . In its most basic configuration computing device typically includes at least one processing unit and system memory . Depending on the exact configuration and type of computing device system memory may be volatile such as RAM non volatile such as read only memory ROM flash memory etc. or some combination of the two. This most basic configuration is illustrated in by dashed line .

Computing device may have additional features and or functionality. For example computing device may include additional storage removable and or non removable including but not limited to magnetic or optical disks or tape. Such additional storage is illustrated in by removable storage and non removable storage .

Computing device typically includes a variety of computer readable media. Computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by computing device and include both volatile and non volatile media and removable and non removable media. By way of example and not limitation computer readable media may comprise computer storage media and communication media.

Computer storage media include volatile and non volatile and removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. System memory removable storage and non removable storage are all examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media include but are not limited to RAM ROM Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by computing device . Any such computer storage media may be part of computing device .

Computing device may also contain communication connection s that allow the computing device to communicate with other devices. Communication connection s is an example of communication media. Communication media typically embody computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and include any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media include wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic radio frequency RF infrared and other wireless media. The term computer readable media as used herein includes both storage media and communication media.

Computing device may also have input device s such as a keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device etc. Output device s such as a display speakers printer etc. may also be included. All these devices are well known in the art and need not be discussed at length here.

Computing device may be one of a plurality of computing devices inter connected by a network. As may be appreciated the network may be any appropriate network each computing device may be connected thereto by way of communication connection s in any appropriate manner and each computing device may communicate with one or more of the other computing devices in the network in any appropriate manner. For example the network may be a wired or wireless network within an organization or home or the like and may include a direct or indirect coupling to an external network such as the Internet or the like.

It should be understood that the various techniques described herein may be implemented in connection with hardware or software or where appropriate with a combination of both. Thus the methods and apparatus of the presently disclosed subject matter or certain aspects or portions thereof may take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the presently disclosed subject matter. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device generally includes a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device.

One or more programs may implement or utilize the processes described in connection with the presently disclosed subject matter e.g. through the use of an application programming interface API reusable controls or the like. Such programs may be implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s can be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and it may be combined with hardware implementations.

Although exemplary embodiments may refer to utilizing aspects of the presently disclosed subject matter in the context of one or more stand alone computer systems the subject matter is not so limited but rather may be implemented in connection with any computing environment such as a network or distributed computing environment. Still further aspects of the presently disclosed subject matter may be implemented in or across a plurality of processing chips or devices and storage may similarly be effected across a plurality of devices. Such devices might include PCs network servers and handheld devices for example.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

