---

title: Personalized biometric identification and non-repudiation system
abstract: A system and a method for providing a personalized biometric identification system to facilitate in securing critical transactions have been disclosed. The system includes a server which captures pre-designated biometric prints of a user, personalizes them and registers them on a bio print reader, owned by the user, over a unidirectional non-Internet based channel. The system overcomes the challenges involved in employing biometrics as a part of non-repudiation process for authorizing Internet based critical transactions for multiple entities by assuring the safety of the biometric prints of the users and eliminating additional hardware requirements.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08775814&OS=08775814&RS=08775814
owner: Tata Consultancy Services Ltd.
number: 08775814
owner_city: 
owner_country: IN
publication_date: 20120828
---
This application claims priority from Indian Patent Application Serial Number 1072 MUM 2012 filed on Apr. 2 2013 entitled A Personalized Biometric Identification And Non Repudiation System which is hereby incorporated by reference herein.

The term authentication token in this specification relates to a challenge response based multi factor authentication process wherein a user is challenged with a session specific One Time Password OTP One Time Equation OTE or biometric verification for authorizing a critical transaction.

The term bio print reader in this specification relates to an electronic device owned by individuals that can be in the form of a swipe card a smart card smart phone or the like gadgets to facilitate the non repudiation process.

The term biometric print in this specification relates to any one or a combination of a fingerprint a palm print at least one iris image or vocal characteristics utilized for authenticating a user.

The term critical transaction in this specification relates to any online or offline action or event which requires the identity and credentials of a user to be verified before allowing access to sensitive information or entry to a restricted zone.

The term non Internet based channel in this specification relates to a hardwired or private data transfer path used for communication between two devices. The term terminal in this specification relates to a mobile phone a desktop a laptop a tablet PC a Point of Sales equipment or the like devices which include at least one input device like a keyboard keypad touch screen input camera bar code reader and voice inputs and at least one output device like a display and connectivity to the Internet to communicate with a remote server.

Security is one of the key areas of concern in today s time both at national and local levels. While breach of security systems at various ports of entry can lead to illegitimate people entering a country causing national threat. At a local level a compromise on the Internet security can lead to huge financial losses for individuals or to their corporate.

Biometric authentication systems have been around for a while now and slowly these systems are being implemented for gearing up security both at the national and local levels.

At the local level biometric based authentication devices have been in use. However the scope of these devices is restricted to access control applications. In access control applications biometric prints have been used to give users access to their homes offices or personal property like electronic devices cars electronic safes and the like. However these systems do not harness the true capability of biometric systems.

Lately cyber crimes are increasing by the hour with fraudulent individuals hacking into financial accounts e commerce sites and databases holding sensitive information. Hence there is felt a need for not only a security mechanism which can safeguard the sensitive information and provide access to only genuine users but also non repudiate in terms law of a land s forensic requirements. Biometric based authentication for conducting e commerce e banking transactions is one such mechanism. However this form of authentication has not been widely accepted due to implementation challenges faced by retail markets for capturing and storing bio prints of users in advance and the need for specialized hardware in the form of biometric scanners to scan and transmit the bio prints to authenticate users.

Many governmental agencies across the globe have now installed biometric reading gadgets at various ports of entry to obtain biometric prints of incumbent travelers which offer Go or No Go to gate the entry. In addition to obtaining biometric prints the government agencies are also issuing biometric visas which include a copy of the travelers digital photo and selected biometric print. The biometric print in the visa is compared with the real time scan of the individual s biometric prints at the port of entry to confirm the identity of the traveler.

In one of such endeavors Government of India is working under Unique Identification UID program to develop country vide bio print repository as a tool to identify the citizens of India and use the identification information for possible use in e Commerce.

To combat both the national and local level security issues biometric presents a strong authentication solution. Biometric mechanisms enable agencies at the national and local level to capture a combination of biometric prints of users including fingerprints iris scan voice scan and the like which can be stored at a central location. The users can be authenticated using the biometric scan stored at the central repository for granting access.

However users all over the world are skeptical about passing their biometric prints on any communication media during or even after the authentication process. As in the event that the biometric prints are compromised a user will completely loose his her bio identity and future access to any of the biometric based systems because biometric based systems have no password reset mechanism unlike in number or picture based challenge response process.

At the same length the BFI s Banking Finance and Insurance are the most affected parties in business due to cash loss as a result of false or imposter authentication. Hence the BFI s demand a more clear and unambiguous non repudiation process in place while offering ease of operation to their clients by bringing in the much required confidence to use the net based transaction.

Further currently at the national level in India the UID or any equivalent agency doesn t undertake the task of capturing the biometric prints of travelling or visiting foreigners to determine their authenticity during their temporary relocation. Therefore there is felt a need for a system which 

It is an object of the present disclosure to provide a system which harnesses the true capability of biometric authentication and non repudiation process and which can also be utilized for forensic applications.

It is another object of the present disclosure to provide a system which ensures that a user s biometric prints are not transmitted over the Internet.

It is still another object of the present disclosure to provide a system which overcomes the challenges faced in providing biometric based authentication and authorization mechanisms.

It is yet another object of the present disclosure to provide a system which prevents tampering of biometric prints of users while conducting critical transactions.

The present disclosure envisages a personalized biometric identification and non repudiation system to facilitate in securing critical transactions for users the system comprising 

Typically the unique Device identification Number is embossed on the bio print reader the unique device identification number is selected from the group consisting of a 2D bar code a twelve digit code and a Quick Response QR code.

Preferably the unidirectional non Internet based communication channel is selected from the group consisting of a flicker window an application programmable optical interface and a smart card reader writer interface hardwired to the server.

In accordance with this disclosure there is provided a method for identifying users via biometrics and performing non repudiation for securing critical transactions the method comprising the following steps 

Furthermore the step of registering the personalized biometric prints of the user includes the following steps 

The drawings and the description thereto are merely illustrative of a personalized biometric identification and non repudiation system and a forensic fit non repudiation procedure and only exemplify the invention and in no way limit the scope thereof.

The capabilities of biometric based authentication subsystems are not used to the fullest extent by existing authentication mechanisms. The reasons for the same can be attributed to the hardware related challenges involved in employing biometrics as a part of a non repudiation process for authorizing Internet based critical transactions. And the fears of users of losing their identity in the event that the biometric prints are tampered. To overcome the aforementioned challenges the present disclosure proposes a personalized biometric identification and non repudiation system for users.

The proposed system provides personalized low latency bio print readers which are owned by users and hold their biometric prints bio prints. These bio print readers include at least one biometric sensor which can capture and process biometric prints of a user in real time and thus facilitate in verifying the identity of a user in a non repudiation process. As each bio print reader is uniquely associated with only one user and holds the user s biometric prints the overhead faced by the retail or merchant websites of maintaining users biometric prints and providing individual biometric scanners is eliminated. Thus using the same bio print reader a user can perform multiple critical transactions for a plurality of vendors agencies either over the Internet or to get authorized at a port of entry.

In accordance with this disclosure the system also includes a TRUST server which performs a unidirectional non Internet based communication with a plurality of bio print readers. The server provides a hardwired or optical or private channel based interface to the bio print readers using at least one of a flicker window an application programming optical interface on a personal computer mobile device or a smart card writer reader which are not connected to Internet but physically wired to the TRUST server. A similar non Internet based interface is also provided to biometric scanners to collect bio prints from users for personalization of their bio print readers.

The TRUST server authorities performs the crucial task of extracting the bio prints and processing them in conformance with the standards set by a selected governmental agency. The TRUST server performs a three step process of capturing the bio prints personalizing them and registering the personalized bio prints on a bio print reader associated with a user.

The TRUST server after capturing the bio prints performs algorithm engineering to transform the captured bio prints to be compatible to the user s bio print reader. The server then extracts only the salient distinguishing features from the captured bio prints represented as Bio print identification Number BiN for personalization. The process of personalization of bio prints involves executing a hash function on the salient features along with a randomly generated number to derive a personalized biometric signature represented by User identification Number UiN . The UiN is a combination of up to 256 bits of a random hash of the salient features and a random number. The compatible BiN is stored on a corresponding user s bio print reader along with the UiN. Also the TRUST server stores personal security protocols key management process on the bio print reader to enable the bio print reader to carry out the non repudiation process based computations.

For registering the user s bio print reader the TRUST server generates a device specific random code typically a unique twelve digit Device identification Number DiN which is embossed on the bio print reader for discretely identifying the bio print reader and its corresponding user. The twelve digits DiN is embossed either as a 2D bar code a QR code or a digit based series. The registration step may also include associating the twelve digit code with the country specific unique identification code passport number or homeland details to closely tie the bio print reader details with the identity of the user.

After the personalization and registration steps the TRUST server erases any copy of the original biometric prints collected by it. Instead the TRUST server only stores the UiN Bin and DiN along with the other registration details of the user in a bio repository.

In accordance with this disclosure for activation of the personalized bio print reader the user provides his her predetermined bio print swipe on the reader s biometric sensor and if the real time swipe after processing matches the stored BiN then the bio print reader is ready for use for any critical transaction.

In yet another process a token is encrypted either using UiN in full or partial or any challenge number derived from the TRUST server which has compatibility for non symmetric cryptography.

Thus the present disclosure offers biometric based authentication and authorization of users for multiple enterprises including banks point of sales and Banking Financial and Insurance BFI domain as a part of multi factor authentication over the Internet without compromising on the security as well as the biometric identity of the user.

For use in the aforementioned applications as the bio print reader is a non transmitting device it couples with a terminal over a non Internet based channel to facilitate the non repudiation process. Typically for a POS type of critical transaction the bio print reader facilitates swipe less payment by enabling users to establish their identity with the TRUST server and accordingly allow direct debit of the due amount from a pre linked e bank account.

Furthermore the TRUST server is also embedded with a 256 bit Advanced Encryption Standard AES algorithm which is installed on a cloud or on a hosted server to encrypt and transmit typically a flicker code based token. The back end application security of the TRUST server is conducted using Public Key Infrastructure PKI Symmetric Key Infrastructure SKI Clock synchronous Linear Feedback Shift Register LFSR Secure Socket Layer SSL tunnels and Key management and is managed on the hosted server. The TRUST server also includes a small Application Programming Interface API which offers secondary Domain Name System DNS management and session specific security to any authorizing application server e.g. banking application server post authentication. In addition the TRUST server includes a Geo locating commercial solution which is installed typically on the cloud to trace the details of a merchant.

In accordance with this disclosure for performing a secure online transaction retail transaction the following easy to adopt steps have been envisaged 

In addition the TRUST server of the present disclosure displays the credentials of the user associated with the bio print reader along with the geographical location and details of the retail store or merchant for confirmation before transmitting the encrypting token. This enables the users to ascertain their geo location and the POS terminal details before payment.

Alternatively the system envisaged by the present disclosure can display the decrypted challenge token on user s bio personal gadget in the form of an OTP One Time Password and or OTE one time equation or CAPTCHA pictures in the event that bio print reader doesn t work to satisfaction. In this scenario the stored UiN plays the decryption role to extract the session based encrypted token. However user has to communicate the choice of challenge process in advance to the server and configure appropriate setting on his her bio print reader for that particular session only.

Thus the actual security of the bio print reader is achieved by the combination of the DiN and UiN as the first line challenge response process whereas the BiN is only used at the device decryption level to display the decrypted authentication token i.e. the OTP or the OTE contents. This mechanism offers strong online Internet based communication line security and highly personalized BiN for bio print reader level security.

Furthermore the proposed system offers a non repudiation process which facilitates any governmental agency or a national body in forensically repudiating users. The proposed forensic non repudiation process computes a unique Hash which is derived from a set of unique random numbers and Bio print extracts of a user. Such a hash UiN is stored using a Bank s Public key. A similar PKI process is implemented at banking server to encrypt the OTP OTE token before transmitting it on any hostile network. The user s bio print reader and on board computing process decrypts the token to extract the OTP OTE.

Further in the event of a non repudiation contest where the user denies the transaction the procedure disclosed hereinafter can be implemented to prove He is Who He is . This is achieved by the system envisaged by the present disclosure by proving that a particular DiN corresponds to only one UiN which is used to encrypt the token and can only be read by the correct user device and can only be decrypted by one device that user is owning and further the token can be displayed only with the user s BiN.

The following steps have been envisaged in the event that any government agency national body or law enforcing agency wants to forensically repudiate users for any legal implications wherein the users are in possession of their corresponding personalized bio print readers 

A similar exercise has to be undertaken to re issue a personalized new bio print reader to a user in the event of a loss or damage of their personal Bio print readers viz user to offer new set of bio prints at registration center compute new hash UiN and compare it with earlier repository and they old and new UiN match then banks can issue a new gadget post personalization else banks have to undertake a typical KYC route.

Referring to the accompanying drawings illustrates a schematic of the personalized biometric identification and non repudiation system to facilitate in securing critical transactions for users. The system comprises a TRUST server which co operates with a plurality of bio print readers X Xto X collectively represented by over a unidirectional non Internet based channel. The unidirectional non Internet based channel is used by the TRUST server to firstly capture designated biometric prints of a user and secondly to transfer a personalized biometric signature and registered unique device identification number to a corresponding bio prints reader . The TRUST server also performs the task of executing a non repudiation process to identify and authenticate a user and generate a non repudiation certificate for authorizing a critical transaction.

The TRUST server for performing the aforementioned tasks includes a bio print capturing unit which interfaces with a biometric scanner not shown in the figures to collect at least one biometric print in conformance with pre selected governmental agency standards. The bio print capturing unit is typically hosted in a service center which offers personalization of the bio print readers . The biometric scanner is hardwired to the bio print capturing unit and the bio print capture process is carried out in conformance with the process used in UID Passport Seva in India US Homeland or the like depending on the governmental agency selected. The bio print capturing unit further applies a transformation function on the captured biometric print to make it compatible to a corresponding user s bio print reader .

For personalizing the captured bio prints the TRUST server includes a personalization unit . The personalization unit further includes a feature extraction means that digitizes and extracts salient features from the captured biometric print and forwards it to personalization means . The extracted salient features are further represented with a Bio print identification Number BiN .

The personalization means includes a random number generator not shown in the figure which is used to generate a random number. This random number is used by the personalization means to perform a hash function on the salient features to generate at least one personalized biometric signature typically in the form of a User identification Number UiN . The BiN and UiN are transferred onto the bio print reader via the communication unit over a unidirectional non Internet based channel.

After personalization the TRUST server registers the bio print reader for a particular user via a registration unit . The registration unit also includes random number generation means which generates a unique Device identification Number DiN for a bio print reader . The registration unit further includes registration means which registers and transfers the DiN to a bio print reader corresponding to a user via the communication unit . The DiN is typically embossed on the bio print reader in at least one of the forms selected from a 2D bar code a twelve digit code and a Quick Response QR code.

In accordance with this disclosure the communication unit transfers the aforementioned data onto the bio print reader over a unidirectional one way non Internet based channel which can be at least one of a flicker window an application programmable optical interface and a smart card reader writer interface hardwired to the TRUST server .

The registration unit also includes gadget authentication means which initiates a first one time self authentication request to a bio print reader to activate the bio print reader s registration. The self authentication requires the user to provide his her real time biometric print on the scanner provided on his her bio print reader . This real time biometric print is processed by the bio print reader and compared with the BiN if the real time biometric print and the BiN match then the bio print reader s registration is complete it is activated and ready for use. The bio print reader is then handed over to the corresponding user for usage.

The TRUST server erases all the bio prints acquired during personalization and only stores the UiN along with the corresponding user s details and bio print reader s unique DiN in a bio repository .

In addition to personalizing the bio print readers the TRUST server also executes the non repudiation process and identifies and authenticates a user to generate a non repudiation certificate for authorizing a critical transaction. The TRUST server includes an authentication unit which generates at least one encrypted authentication token on receiving an incoming authentication request. The authentication token is a challenge response type of multi factor authentication based token wherein biometric verification can also be included as one of the factors.

In accordance with this disclosure the incoming authentication request is received from a terminal not shown in the figures performing a critical transaction like requesting for debit of an amount access to BFI websites or the like. The authentication token is typically an OTP or OTE and encrypted in the form of a flicker code and transmitted to the requesting terminal. The token is encrypted by the authentication unit using the User identification Number in full or partial or using any challenge number which is compatible for non symmetric cryptography.

In accordance with another aspect of this disclosure the TRUST server performs the task of forensically repudiating a user to prove that He is Who He is . For forensically repudiating a user the TRUST server further comprises retrieving means that retrieves the user s stored DiN and corresponding UiN from the bio repository . A triggering means then instructs the bio print capturing unit and the personalization unit to trigger the process of recapturing the user s biometric prints and computing a new UiN. On generation of the new UiN the triggering means means further instructs verification means to compare the retrieved old UiN received from the retrieving means with the new UiN. The verification means confirms the identity of the user if the old and new identification numbers match. The verification confirmation is sent via the communication unit to the concerned governmental authority agency BFI who wants to perform the forensic show down. The TRUST server also performs the identity verification to re issue a new personalized bio print reader to a user in the event of loss or damage of their personal Bio print reader .

The personalized bio print readers which are discretely associated with the users perform an important part in the repudiation process. The terminal while sending the authentication request transmits the unique device identification number DiN of the bio print reader owned by the user performing the critical transaction. The unique DiN of the bio print reader is transmitted to the TRUST server by either scanning the 2D barcode QR code or keying in the twelve digit code or as an image of the 2D barcode QR code via the camera.

The TRUST server acknowledges the receipt of the unique device identification number of the bio print reader by returning the details of the corresponding user from the bio repository and the location of the terminal using a GPS application . Once the details are confirmed by the user via the input device at the terminal the TRUST server transmits a session specific encrypted authentication token for display on the terminal. The bio print reader facilitates the non repudiation process by verifying the identity of a user by prompting the user to provide his her pre designated biometric prints and matching them with the BiN embedded by the TRUST server . On verification the bio print reader decrypts the encrypted authentication token using the UiN and displays the session specific authentication token. The response for the authentication token is entered by the user on the terminal for sending to the TRUST server for verification. On successful verification the TRUST server generates a non repudiation certificate and authorizes a critical transaction. The TRUST server co operates with a plurality of application servers not shown in the figure which are merchant e commerce retail banking or the like web sites for facilitating critical transactions.

In accordance with this disclosure the bio print reader includes a read only memory which stores the compatible bio prints and at least one personalized biometric print of a user. The bio print reader also includes at least one biometric sensor and an optical sensor collectively represented by . The sensors are employed to sense at least one encrypted authentication token optically and at least one predetermined biometric print of a user.

The optical sensor is used to optically couple and read the encrypted flicker code based authentication token from the display of the terminal. On reading the encrypted authentication token the bio print reader prompts the user to provide his her biometric prints to decrypt the token. The biometric sensor receives the pre designated prints of the user and passes them to a microprocessor .

The microprocessor is embedded with custom applications including security protocols biometric hash and key management application by the TRUST server and co operates with the read only memory and the sensors . The microprocessor processes the sensed biometric print by extracting the salient features to generate a biometric signature. The microprocessor then compares the biometric signature with the BiN stored in the memory and decrypts the encrypted authentication token using the UiN and the key management application in the event that the biometric prints match.

The bio print reader also includes a display which co operates with the microprocessor to receive and display the decrypted authentication token. The bio print reader also includes a rechargeable power supply which co operates with the microprocessor to energize the bio print reader . The power supply can be recharged via a USB Universal Serial Bus port. Thus the bio print reader does not connect to the Internet for verifying the identity of users and therefore keeps the biometric prints of the users secure tamper free and in the custody of the users themselves.

In accordance with this disclosure following is a typical scenario for facilitating swipe less payment in a restaurant hotel using the proposed system 

In accordance with this disclosure there is provided a method for identifying users and performing non repudiation via biometrics for securing critical transactions the method comprising the following steps as seen in 

Further the method for personalizing the captured biometric prints includes the steps of applying a transformation function to make the captured biometric prints compatible with the corresponding user s bio print reader extracting salient features from the captured biometric prints of the user and representing them as the Bio print identification Number generating and using a random number to apply a hash on the salient features of user s biometric prints to compute the User identification Number and storing the Bio print identification Number and the User identification Number on the bio print reader corresponding to the user over an unidirectional non Internet based channel.

Still further the method for registering the personalized biometric prints of the user includes the step of generating a unique random number as the Device identification Number for a bio print reader embossing the unique Device identification Number on the bio print reader in the form selected from the group consisting of a 2D barcode a QR code and a twelve digit code and storing the unique Device identification Number and the User identification Number in a bio repository.

Furthermore the method for facilitating the non repudiation process includes the steps of sensing the biometric prints of a user on a corresponding bio print reader extracting salient features of the sensed biometric prints at the bio print reader and comparing the extracting salient features with the Bio print identification Number to verify the identity of the user.

In addition the method comprises the following steps for forensically repudiating a user or issuing a new bio print reader 

The technical advantages of the present disclosure include providing a personalized biometric identification system that harnesses the power of biometric systems without compromising on the safety of the biometric prints of users.

The system captures biometric prints of users for personalization in conformance with standards laid by governmental agencies over a non Internet based channel. Also the system ensures that no record of the originally captured biometric print is stored on any server after personalization.

Additionally the system provides low latency bio print readers that are owned by the users that facilitate storage of the biometric prints of the users and in the non repudiation process.

Further the system prevents tampering of the biometric prints of the users by ensuring that the biometric prints are not transmitted over the Internet for conducting non repudiation.

Still further the system ensures that the biometric prints of users are not stored centrally at any server but with the users themselves on their bio print readers. In effect user will own and use their bio prints for any e Transactions.

Furthermore the proposed system overcomes the challenges faced by retail markets e commerce e transaction and e banking applications in adding biometric as a part of the multi factor authentication suit by providing users with personalized bio print readers which not only holds their original biometric prints but also facilitates in issuing non repudiation certificates for authorizing critical transactions. Thus the retail markets e commerce and e banking applications do not have to face the challenge of providing a discrete biometric scanner to add biometric as a part of each of their multi factor authentication suits. The proposed system can also be used as a strong escrow management authentication tool for managers of multiple business disciplines.

In addition the proposed system provides a strong non repudiation process to enable any future forensic trail.

Throughout this specification the word comprise or variations such as comprises or comprising will be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated element integer or step or group of elements integers or steps but not the exclusion of any other element integer or step or group of elements integers or steps.

The use of the expression at least or at least one suggests the use of one or more elements or ingredients or quantities as the use may be in the embodiment of the disclosure to achieve one or more of the desired objects or results.

Any discussion of documents acts materials devices articles or the like that has been included in this specification is solely for the purpose of providing a context for the disclosure. It is not to be taken as an admission that any or all of these matters form part of the prior art base or were common general knowledge in the field relevant to the disclosure as it existed anywhere before the priority date of this application.

It is to be understood that although the invention has been described above in terms of particular embodiments the foregoing embodiments are provided as illustrative only and do not limit or define the scope of the invention. Various other embodiments including but not limited to the following are also within the scope of the claims. For example elements and components described herein may be further divided into additional components or joined together to form fewer components for performing the same functions.

Any of the functions disclosed herein may be implemented using means for performing those functions. Such means include but are not limited to any of the components disclosed herein such as the computer related components described below.

The techniques described above may be implemented for example in hardware one or more computer programs tangibly stored on one or more computer readable media firmware or any combination thereof. The techniques described above may be implemented in one or more computer programs executing on or executable by a programmable computer including any combination of any number of the following a processor a storage medium readable and or writable by the processor including for example volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements an input device and an output device. Program code may be applied to input entered using the input device to perform the functions described and to generate output using the output device.

Each computer program within the scope of the claims below may be implemented in any programming language such as assembly language machine language a high level procedural programming language or an object oriented programming language. The programming language may for example be a compiled or interpreted programming language.

Each such computer program may be implemented in a computer program product tangibly embodied in a machine readable storage device for execution by a computer processor. Method steps of the invention may be performed by one or more computer processors executing a program tangibly embodied on a computer readable medium to perform functions of the invention by operating on input and generating output. Suitable processors include by way of example both general and special purpose microprocessors. Generally the processor receives reads instructions and data from a memory such as a read only memory and or a random access memory and writes stores instructions and data to the memory. Storage devices suitable for tangibly embodying computer program instructions and data include for example all forms of non volatile memory such as semiconductor memory devices including EPROM EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROMs. Any of the foregoing may be supplemented by or incorporated in specially designed ASICs application specific integrated circuits or FPGAs Field Programmable Gate Arrays . A computer can generally also receive read programs and data from and write store programs and data to a non transitory computer readable storage medium such as an internal disk not shown or a removable disk. These elements will also be found in a conventional desktop or workstation computer as well as other computers suitable for executing computer programs implementing the methods described herein which may be used in conjunction with any digital print engine or marking engine display monitor or other raster output device capable of producing color or gray scale pixels on paper film display screen or other output medium.

Any data disclosed herein may be implemented for example in one or more data structures tangibly stored on a non transitory computer readable medium. Embodiments of the invention may store such data in such data structure s and read such data from such data structure s .

