---

title: Communication hub for presenting audio-visual data from electronic devices and method of providing and using the same
abstract: Some embodiments include a communication hub for presenting audio-visual data from electronic devices. Other embodiments of related systems and methods are disclosed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09032029&OS=09032029&RS=09032029
owner: Belkin International, Inc.
number: 09032029
owner_city: Playa Vista
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120821
---
This application is continuation of International Patent Application No. PCT US2012 042812 filed Jun. 15 2012. International Patent Application No. PCT US2012 042812 claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 498 253 filed Jun. 17 2011. International Patent Application No. PCT US2012 042812 and U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 498 253 are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety.

This invention relates generally to communication hubs and relates more particularly to such communication hubs for presenting audio visual data from multiple electronic devices and methods of providing and using the same.

When presenting audio visual data via one or more audio visual devices during a conference it can be cumbersome and or inconvenient for the participants of the conference to individually couple each electronic device of the multiple electronic devices to the one or more audio visual devices in order to present the audio visual data stored on the multiple electronic devices to the various participants of the conference. Accordingly a need or potential for benefit exists for an apparatus or system that facilitates communication between the multiple electronic devices and the one or more audio visual devices.

For simplicity and clarity of illustration the drawing figures illustrate the general manner of construction and descriptions and details of well known features and techniques can be omitted to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the invention. Additionally elements in the drawing figures are not necessarily drawn to scale. For example the dimensions of some of the elements in the figures can be exaggerated relative to other elements to help improve understanding of embodiments of the present invention. The same reference numerals in different figures denote the same elements.

The terms first second third fourth and the like in the description and in the claims if any are used for distinguishing between similar elements and not necessarily for describing a particular sequential or chronological order. It is to be understood that the terms so used are interchangeable under appropriate circumstances such that the embodiments described herein are for example capable of operation in sequences other than those illustrated or otherwise described herein. Furthermore the terms include and have and any variations thereof are intended to cover a non exclusive inclusion such that a process method system article device or apparatus that comprises a list of elements is not necessarily limited to those elements but can include other elements not expressly listed or inherent to such process method system article device or apparatus.

The terms left right front back top bottom over under and the like in the description and in the claims if any are used for descriptive purposes and not necessarily for describing permanent relative positions. It is to be understood that the terms so used are interchangeable under appropriate circumstances such that the embodiments of the invention described herein are for example capable of operation in other orientations than those illustrated or otherwise described herein.

The terms couple coupled couples coupling and the like should be broadly understood and refer to connecting two or more elements or signals electrically mechanically and or otherwise. Two or more electrical elements can be electrically coupled together but not be mechanically or otherwise coupled together two or more mechanical elements can be mechanically coupled together but not be electrically or otherwise coupled together two or more electrical elements can be mechanically coupled together but not be electrically or otherwise coupled together. Coupling can be for any length of time e.g. permanent or semi permanent or only for an instant.

 Electrical coupling and the like should be broadly understood and include coupling involving any electrical signal whether a power signal a data signal and or other types or combinations of electrical signals. Mechanical coupling and the like should be broadly understood and include mechanical coupling of all types.

The absence of the word removably removable and the like near the word coupled and the like does not mean that the coupling etc. in question is or is not removable.

The term mobile electronic device as used herein refers to at least one of a digital music player a digital video player a digital music and video player a cellular phone e.g. smartphone a personal digital assistant a handheld digital computer e.g. a tablet personal computer a laptop computer e.g. a notebook computer a netbook computer or another portable device with the capability to present audio and or visual data e.g. images videos music etc. . For example a mobile electrical device can comprise the iPod or iPhone or iTouch or iPad or MacBook product by Apple Inc. of Cupertino Calif. Likewise a mobile electrical device can comprise a Blackberry product by Research in Motion RIM of Waterloo Ontario Canada or a different product by a different manufacturer.

The term computer network as used herein can refer to a collection of computers and devices interconnected by communications channels that facilitate communications among users and allows users to share resources e.g. an internet connection an Ethernet connection etc. . The computers and devices can be interconnected and or implemented according to any one or any combination of wired and or wireless network topologies e.g. bus star tree line ring mesh daisy chain hybrid etc. and or protocols e.g. personal area network PAN protocol s local area network LAN protocol s wide area network WAN protocol s cellular network protocol s Powerline network protocol s etc. as desirable. Exemplary PAN protocol s can comprise Bluetooth Zigbee Wireless Universal Serial Bus USB Z Wave etc. exemplary LAN and or WAN protocol s can comprise Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers IEEE 802.3 IEEE 802.11 etc. and exemplary cellular network protocol s can comprise Global System for Mobile Communications GSM General Packet Radio Service GPRS Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Evolution Data Optimized EV DO Enhanced Data Rates for GSM Evolution EDGE 3GSM Digital Enhanced Cordless Telecommunications DECT Digital AMPS IS 136 Time Division Multiple Access TDMA Integrated Digital Enhanced Network iDEN etc. The components implementing the wired and or wireless communication can be dependent on the network topologies and or protocols in use and vice versa.

Some embodiments include a system. The system comprises a communication hub. The communication hub is configured a to communicate with multiple electronic devices and at least one audio visual device. Further the communication hub is configured to be paired with the multiple electronic devices when communicating with the multiple electronic devices. The multiple electronic devices can be separate from the communication hub. Meanwhile the communication hub can receive audio visual data from any one electronic device of the multiple electronic devices when the any one electronic device of the multiple electronic devices is operating as an active electronic device of the multiple electronic devices. Furthermore the communication hub can provide the audio visual data to the audio visual device s . The audio visual device s can present the audio visual data to at least one user of the system.

Various embodiments include a system. The system comprises a communication hub application software configured to be used at an electronic device. The communication hub application software can be executed at one or more processing modules and stored at one or more memory storage modules of an electronic device computer system. Meanwhile the communication hub application software can permit the electronic device to be paired with a communication hub when the electronic device is communicating with the communication hub. The communication hub can be configured to communicate with multiple electronic devices and at least one audio visual device and the multiple electronic devices can be separate from the communication hub and or can comprise the electronic device. Further the communication hub application software can permit the electronic device to operate as an active electronic device of the multiple electronic devices. The active electronic device can provide audio visual data to the communication hub when the electronic device is operating as the active electronic device of the multiple electronic devices. Likewise the communication hub can provide the audio visual data to the audio visual device s and the audio visual device s can present the audio visual data to at least one user of the system.

Further embodiment include a method of manufacturing a communication hub. The method can comprise configuring the communication hub to communicate with and to be paired with multiple electronic devices the multiple electronic devices being separate from the communication hub configuring the communication hub to communicate with at least one audio visual device configuring the communication hub to receive audio visual data from any one electronic device of the multiple electronic devices when the any one electronic device of the multiple electronic devices is operating as an active electronic device of the multiple electronic devices and configuring the communication hub to provide the audio visual data to the audio visual device s the audio visual device s being configured to present the audio visual data to at least one user of the communication hub.

Other embodiments include a method of manufacturing a communication hub software application to be used at an electronic device. The communication hub application software can be executed at one or more processing modules and or stored at one or more memory storage modules of an electronic device computer system. The method can comprise configuring the communication hub application software to permit the electronic device to be paired with a communication hub when the electronic device is communicating with the communication hub the communication hub being configured to communicate with multiple electronic devices and at least one audio visual device and the multiple electronic devices a being separate from the communication hub and b comprising the electronic device and configuring the communication hub application software to permit the electronic device to operate as an active electronic device of the multiple electronic devices the active electronic device being able to provide audio visual data to the communication hub when the electronic device is operating as the active electronic device of the multiple electronic devices where the communication hub is configured to provide the audio visual data to the audio visual device s and the audio visual device s is configured to present the audio visual data to at least one user of the system.

Still other embodiment include a method of operating a communication hub. At least part of the method can be implemented via execution of computer instructions configured to run at one or more processing modules and configured to be stored at one or more memory storage modules of the communication hub. The method can comprise executing one or more first computer instructions configured to establish communication of the communication hub with at least one audio visual device executing one or more second computer instructions configured to establish communication of the communication hub with and to pair the communication hub with multiple electronic devices after or when executing the one or more second computer instructions executing one or more third computer instructions configured to assign an active electronic device status to a first electronic device of the multiple electronic devices executing one or more fourth computer instructions configured to receive first audio visual data from the first electronic device when the first electronic device is operating with the active electronic device status and after or when executing the one or more first computer instructions or the one or more fourth computer instructions executing one or more fifth computer instructions configured to provide the first audio visual data to the at least one audio visual device. The computer instruction s comprise the first second third fourth and or fifth computer instructions.

Turning to the drawings illustrates system according to one embodiment. System is merely exemplary and is not limited to the embodiments presented herein. System can be employed in many different embodiments or examples not specifically depicted or described herein. System can be configured to permit multiple users e.g. user s to communicate and present audio visual data with one another e.g. during a conference by connecting electronic devices e.g. multiple electronic devices of the multiple users with a communication hub e.g. communication hub that can receive the audio visual data from the electronic devices and provide the audio visual data to an audio visual device e.g. audio visual device so that the audio visual device can present the audio visual data to the multiple users.

Referring now to system comprises communication hub . Communication hub is configured to communicate e.g. via wired and or wireless communication with multiple electronic devices . Multiple electronic devices can be operated by user s . In many embodiments at least part of communication hub can be configured to resemble at least part of a globe or an orb. Communication hub can also be configured to be placed on a table e.g. at the center of a conference table . Each of multiple electronic devices can be configured to run a software application e.g. a communication hub application software in order for multiple electronic devices to communicate and or pair with communication hub . Further the application software can permit multiple electronic devices to cooperate with communication hub to provide some or all of the functionality of system . as described below illustrates an exemplary embodiment of method of using a software application at an electronic device of multiple electronic devices to permit communication between the electronic device and a communication hub.

Although in some embodiments one or more of multiple electronic devices can be integral with communication hub in many embodiments multiple electronic devices are separate from communication hub . In this embodiment one or more electronic devices of multiple electronic devices can be located proximate to while remaining physically separate from communication hub and or one or more electronic devices of multiple electronic devices can be located remotely from communication hub in addition to being physically separate from communication hub . For example communication hub can permit some of user s to be present at a conference with their respective electronic devices of multiple electronic devices while others of user s are at another location away from connection hub and are communicating with connection hub and the local user s remotely. Accordingly system and or communication hub can comprise and or can be used along with at least one device permitting remote voice communication e.g. a conference telephone between users such as for example when one or more of multiple electronic devices are located remotely from communication hub . Skipping back in the drawings illustrate examples of system in which communication hub is communicating with multiple electronic devices according to the embodiment of .

Referring now to in some embodiments communication hub can comprise integrated wireless access point e.g. implemented via wired wireless communication component and antenna s as described below by which one or more electronic devices of multiple electronic devices and or audio visual device can directly and wirelessly communicate with communication hub . In some embodiments integrated wireless access point can comprise a wireless connection provided by a wireless network connection e.g. a a wireless local area network WLAN connection and or b a mesh network connection and or personal area network PAN connection . Exemplary PAN protocol s can comprise Bluetooth Zigbee Wireless Universal Serial Bus USB Z Wave etc. exemplary WLAN protocol s can comprise Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers IEEE 802.11 etc. In the same or different embodiments one or more electronic devices of multiple electronic devices and or audio visual device can be coupled with communication hub via an Ethernet cable e.g. an RJ 45 cable or at least one audio visual cable as described below to permit direct wired communication between the one or more electronic devices and or audio visual device and communication hub .

In some embodiments integrated wireless access point can be implemented by electrically tethering an electronic device of multiple electronic devices to communication hub where the electronic device is configured to wirelessly communicate with external wireless access point e.g. via the internet as described below and or a cellular telephone network. Exemplary cellular telephone network protocol s can comprise Global System for Mobile Communications GSM General Packet Radio Service GPRS Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Evolution Data Optimized EV DO Enhanced Data Rates for GSM Evolution EDGE 3GSM Digital Enhanced Cordless Telecommunications DECT Digital AMPS IS 136 Time Division Multiple Access TDMA Integrated Digital Enhanced Network iDEN etc. In these embodiments by tethering communication hub to the electronic device communication hub can provide a wireless hotspot via the electronic device e.g. integrated wireless access point to which one or more electronic devices of multiple electronic devices can electrically couple.

Referring now to in the same or different embodiments system can comprise wired network connection and or communication hub can be configured to permit communication via wired network connection e.g. a wired local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN connection . Accordingly one or more electronic devices of multiple electronic devices can indirectly communicate with communication hub via the wired network connection . For example wired network connection can be part of the computer network of the building in which communication hub is being used by user s . Meanwhile both communication hub and the one or more electronic devices of multiple electronic devices can then communicate with each other e.g. via the internet through wired network connection . In these embodiments the one or more electronic devices can be located remotely from communication hub e.g. another room building city state country etc. . In these embodiments system can still comprise integrated wireless access point . Further communication hub can still be configured to directly communicate via integrated wireless access point with multiple electronic devices and or audio visual device and or communication hub can still be configured to communicate via direct wired coupling with multiple electronic devices and or audio visual device .

Referring now to in the same or different embodiments system can comprise external wireless access point and or communication hub can be configured to permit indirect communication via external wireless access point e.g. a wireless network connection . Similar to wired network connection external wireless access point can be part of a computer network of the building in which communication hub is being used by user s . Accordingly one or more electronic devices of multiple electronic devices can communicate with communication hub via external wireless access point . For example in the example of both external wireless access point and wired network connection can be part of the computer network of the building in which communication hub is being used by user s . Meanwhile one or more electronic devices of multiple electronic devices can then communicate via the computer network with wireless external wireless access point . Communication hub can then be configured to receive any communications between the one or more electronic devices of multiple electronic devices and external wireless access point via wired network connection . In these embodiments system can also comprise integrated wireless access point and or wired network connection . Likewise communication hub can also be configured to directly communicate via integrated wireless access point not shown with multiple electronic devices and or audio visual device communication hub can also be configured to indirectly communicate via wired network connection with multiple electronic devices and or audio visual device and or communication hub can also be configured to communicate via direct wired coupling with multiple electronic devices and or audio visual device .

Referring now to in the same or different embodiments communication hub can also be configured to permit indirect communication with one or more electronic devices of multiple electronic devices via external wireless access point e.g. a wireless network connection where communication hub also communicates with the computer network via external wireless access point as opposed to wired network connection . In these embodiments system can also comprise integrated wireless access point and or wired network connection . Likewise communication hub can also be configured to directly communicate via integrated wireless access point not shown with multiple electronic devices and or audio visual device communication hub can also be configured to indirectly communicate via wired network connection with multiple electronic devices and or audio visual device communication hub can also be configured to communicate via direct wired coupling with multiple electronic devices and or audio visual device and or communication hub can also permit indirect communication via external wireless access point e.g. a wireless network connection with multiple electronic devices and or audio visual device as illustrated in .

Returning to each electronic device e.g. first electronic device and at least one other electronic device of multiple electronic devices can comprise a computer system. Each computer system can be similar or identical to computer system . Further each electronic device of multiple electronic devices can comprise a mobile electronic device as described above.

Turning back again in the drawings illustrates an exemplary embodiment of computer system that can be suitable for implementing an embodiment of the computer systems of each electronic device of multiple electronic devices and or another part of system as well as part or all of method method method method method method method method method and or method . Computer system includes chassis containing one or more circuit boards not shown Universal Serial Bus USB Compact Disc Read Only Memory CD ROM and or Digital Video Disc DVD drive and hard drive . A representative block diagram of the elements included on the circuit boards inside chassis is shown in . Central processing unit CPU in is coupled to system bus in . In various embodiments the architecture of CPU can be compliant with any of a variety of commercially distributed architecture families.

System bus also is coupled to memory where memory includes both read only memory ROM and random access memory RAM . Non volatile portions of memory or the ROM can be encoded with a boot code sequence suitable for restoring computer system to a functional state after a system reset. In addition memory can include microcode such as a Basic Input Output System BIOS . In some examples the one or more storage modules of the various embodiments disclosed herein can include memory USB hard drive and or CD ROM or DVD drive . In the same or different examples the one or more storage modules of the various embodiments disclosed herein can comprise an operating system which can be a software program that manages the hardware and software resources of a computer and or a computer network. The operating system can perform basic tasks such as for example controlling and allocating memory prioritizing the processing of instructions controlling input and output devices facilitating networking and managing files. Examples of common operating systems can include Microsoft Windows Mac operating system OS UNIX OS and Linux OS. Common operating systems for a mobile electronic device include the iPhone operating system by Apple Inc. of Cupertino Calif. the Blackberry operating system by Research In Motion RIM of Waterloo Ontario Canada the Palm operating system by Palm Inc. of Sunnyvale Calif. the Android operating system developed by the Open Handset Alliance the Windows Mobile operating system by Microsoft Corp. of Redmond Wash. or the Symbian operating system by Nokia Corp. of Espoo Finland.

As used herein processor and or processing module means any type of computational circuit such as but not limited to a microprocessor a microcontroller a controller a complex instruction set computing CISC microprocessor a reduced instruction set computing RISC microprocessor a very long instruction word VLIW microprocessor a graphics processor a digital signal processor or any other type of processor or processing circuit capable of performing the desired functions.

In the depicted embodiment of various I O devices such as disk controller graphics adapter video controller keyboard adapter mouse adapter network adapter and other I O devices can be coupled to system bus . Keyboard adapter and mouse adapter are coupled to keyboard and mouse respectively of computer system . While graphics adapter and video controller are indicated as distinct units in video controller can be integrated into graphics adapter or vice versa in other embodiments. Video controller is suitable for refreshing monitor to display images on a screen of computer system . Disk controller can control hard drive USB and CD ROM drive . In other embodiments distinct units can be used to control each of these devices separately.

In some embodiments network adapter can be part of a WNIC wireless network interface controller card not shown plugged or coupled to an expansion port not shown in computer system . In other embodiments the WNIC card can be a wireless network card built into computer system . A wireless network adapter can be built into computer system by having wireless Ethernet capabilities integrated into the motherboard chipset not shown or implemented via a dedicated wireless Ethernet chip not shown connected through the PCI peripheral component interconnector or a PCI express bus. In other embodiments network adapter can be a wired network adapter.

Although many other components of computer system are not shown such components and their interconnection are well known to those of ordinary skill in the art. Accordingly further details concerning the construction and composition of computer system and the circuit boards inside chassis are not discussed herein.

When computer system in is running program instructions stored on a USB equipped electronic device connected to USB on a CD ROM or DVD in CD ROM and or DVD drive on hard drive or in memory are executed by CPU . A portion of the program instructions stored on these devices can be suitable for carrying out at least part of system and or part or all of method method method method method method method method method and or method .

Although computer system is illustrated as a desktop computer in there can be examples where computer system can take a different form factor e.g. a mobile electronic device while still having functional elements similar to those described for computer system . In some embodiments computer system can comprise a single computer a single server or a cluster or collection of computers or servers or a cloud of computers or servers. Typically a cluster or collection of servers can be used when the demand on computer system exceeds the reasonable capability of a single server or computer.

Returning back to communication hub is also configured to communicate e.g. wired and or wireless communication with at least one audio visual device . Audio visual device can comprise any electronic visual display e.g. a television a monitor etc and or image projector. Audio visual device can also comprise at least one speaker. When audio visual device comprises at least one speaker the at least one speaker can be part of another audio visual device of the at least one audio visual device e.g. a television comprising the at least one speaker can be a stand alone device and or can be part of communication hub e.g. when communication hub comprises the at least one speaker . Communication hub can be configured to be mechanically and or electrically coupled with audio visual device . Accordingly when communication hub is in wired communication with audio visual device communication hub can be configured to be coupled to audio visual device by at least one audio visual cable e.g. a high definition multimedia interface HDMI cable a digital visual interface DVI cable a display port DP cable a video graphics array VGA cable composite cables a S Video cable an optical audio cable a universal serial bus USB cable Radio Corporation of America RCA cables a tip ring sleeve TRS cable such as a 3.5 millimeter TRS cable etc. . The at least one audio visual cable can be coupled to communication hub via digital video converter e.g. where the audio visual cable comprises the HDMI cable the DVI cable and or the DP cable via analog video converter e.g. where the audio visual cable comprises the VGA cable the composite cables the RCA cables and or the S Video cable and or via digital audio converter amplifier e.g. where the audio visual cable comprises the HDMI cable the optical audio cable the RCA cables and or the TRS cable . In other embodiments where communication hub comprises the at least one speaker the at least one speaker can also be coupled to digital audio converter amplifier .

Communication hub can be provided electricity directly e.g via an electrical coupling with an electrical receptacle and or via one or more energy storage devices such as one or more batteries and or indirectly e.g. via the coupling with audio visual device such as for example a Universal Serial Bus USB coupling . When communication hub is provided electricity via the electrical coupling with the electrical receptacle communication hub can comprise an electrical connector e.g. world wide voltage input configured to receive an electric cable by which to electrically couple communication hub to the electrical connector. provides an exemplary block diagram illustrating circuitry of communication hub according to the embodiment of . Circuitry of communication hub comprises power supply configured to provide electricity to communication hub and or circuitry via the electrical coupling with the electrical receptacle.

Turning now to communication hub can comprise processing component e.g. one or more processing modules wired wireless communication component power supply memory e.g. one or more memory storage modules interface circuitry interface circuitry and or interface circuitry including proprietary standard connectors . Processing component can be implemented as any suitable multi media processor such as for example Part No. BCM2763 available from Broadcom Corp of San Jose Calif. Wired wireless communication component can be implemented as any suitable Wi Fi wired communication module such as for example Part No. BRCM5358 wired and wireless also available from Broadcom Corp of San Jose Calif. Power supply can be implemented as any suitable power supply device. Memory can be implemented as any suitable memory device such as for example flash memory. Interface circuitry and can be implemented as any suitable interface circuitry. In some embodiments interface circuitry can be implemented as one or more of a USB device a Flash memory device a secured digital SD memory card and or the like.

In some embodiments processing component can comprise general purpose input output ports GPIOs and peripheral interface and power supply input . In the same or different embodiments wired wireless communication component can comprise GPIO which can be configured as a host interface power supply input wide area network WAN port which can be configured as an internet router local area network LAN port s which can be configured as an Ethernet switch e.g. a 4 port Ethernet switch radio frequency RF e.g. analog front end circuitry and antenna elements . Power supply can comprise alternating current A C power input and direct current D C power outputs .

In operation processing component receives electricity from power supply . In some embodiments power supply can convert electricity having alternating current as received from an electrical receptacle to electricity having direct current suitable to supply electricity to connection hub and or circuitry via D C power outputs . Processing component is in communication with memory . Memory includes stored code as well as user data. Memory receives requests from processing component and passes requested instruction code to processing component for execution. Processing component is in two way communication via GPIO with GPIO of wired wireless communication component . Communication component facilitates two way communication between processing component as a client and an existing network via an access point. Communication component also facilitates two way communication between processing component as a client and any number of multiple electronic devices that are attempting to become members of a connected users group as described below. In some embodiments communication component facilitates two way communication between processing component as a client and an existing network via an access point such as for example via WAN port . In other embodiments communication component also facilitates two way communication between processing component as a client and any number of multiple electronic devices that are attempting to become members of the connected users group such as for example via LAN port s and or RF front end circuitry and antenna elements .

Meanwhile interface circuitry comprises digital video converter analog video converter and or digital audio converter amplifier as described above. Accordingly in some embodiments interface circuitry can be configured to receive audio visual data comprising analog digital video data from any of multiple electronic devices can condition convert the analog digital video data and can pass the conditioned converted video data to audio visual device e.g. where audio visual device comprises the electronic visual display and or the image projector via the at least one audio visual cable e.g. the HDMI cable the DVI cable the DP cable the VGA cable the composite cables and or the S Video cable and or via wireless communication e.g. wired wireless communication component using integrated wireless access point wired network connection and or external wireless network connection . In the same or different embodiments interface circuitry can be configured to receive audio visual data comprising digital audio data from any of multiple electronic devices can condition convert the received audio data and can pass the conditioned converted audio data to one or more audio devices to audio visual device e.g. where audio visual device comprises the at least one speaker via the at least one audio visual cable e.g. the HDMI cable the optical audio cable the RCA cables and or the TRS cable and or via wireless communication e.g. wired wireless communication component using integrated wireless access point wired network connection and or external wireless network connection . For example digital video converter can receive digital video data from one electronic device e.g. the active electronic device as described below of multiple electronic devices can condition convert the received digital video data and can pass the conditioned converted digital video data to audio visual device via the at least one audio visual cable. In another example analog video converter can receive analog video data from one electronic device e.g. the active electronic device as described below of multiple electronic devices can condition convert the received analog video data and can pass the conditioned converted analog video data to audio visual device via the at least one audio visual cable. In yet another example digital audio converter can receive digital audio data from one electronic device e.g. the active electronic device as described below of multiple electronic devices can condition convert the received digital audio data e.g. converts to an IS data format and can pass the conditioned converted digital audio data to audio visual device via the at least one audio visual cable. As described above in these embodiments audio visual device can be part of connection hub another audio visual device or a stand alone device.

Next interface circuitry can be configured to facilitate communication between communication hub and external devices e.g. storage devices via one or more interface standards e.g. USB Secured Digital SD etc. for multiple functions such as for example providing external storage firmware updates system diagnostics and the like to connection hub and or circuitry . Meanwhile interface circuitry can be configured to facilitate communication between communication hub and user s from communication hub to user s . In these embodiments interface circuitry facilitates one way communication between communication hub and user s such as for example electric power status connection status e.g. link quality connected users group data e.g. identify the user of the active electronic device identify passive users etc. as described below and the like. In other embodiments interface circuitry can be configured to facilitate communication between connection hub and user s from the user s to communication hub . In these embodiments interface circuitry facilitates one way communication between user s and communication hub such as for example unit configuration active electronic device selection network connection authentication information and the like. In still other embodiments interface circuitry can be configured to facilitate two way communication between communication hub and user s such as for example the aforementioned one way communication listings pass code interaction i.e. provide unique identification when multiple communication hubs comprising communication hub are available additional control functionality i.e. assigning a new active electronic device and the like.

Returning again to in operation communication hub can be configured such that when communication hub is communicating with multiple electronic devices multiple electronic devices can comprise first electronic device operating as an active electronic device and at least one other electronic device . As described below illustrates an exemplary embodiment of method of pairing an electronic device with a communication hub. The active electronic device can be configured to control communication hub by providing command data e.g. computer instructions to communication hub . Meanwhile communication hub can be configured to receive audio visual data from the active electronic device when the active electronic device is controlling communication hub and or to provide the audio visual data to audio visual device when communication hub receives the audio visual data from the active electronic device. In some embodiments the active electronic device can be configured to provide the command data and or the audio visual data to communication hub in the same or different data channels and or the same or different data streams. Likewise communication hub can be configured to provide the audio visual data in the same or different data channels and or in the same or different data streams. For example the active electronic device can be configured to provide both the command data and the audio visual data to communication hub via integrated wireless access point . Accordingly the active electronic device can provide both the command data and the audio visual data to communication hub in the same wireless channel. However the active electronic device can provide the command data in a first data stream and can provide the audio visual data in a second data stream. Meanwhile communication hub can then provide the audio visual data to audio visual device also via integrated wireless access point . However communication hub can provide audio data of the audio visual data via a first data channel and video data of the audio visual data via a second data channel. Alternatively in the same example communication hub could provide both the audio data and the video data of the audio visual data to audio visual device via a single wired data channel e.g. the at least one audio visual cable in the same audio visual data stream or in separate audio visual data streams.

The active electronic device and the at least one other electronic device can form a connected users group that is maintained by communication hub when multiple electronic devices are paired e.g. in communication with communication hub . As described previously above the active electronic device can control communication hub e.g. can control communication hub providing the audio visual data to audio visual device . Meanwhile communication hub can be configured such that when the active electronic device is controlling communication hub the active electronic device can pass control of communication hub to any one other electronic device of at least one other electronic device . When the active electronic device passes control of communication hub to any other electronic device of at least one other electronic device the any other electronic device takes over operating as the active electronic device. As described below illustrate exemplary embodiments of method of passing control of a communication hub from one electronic device to another electronic device of multiple electronic devices. In various embodiments communication hub maintains periodic communication with each electronic device of multiple electronic devices while continuously communicating with the active electronic device of multiple electronic devices . Accordingly communication hub can determine whether certain electronic devices of multiple electronic devices have disconnected from communication hub and or the connected users group and or to determine if new electronic devices of multiple electronic devices have requested to join the connected users group. As described below illustrates an exemplary embodiment of method of adding a new electronic device of multiple electronic devices to a connected users group.

In various embodiments one electronic device of multiple electronic devices can be operating as a lead electronic device. The lead electronic device can be similar or identical to the active electronic device but can be further configured to override the active electronic device and or to take over operation as the active electronic device. When the lead electronic device takes over as the active electronic device the lead electronic device can operate as the active electronic device until another electronic device of multiple electronic devices is designated e.g. by the lead electronic device to be the active electronic device. In this manner the lead electronic device can select a new active electronic device as described below with respect to . In many embodiments when the lead electronic device assigns the new active electronic device the lead electronic device can still remain operating as the lead electronic device. Further the lead electronic device can also provide a pass code required to be provided by any of the other electronic devices of multiple electronic devices in order to a pair with communication hub and or b determine an allowed user list on which each of multiple electronic devices can need to be listed in order to be paired with communication hub each of which is described in further detail below with respect to . Implementing system with a lead electronic device can permit enhanced privacy and or confidentiality by providing security to system . System can also and or additionally be secured in any other suitable and or conventional manner by which to secure electronic communications.

In some embodiments the first electronic device e.g. first electronic device of multiple electronic devices to pair with communication hub can become the initial active electronic device and or the lead electronic device. In other embodiments communication hub and or the lead electronic device can determine which electronic device of multiple electronic devices to assign as the active electronic device based on a pre populated priority user list e.g. an electronic device of multiple electronic devices ranked highest on the pre populated priority user list . In the same or different embodiments the lead electronic device can designate for communication hub which electronic device of multiple electronic devices to assign as the active electronic device such as where the lead electronic device established the pre populated priority user list. As described below illustrate exemplary embodiments of method of assigning an active electronic device of multiple electronic devices.

Audio visual device can be configured to present the audio visual data e.g. to user s of communication hub when audio visual device receives the audio visual data from communication hub that is provided to communication hub by the active electronic device. When user s are finished using system user s can terminate their session with communication hub . When each of user s terminate the session with communication hub the session can end. Meanwhile as described below illustrates another exemplary embodiment of method of terminating a session with a communication hub where system is being implemented with one of the electronic devices of multiple electronic devices operating as a lead electronic device as described above. In these embodiments the lead electronic device can determine when the session with communication hub terminates.

Turning back to earlier drawings illustrates a flow chart for an exemplary embodiment of method of starting up a system configured to permit presentation of audio visual data from multiple electronic devices. Method is merely exemplary and is not limited to the embodiments presented herein. Method can be employed in many different embodiments or examples not specifically depicted or described herein. In some embodiments the procedures the processes and or the activities of method can be performed in the order presented. In other embodiments the procedures the processes and or the activities of the method can be performed in any other suitable order. In still other embodiments one or more of the procedures the processes and or the activities in method can be combined or skipped. The system can be similar or identical to system and or the multiple electronic devices can be similar or identical to multiple electronic devices .

Method can comprise procedure of receiving electricity at a communication hub. The communication hub can be similar or identical to communication hub . Method can continue with procedure of initializing hardware e.g. circuitry circuitry etc. of the communication hub procedure of expanding a runtime operating system OS of the communication hub into random access memory RAM of the communication hub if applicable and procedure of starting the OS. In some embodiments procedures and can be implemented as a boot loader functionality.

Method can comprise procedure of determining whether the communication hub has Ethernet network connectivity. Method can also comprise procedure of determining whether the communication hub has wireless network connectivity. Procedure can be performed and or can occur before procedure or vice versa. If after performing procedure and or procedure Ethernet network connectivity and or wireless network connectivity is located then method can comprise procedure of requesting an internet protocol IP address and or procedure of registering the communication hub with a services gateway. Performing procedure can permit the multiple electronic devices to communicate with the communication hub via the wireless network connection and or a virtual private network VPN connection according to method as described below. If procedure and procedure do not locate Ethernet network connectivity and or wireless network connectivity procedure and procedure can be omitted. Procedures and can be performed and or can occur after procedure and or .

Next method can comprise procedure of initiating video output determination e.g. auto sensing procedure of initializing video output for a determined connection type and or procedure of activating an internal audio path. Procedures and or can be performed and or can occur after procedures and or .

Turning to the next figure illustrates a flow chart for an exemplary embodiment of method of pairing an electronic device with a communication hub. Method is merely exemplary and is not limited to the embodiments presented herein. Method can be employed in many different embodiments or examples not specifically depicted or described herein. In some embodiments the procedures the processes and or the activities of method can be performed in the order presented. In other embodiments the procedures the processes and or the activities of the method can be performed in any other suitable order. In still other embodiments one or more of the procedures the processes and or the activities in method can be combined or skipped. The electronic device can be similar or identical to any electronic device of multiple electronic devices and or the communication hub can be similar or identical to communication hub .

Method can comprise procedure of determining whether a communication hub has Ethernet network connectivity and or procedure of determining whether the communication hub has wireless network connectivity. Procedure can be similar or identical to procedure and or procedure can be similar or identical to procedure .

If after performing procedure and or procedure Ethernet network connectivity and or wireless network connectivity is not located then method can comprise procedure of turning on a wireless access point of the communication hub. The wireless access point can be similar or identical to integrated wireless access point . In the same or different embodiments method can comprise procedure of determining if another wireless network connection is available procedure of finding an access point of the another wireless network connection procedure of establishing a connection between the communication hub and the access point of the other wireless network connection procedure of contacting a hardwired address and or procedure of determining if the communication hub receives communication e.g. via the other wireless network connection after contacting the hardwired address. If after performing procedure the communication hub receives the communication after contacting the hardwired address method can continue with procedure of turning off the wireless access point of the communication hub. If after performing procedure the communication hub does not receive the communication after contacting the hardwired address method can continue with procedure of reconfiguring the wireless access point of the communication hub and or procedure of broadcasting a service set identifier SSID . In some embodiments the wireless access point can be provided and or the SSID can be broadcasted via wireless antenna s .

In some embodiments if after performing procedure and or procedure Ethernet network connectivity and or wireless network connectivity is not located procedures and can be performed and communication hub can be implemented according to as shown in and or as applicable.

Method can comprise procedure of initializing an internal server of the communication hub procedure of initializing an internal remote access service of the communication hub procedure of offering the internal remote access service and or procedure of initializing at least one internal hardwired port of the communication hub e.g. four internal hardwired ports of the communication hub . Procedure can comprise a process of establishing logical connection between the services detailed in procedures and or with the internal hardwired port s of procedure . Each of the internal hardwired port s can be similar or identical to any port of LAN port s . Procedures and can be performed after procedures and locate Ethernet and or wireless network connectivity after procedure and or after procedure .

Turning again to the next figure illustrates a flow chart for an exemplary embodiment of method of assigning an active electronic device of multiple electronic devices. Method is merely exemplary and is not limited to the embodiments presented herein. Method can be employed in many different embodiments or examples not specifically depicted or described herein. In some embodiments the procedures the processes and or the activities of method can be performed in the order presented. In other embodiments the procedures the processes and or the activities of the method can be performed in any other suitable order. In still other embodiments one or more of the procedures the processes and or the activities in method can be combined or skipped. The active electronic device can be similar or identical to the active electronic device described above with respect to system . The multiple electronic devices can be similar or identical to multiple electronic devices .

Method can comprise procedure of receiving a request to pair the active electronic device to a communication hub and pairing the active electronic device with the communication hub. The communication hub can be similar or identical to communication hub . Meanwhile after procedure method can continue with procedure of receiving a request that a session be initialized and opened from the active electronic device. Method can comprise procedure of establishing a remote access service connection procedure of turning on audio visual data paths procedure of connecting audio visual data of the active electronic device to the audio visual data paths and or procedure of initializing a connected users group or a list of users. The connected users group can be similar or identical to the connected users group described above with respect to system . Procedure and procedure can comprise receiving the audio visual data at interface circuitry of the communication hub The interface circuitry can be similar or identical to interface circuitry . Procedure can comprise a process of adding the active electronic device to the top of the connected users group.

In various embodiments and as illustrated in method can be implemented without security. As a result in these embodiments any electronic device can join the connected users group and or pair with the communication hub. While this implementation can permit for easy setup and administration it can also limit privacy and therefore confidentiality. Accordingly in other embodiments and as illustrated in method can also be implemented with security.

Turning now to when method is securely implemented method can still comprise one or more of procedures and or . Meanwhile in various embodiments method can also comprise procedure of establishing an electronic device as a lead electronic device. Performing procedure can be similar to performing procedure but for the lead electronic device. When the lead electronic device is the active electronic device as described below procedure and procedure can be implemented as the same procedure instead of separate procedures. In some embodiments procedure can be performed simultaneously with or after procedure and or before procedure . In many embodiments the lead electronic device is statically assigned as opposed to the active electronic device which is dynamically assigned. The initial active electronic device assigned according to procedure can also be the lead electronic device. In other embodiments the lead electronic device can be any other electronic device and in further embodiments can never operate as the active electronic device at any point during the session requested according to procedure .

The lead electronic device can be similar or identical to the active electronic device with the added functionality of being able to override the active electronic device where the lead electronic device and the active electronic device are not one and the same. As a result the lead electronic device has ultimate and or independent control over the communication hub and or any sessions requested according to procedure thereby securely implementing method .

When being securely implemented method can further comprise procedure after procedure . Procedure can include requesting whether the lead electronic device wants to establish a pass code and or an allowed user list. If the lead electronic device wants to establish the pass code method can comprise optional procedure of establishing the pass code where the pass code is required to be provided in order to pair any electronic device with the communication hub. In these embodiments the lead electronic device can provide the pass code and procedure can comprise a process of receiving the pass code from the lead electronic device. In the same or different embodiments if the lead electronic device wants to establish the allowed user list method can also comprise optional procedure of establishing the allowed electronic device list e.g. a list of those devices that can join the connected users group and pair with the communication hub . In these embodiments the lead electronic device can provide the allowed electronic device list and procedure can comprise a process of receiving the allowed electronic device list from the lead electronic device. When method comprises procedure additional electronic devices can provide the pass code to pair with the communication hub. When method comprises procedure additional electronic devices can be required to be listed in the allowed electronic device list to pair with the communication hub. Performing procedure and or procedure can provide additional security to method . Method can also be further secured according to any of various other suitable and or conventional approaches for securing electrical communication.

Turning back in the drawings illustrates a flow chart for an exemplary embodiment of method of adding a new electronic device of multiple electronic devices to a connected users group. Method is merely exemplary and is not limited to the embodiments presented herein. Method can be employed in many different embodiments or examples not specifically depicted or described herein. In some embodiments the procedures the processes and or the activities of method can be performed in the order presented. In other embodiments the procedures the processes and or the activities of the method can be performed in any other suitable order. In still other embodiments one or more of the procedures the processes and or the activities in method can be combined or skipped. The multiple electronic devices and or the new electronic devices can be similar or identical to multiple electronic devices . The connected users group can be similar or identical to the connected users group described above with respect to system .

Referring now to method can comprise procedure of receiving a request to pair the new electronic device of the multiple electronic devices with a communication hub. The communication hub can be similar or identical to communication hub .

Method also can comprise procedure of adding the new electronic device of the multiple electronic devices to the connected users group.

Referring again to after procedure method can continue with optional procedure of requesting authorization from a lead electronic device of the multiple electronic devices to pair the new electronic device of the multiple electronic devices with the communication hub. The lead electronic device can be similar or identical to the lead electronic device described above with respect to system . After procedure method can alternatively continue with optional procedure of providing a pass code request to the new electronic device for verification e.g. where procedure has been performed and or optional procedure of comparing a user identification of the new electronic device against allowed user identifications of an allowed electronic device list e.g. where procedure has been performed . Accordingly procedure can comprise a process of receiving the pass code from the new electronic device and or procedure can comprise a process of recognizing the user identification of the new electronic device as an allowed user identification of the allowed electronic device list. With respect to procedure if the active electronic device approves the new electronic device the new electronic device is affirmed and permitted to pair with communication hub . If the active electronic device does not approve the new electronic device the new electronic device is not permitted to pair with communication hub . With respect to procedure if the active electronic device provides the correct pass code the new electronic device is affirmed and permitted to pair with communication hub . If the active electronic device does not approve the new electronic device the new electronic device is not permitted to pair with communication hub . With respect to procedure if the new electronic device is on the allowed electronic device list the new electronic device is affirmed and permitted to pair with communication hub . If the active electronic device is not on the allowed electronic device list the new electronic device is not permitted to pair with communication hub . Where method comprises one or more of procedures and or procedure can be performed after procedures and or as applicable. Also method can comprise procedures and or where method has been implemented with security. If method has been implemented without security procedures and or can be omitted as applicable.

In some embodiments method can conclude with procedure of pairing the new electronic device with the communication hub.

Turning ahead in the figures illustrates a flow chart for an exemplary embodiment of method of passing control of a communication hub from one electronic device to another electronic device of multiple electronic devices. Method is merely exemplary and is not limited to the embodiments presented herein. Method can be employed in many different embodiments or examples not specifically depicted or described herein. In some embodiments the procedures the processes and or the activities of method can be performed in the order presented. In other embodiments the procedures the processes and or the activities of the method can be performed in any other suitable order. In still other embodiments one or more of the procedures the processes and or the activities in method can be combined or skipped. The communication hub can be similar or identical to communication hub . The multiple electronic devices can be similar or identical to multiple electronic devices . The one electronic device can comprise an active electronic device. The active electronic device can be similar or identical to the active electronic device described above with respect to system .

Method can comprise procedure of revoking control of the communication hub from a present active electronic device. Procedure can comprise a process of identifying another electronic device to become a new active electronic device. In some embodiments identifying another electronic device to become the new active electronic device can comprise receiving a designation of another electronic device to become the new active electronic device from the present active electronic device e.g. the first electronic device and or a lead electronic device . In other embodiments identifying another electronic device to become the new active electronic device can comprise designating a lead electronic device as the other electronic device to become the new active electronic device as described in further detail below. In these embodiments the lead electronic device can be a different electronic device than the active electronic device as is also described in further detail below. The lead electronic device can be similar or identical to the lead electronic device described above with respect to system . Procedure can also comprise a process of causing the present active electronic device e.g. the first electronic device to discontinue providing audio visual data and or command data to the communication hub.

After procedure method can continue with procedure of providing control of the communication hub to another electronic device e.g. the second electronic device and or the lead electronic device as determined by the present active electronic device and or the lead electronic device as applicable . Procedure can also comprise a process of causing the other electronic device e.g. the second electronic device and or the lead electronic device to begin providing audio visual data and or command data to the communication hub. Method can comprise procedure of assigning the other electronic device to operate as the active electronic device. If necessary procedure can also comprise a process of updating the connected user group and or the allowed user list.

In a similar manner to that of method and as illustrated in in various embodiments method can be implemented without security. Also as equivalently illustrated in in other embodiments method can also be implemented with security such as where method has previously been implemented with security. Where method is implemented with security there can presently be a lead electronic device and the lead electronic device can be a different electronic device than the active electronic device. In these embodiments method can still comprise one or more of procedures and or and can further comprise optional procedure of receiving an instruction from the lead electronic device to override the designation of another electronic device to become the new active electronic device where the present active electronic device provided the designation of the other electronic device. Performing procedure does not necessarily require that the present active electronic device actually designate the other electronic device. Indeed procedure can be performed at any time to cause the lead electronic device to become the active electronic device even where the lead electronic device is not actively blocking the designation of the other electronic device. Accordingly where method comprises procedure the process of identifying another electronic device of which procedure is comprised can comprise designating the lead electronic device as the other electronic device to become the new active electronic device as described above.

Referencing after performing procedure method can be repeated starting at procedure for any other electronic devices of the multiple electronic devices. Where method is implemented with security and comprises procedure method can simply be repeated in the manner illustrated in as the lead electronic device would then be operating as both the lead electronic device and the active electronic device such that there would no longer be a different electronic device e.g. operating as the lead electronic device from which to receive an override of the other electronic device identified to become the new active electronic device. Although method would then be performed in accordance with method would still be considered to be implemented with security in such an example.

Turning to another one of the drawings illustrates a flow chart for an exemplary embodiment of method of terminating a session with a communication hub. Method is merely exemplary and is not limited to the embodiments presented herein. Method can be employed in many different embodiments or examples not specifically depicted or described herein. In some embodiments the procedures the processes and or the activities of method can be performed in the order presented. In other embodiments the procedures the processes and or the activities of method can be performed in any other suitable order. In still other embodiments one or more of the procedures the processes and or the activities in method can be combined or skipped. Method can be performed where methods and or are implemented with security. Specifically method can be performed where one electronic device of multiple electronic devices in communication with the communication hub is operating as a lead electronic device. The multiple electronic devices can be similar or identical to multiple electronic devices and or the lead electronic device can be similar or identical to the lead electronic device described above with respect to system . In other embodiments where methods and or are implemented without security and or where none of the multiple electronic devices is operating as the lead electronic device the session with the communication hub can simply terminate when all of the multiple electronic devices are disconnected from the communication hub.

Referring now to method can comprise procedure of disconnecting from the communication hub each electronic device of multiple electronic devices other than a first electronic device operating as a lead electronic device. Procedure can comprise a process of removing each electronic device of the multiple electronic devices other than the first electronic device operating as the lead electronic device from a connected users group.

After procedure method can comprise an optional procedure not shown of passing control of the communication hub to the first device operating as the lead electronic device.

Also after procedure method can comprise procedure of requesting of the first electronic device operating as the lead electronic device if a new session should be started with the communication hub. If the lead electronic device requests to start the new session method can comprise procedure . Performing procedure can be similar or identical to performing method . For example procedure can comprise assigning one electronic device of other multiple electronic devices to operate as an active electronic device. The other multiple electronic devices can be the same electronic devices as the previous electronic devices and or the other multiple electronic devices can comprise more less or different electronic devices than the previous electronic devices. In any event like the previous multiple electronic devices the other multiple electronic devices can continue to comprise the first electronic device. If the lead electronic device requests not to start the new session method can comprise procedure . Procedure can comprise disconnecting the first electronic device operating as the lead electronic device from the communication hub. Method can also continue with procedure of purging all internal cache from a previous session of the communication hub. Method can then comprise procedure of waiting e.g. in standby mode for one of a a user of the communication hub to deactivate the communication hub or b a request from another electronic device to start the new session.

Skipping ahead in the drawings illustrates a flow chart for an exemplary embodiment of method of using a software application at an electronic device of multiple electronic devices to permit communication between the electronic device and a communication hub. Method is merely exemplary and is not limited to the embodiments presented herein. Method can be employed in many different embodiments or examples not specifically depicted or described herein. In some embodiments the procedures the processes and or the activities of method can be performed in the order presented. In other embodiments the procedures the processes and or the activities of method can be performed in any other suitable order. In still other embodiments one or more of the procedures the processes and or the activities in method can be combined or skipped. The multiple electronic devices can be similar or identical to multiple electronic devices . The communication hub can be similar or identical to communication hub .

In using system user s can perform part or all of method upon entering a conference room. For example user s can launch the software application on their respective electronic device s of multiple electronic devices upon entering a conference room. The software application can then initiate a scan to find communication hub . In some embodiments there can be a pairing mechanism e.g. the software application can ask user s to enter a code that user s can be required to provide to pair with communication hub . The code can be permanently or temporarily displayed on communication hub e.g. via a sticker or an electronic display .

Communication hub can assign e.g. originally as the active electronic device the first electronic device e.g. first electronic device of multiple electronic devices to pair with the communication hub and or can assign the active electronic device according to a user list as described above with respect to system . Accordingly the software application can permit a first user of user s operating the active electronic device to enter a name. The communication hub can then receive audio visual data from the active electronic device and provide the audio visual data to at least one audio visual device. The audio visual device can be similar or identical to audio visual device .

When another electronic device e.g. electronic device pairs with communication hub using method it becomes a passive electronic device. Each passive electronic device can be assigned an icon having the passive electronic device s name and the icon can be displayed in the software application running on the active electronic device. The active electronic device can select any passive electronic device and tap on the icon. Tapping the icon can initiate method to pass control of communication hub to the selected passive electronic device.

When user s are finished using system user s can disconnect from communication hub by closing the software application e.g. initiating method . When the active electronic device closes the software application the next passive electronic device can become the active electronic device.

In method can comprise process of starting the process by downloading the software application. If the electronic device already has the software application process can be omitted.

Method can continue with procedure of calling a proprietary or third party network configuration API such as for example a zero configuration networking service e.g. Bonjour to locate and identify the communication hub s . If the communication hub s are not located and identified method can comprise procedure of continuing to locate and identify the communication hub s . If the communication hubs are located and identified method comprises procedure of calling the communication hub s application programming interface and initiating communication with the communication hub.

After procedure method can comprise procedure of administrating communication between the communication hub and the software application and assigning the first electronic device either active electronic device status or passive electronic device status. The active electronic device can be similar or identical to the active electronic device described above with respect to system .

Next method can comprise procedure of determining a user status of the first electronic device as either active electronic device status or passive electronic device status. In some embodiments procedure can be part of procedure . If the user status is determined to be passive electronic device status method can comprise procedure of waiting for the communication hub to assign the electronic device with active electronic device status. If the user status is determined to be active electronic device status method can comprise procedure of packetizing and sending audio visual data to the communication hub via the communication hub application programming interface.

After procedure method can comprise procedure of determining if the electronic device has released its active electronic device status. If active electronic device status has not been released procedure can be repeated. If active electronic device status has been released method can comprise procedure of notifying the communication hub that the first electronic device is no longer the active electronic device.

Method can comprise procedure of assigning active electronic device status to another electronic device of the multiple electronic devices. In many embodiments procedure can be performed after procedure is performed and or occurs.

Skipping ahead in the drawings illustrates a flow chart for an exemplary embodiment of method of manufacturing a communication hub. Method is merely exemplary and is not limited to the embodiments presented herein. Method can be employed in many different embodiments or examples not specifically depicted or described herein. In some embodiments the procedures the processes and or the activities of method can be performed in the order presented. In other embodiments the procedures the processes and or the activities of method can be performed in any other suitable order. In still other embodiments one or more of the procedures the processes and or the activities in method can be combined or skipped. The communication hub can be similar or identical to communication hub .

Method can comprise activity of configuring the communication hub to communicate with and to be paired with multiple electronic devices. The multiple electronic devices can be similar or identical to multiple electronic devices .

Method can comprise activity of configuring the communication hub to communicate with at least one audio visual device. The audio visual device s can be similar to audio visual device s .

Method can comprise activity of configuring the communication hub to receive audio visual data from any one electronic device of the multiple electronic devices when the electronic device is operating as an active electronic device of the multiple electronic devices. The active electronic device can be similar or identical to the active electronic device described above with respect to system .

Method can comprise activity of configuring the communication hub to provide the audio visual data to the audio visual device. In many embodiments one or more of activities through can be performed approximately simultaneously with each other. In other embodiments one or more of activities through can be performed in a different order with one or more other of activities through .

Turning to the next drawing illustrates a flow chart for an exemplary embodiment of method of manufacturing a communication hub software application to be used at an electronic device. Method is merely exemplary and is not limited to the embodiments presented herein. Method can be employed in many different embodiments or examples not specifically depicted or described herein. In some embodiments the procedures the processes and or the activities of method can be performed in the order presented. In other embodiments the procedures the processes and or the activities of method can be performed in any other suitable order. In still other embodiments one or more of the procedures the processes and or the activities in method can be combined or skipped. The communication hub application software can be similar or identical to the communication hub application software described above with respect to system . Further the communication hub application software can be executed at one or more processing modules and or stored at one or more memory storage modules of an electronic device computer system. The electronic device computer system can be similar or identical to computer system .

Method can comprise activity of configuring the communication hub application software to permit the electronic device to be paired with a communication hub when the electronic device is communicating with the communication hub. The communication hub can be similar or identical to communication hub . Accordingly the communication hub is configured to communicate with multiple electronic devices and at least one audio visual device. The multiple electronic devices can be similar or identical to multiple electronic devices and the audio visual device s can be similar or identical to audio visual device s . The multiple electronic devices can comprise the electronic device.

Further method can comprise activity of configuring the communication hub application software to permit the electronic device to operate as an active electronic device of the multiple electronic devices. The active electronic device can be similar or identical to the active electronic device described above with respect to system .

Turning again to the next drawing illustrates a flow chart for an exemplary embodiment of method of operating a communication hub. Method is merely exemplary and is not limited to the embodiments presented herein. Method can be employed in many different embodiments or examples not specifically depicted or described herein. In some embodiments the procedures the processes and or the activities of method can be performed in the order presented. In other embodiments the procedures the processes and or the activities of method can be performed in any other suitable order. In still other embodiments one or more of the procedures the processes and or the activities in method can be combined or skipped. The communication hub can be similar or identical to communication hub . At least part of method can be implemented via execution of computer instructions configured to run at one or more processing modules and configured to be stored at one or more memory storage modules of the communication hub. The processing module s can be similar or identical to processor and the memory storage module s can be similar or identical to memory .

Method can comprise activity of establishing communication of the communication hub with at least one audio visual device. The audio visual device s can be similar or identical to audio visual devices 

Method can comprise activity of establishing communication of the communication hub with and pairing the communication hub with multiple electronic devices. The multiple electronic devices can be similar or identical to multiple electronic devices . In some embodiments activity can comprise communicating with one or more electronic devices of the multiple electronic devices via an integrated wireless access point. In these embodiments activity can comprise a communicating with one or more electronic devices of the multiple electronic devices via an integrated wireless access point of the communication hub and or b 1 tethering the communication hub with a tethered electronic device of the multiple electronic devices such that the tethered electronic device operates as the integrated wireless access point and 2 communicating with one or more electronic devices of the multiple electronic devices via the tethered electronic device of the multiple electronic devices. Further activity can comprise communicating with one or more electronic devices of the multiple electronic devices via at least one of a wired network connection or an external wireless access point. The internal wireless access point the wired network connection and or the external wireless access point can be similar or identical to the internal wireless access point the wired network connection and or the external wireless access point described above with respect to system .

Method can comprise activity of assigning an active electronic device status to a first electronic device of the multiple electronic devices. In some embodiments activity can be performed during or after activity . In many embodiments the active electronic device status can be similar or identical to the status of the active electronic device described above with respect to system .

Method can comprise activity of receiving first audio visual data from the first electronic device when the first electronic device is operating with the active electronic device status.

Method can comprise activity of providing the first audio visual data to the at least one audio visual device. In some embodiments activity can be performed during or after activity and or activity . For example in some embodiments activity and activity can occur approximately simultaneously with each other.

Method can comprise activity of receiving requests at an application program interface of the communication hub from a communication hub software application of each electronic device of the multiple electronic devices to initiate communication with and pair with the communication hub. In some embodiments activity can occur before one or more of activities through .

Method can comprise activity of receiving first control data from the first electronic device when the first electronic device is operating with the active electronic device status. In some embodiments activity can occur approximately simultaneously with activity and or activity .

Method can comprise activity of assigning a lead electronic device status to a lead electronic device of the multiple electronic devices. The lead electronic device can be similar or identical to the lead electronic device described above with respect to system . In some embodiments activity can occur before or during one or more of activities through and or .

Method can comprise activity of receiving a request from the first electronic to assign the active electronic device status to another electronic device of the multiple electronic devices. Further method can comprise activity of assigning the active electronic device status to the other electronic device of the multiple electronic devices. Accordingly activity and or activity can occur during or after one or more of activities through . Further still activity and activity can occur approximately simultaneously with each other.

Although the invention has been described with reference to specific embodiments it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes can be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the invention. Accordingly the disclosure of embodiments of the invention is intended to be illustrative of the scope of the invention and is not intended to be limiting. It is intended that the scope of the invention shall be limited only to the extent required by the appended claims. For example to one of ordinary skill in the art it will be readily apparent that procedures and or of procedures and or of procedures and or of procedures and or of procedures and or of procedures and or of procedure of procedures and or of procedures and or of activities of activities and of and or activities of can be comprised of many different procedures processes and activities and be performed by many different modules in many different orders that any element of can be modified and that the foregoing discussion of certain of these embodiments does not necessarily represent a complete description of all possible embodiments.

All elements claimed in any particular claim are essential to the embodiment claimed in that particular claim. Consequently replacement of one or more claimed elements constitutes reconstruction and not repair. Additionally benefits other advantages and solutions to problems have been described with regard to specific embodiments. The benefits advantages solutions to problems and any element or elements that can cause any benefit advantage or solution to occur or become more pronounced however are not to be construed as critical required or essential features or elements of any or all of the claims unless such benefits advantages solutions or elements are expressly stated in such claim.

Moreover embodiments and limitations disclosed herein are not dedicated to the public under the doctrine of dedication if the embodiments and or limitations 1 are not expressly claimed in the claims and 2 are or are potentially equivalents of express elements and or limitations in the claims under the doctrine of equivalents.

