---

title: Universal tie down assembly
abstract: A universal tie down assembly includes first and second longitudinal belts comprising reinforced webbing made from a flexible fabric material. Each belt includes a buckle end and an anchor end. The anchor end is a loop of the reinforced webbing. At least one longitudinal slot is woven into an edge of at least one of the belts. The length of the slot is at least as great as the width of the belts. The assembly includes a novel open under load buckle having a receiving part (female part) and an insertion part (male part). The buckle end of one of the belts is adjustably disposed in a belt opening of one of the insertion part and the receiving part and the buckle end of the other of the belts forms a sewn loop that loops through a belt opening of the other of the insertion part and the receiving part.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08572815&OS=08572815&RS=08572815
owner: The United States of America as Represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 08572815
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120911
---
The present application claims the benefit of priority of U.S. provisional patent application Ser. No. 61 585 759 filed on Jan. 12 2012 which is incorporated by reference herein.

The invention described herein may be manufactured used and licensed by or for the United States Government.

The invention relates in general to tie downs for attaching and securing equipment and in particular to tie downs for attaching and securing equipment to the interior or exterior of vehicles.

Various tie downs are known for securing equipment to the interior or exterior of a vehicle. Some tie down methods use cargo webbing with ratcheting buckles netting and elastic cord bungee cord . The known tie downs vary in safety adaptability to different vehicles and ease of use. In some environments stowage of equipment and gear is a critical issue because the available space is very limited. Furthermore failure of the tie down can result in property damage injury or death. A particularly harsh environment is a military theater of operations. Storage space particularly interior storage space is at a premium in armored vehicles that transport personnel and or cargo. In addition the armored vehicle may be subject to extreme shocks such as shocks from substandard roads hostile fire and rollovers caused by explosive devices such as improvised explosive devices IEDs . In such a harsh environment the reliability of the tie downs and ease of use of the tie downs in cramped areas are critical factors.

Some buckles used with tie downs may be opened only when the buckle is not under load. A buckle that is designed to not open under load is described in U.S. Patent Application Publication 2010 0071173 published on Mar. 25 2010 in the name of Hortnagl. The entire contents of U.S. Patent Application Publication 2010 0071173 are expressly incorporated by reference herein. When buckles are used as part of a support for a human being it is very important that the buckles not open under load. Otherwise serious injury or death of the human may occur. On the other hand in some cargo securing applications it may be desirable to use a buckle that will open under load for example to save time in an emergency situation.

A need exists for a tie down that is safe reliable easy to use readily adaptable to various configurations and that includes an open under load buckle.

One aspect of the invention is a universal tie down assembly including first and second longitudinal belts. The belts are reinforced webbing made from a flexible fabric material. Each belt has a buckle end and an anchor end. Each anchor end is a loop of the reinforced webbing. At least one longitudinal slot is woven into an edge of at least one of the first and second belts. The length of the slot is at least as great as the width of the belts. The assembly includes an open under load buckle.

The open under load buckle has an insertion part and a receiving part. The insertion part has a central longitudinal axis at least one belt opening for guiding a belt and an insertion appendage extending in a direction of insertion with holding catches protruding from both sides of the insertion appendage in a direction perpendicular to the direction of insertion.

The receiving part has at least one belt opening for guiding a belt and a basic body. The basic body includes an insertion opening for receiving the insertion appendage of the insertion part. Latches are pivotally mounted to the basic body. In a locking position with the insertion part inserted in the receiving part the latches cooperate with the holding catches of the insertion appendage and retain the insertion appendage in the insertion opening of the receiving part.

The insertion opening begins at the inserting side of the basic body and forms a penetrating opening into the basic body to the belt opening. Guiding surfaces in the basic body for the two holding catches of the insertion appendage point to two edge surfaces in the perpendicular direction which limit the penetrating opening of the basic body at both sides in the perpendicular direction in an area where the penetrating opening opens into the belt opening.

Each holding catch includes a surface for engaging a respective one of the latches. This surface includes a planar portion that extends from a portion of the holding catch most distant from the central longitudinal axis inwardly towards the central longitudinal axis. The planar portion forms an acute angle with the central longitudinal axis. The acute angle is in a range of 55 to 62 degrees. The surface also includes a rounded portion that connects the planar portion with a side of the insertion appendage.

The buckle end of one of the belts is adjustably disposed in a belt opening of one of the insertion part and the receiving part and the buckle end of the other of the belts forms a sewn loop that loops through the a belt opening of the other of the insertion part and the receiving part.

The at least one longitudinal slot may include a plurality of longitudinal slots woven into the edge of at least one of the first and second belts.

A locking carabiner may be included at each anchor end loop. The anchor end loops may be looped through the locking carabiners. Anchors may be provided at each anchor end loop with the locking carabiners being looped through the anchors.

Another aspect of the invention is a method of anchoring the universal tie down assembly. The method includes looping the anchor end of one of the first and second belts around a support member and then guiding the anchor end through the plurality of longitudinal slots in the belt.

The invention will be better understood and further objects features and advantages of the invention will become more apparent from the following description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.

U.S. Patent Application Publication 2010 0071173 discloses a buckle that does not open under load. As shown in the buckle of U.S. Patent Application Publication 2010 0071173 includes a receiving part female buckle part and an insertion part male buckle part that interlock with each other in the inserted state. The receiving part and the insertion part are each provided with at least one belt opening for guiding belts that are connected with the receiving part and or the insertion part . The belts are indicated by dot dash lines in . In the exemplary embodiment shown the receiving part has only one belt opening to connect a belt in a fixed manner to the receiving part by guiding it through the belt opening and sewing it while the insertion part has two belt openings located at both sides of a displaceable central bar in order to connect a belt to the insertion part in an adjustable fashion. The end of the belt is pulled in a known manner from the rear lateral surface of the insertion part through the belt opening over the central bar and further through the belt opening .

In contrast to both the receiving part as well as the insertion part may be provided with one belt opening only for a fixed mounting of an end of the belt or both the insertion part as well as the receiving part may include several belt openings for an adjustable connection to a belt. The inverse arrangements is also possible with one end of the belt being connected to the receiving part in an adjustable fashion and one end of the belt to the insertion part in a fixed manner.

The belts connected to the receiving part and the insertion part may also represent separate belts or the two ends of a single belt.

The insertion part has a primary plane . The frontal and the rear lateral surfaces are located parallel in reference to the primary plane and or have sections positioned parallel in reference to the primary plane . The receiving part has a primary plane . The frontal and the rear lateral surface of the receiving part are located parallel in reference to the primary plane and or have sections positioned parallel in reference to the primary plane .

In the inserted state of the receiving part and the insertion part the primary planes of the insertion part and the receiving part are positioned in and or define a common plane.

Beginning at one of the sections of the insertion part forming the belt openings an insertion appendage of the insertion part extends in a direction of insertion . In the area of a free end frontal in reference to the direction of insertion the insertion appendage has holding catches which are arranged at both sides at the insertion appendage . The holding catches each project in a perpendicular direction aligned at a right angle in reference to the direction of insertion and parallel in reference to the primary plane . The perpendicular direction is the direction in which the belt openings determine the maximum width of the belt.

The receiving part has a basic body in which the belt opening is embodied. The basic body is further provided with an insertion opening in which the insertion appendage of the insertion part is inserted in the direction of insertion when the two parts of the buckle are connected to each other. The insertion opening begins at the inserting side of the receiving part which is the narrow side of the receiving part facing the insertion part to be inserted. The insertion opening is embodied as a penetrating opening penetrating the basic body to the belt opening i.e. it opens on the one hand at the inserting side of the basic body and on the other side into the belt opening with a window being formed in the limiting surface of the belt opening cf. particularly . Measured in the perpendicular direction the width of this window is narrower i.e. less than half the size than the width of the belt opening measured in the perpendicular direction. In other words the basic body of the receiving part has a channel which on the one side opens at the inserting side and forms the insertion opening and on the other side opens in the belt opening and here forms a window which is embodied in the limiting surface of the belt opening limiting the belt opening at the side facing the inserting side .

First and second latches are pivotally mounted to the basic body of the receiving part . The pivoting axes are aligned at a right angle in reference to the direction of insertion and at a right angle in reference to the perpendicular direction thus they are positioned at a right angle in reference to the primary plane . In the state of the parts of the buckle inserted into each other and interlocked the latches are in a locking position in which they cooperate with the holding catches . By engaging the holding catches they block the insertion appendages from being pulled out of the insertion opening against the direction of insertion . The latches are impinged in the locking position by spring elements . In the exemplary embodiment shown the spring elements represent coil springs projecting from blind bores of the basic body into the penetrating opening of the basic body and also supported on the one side at the bottom of the blind bore and on the other side at the latch. The latches are two armed levers. By engaging the lever arms projecting from the basic body the forces to be applied are symbolized by the arrows in the latches are pivoted around their axes into the opening position in which they release the holding catches allowing the insertion appendage to be pulled out of the insertion opening .

In order to connect the separated parts of the buckle the insertion part is inserted into the insertion opening . The front end of the insertion appendage approaches the lever arms of the latches located inside the basic body and forcefully separates them by pivoting the latches around their pivotal axes against the force of the spring elements until the latches engage behind the fastening catches in the entirely inserted state of the insertion part .

In the area of the entrance of the penetrating opening of the basic body and or the channel through the basic body in the belt opening i.e. in the area adjacent to the window the penetrating opening of the basic body and or the channel through the basic body is limited in the perpendicular direction at both sides by guiding surfaces . These guiding surfaces serve to guide the edge surfaces of the holding catches pointing in the perpendicular direction. The guiding surfaces therefore counteract a displacement of the edge surfaces in the perpendicular direction with it representing a planar support for the edge surfaces and not simply representing edges.

The guiding surfaces and the sections of the edge surfaces cooperating with them are preferably located in planes with their normal surface being positioned essentially parallel to the perpendicular direction.

For a simple embodiment of the penetrating opening through the basic body with the guiding surfaces which is explained in greater detail in the following the limiting surface of the belt opening in which the window is embodied is provided with first and second recesses . The recesses begin at the window namely they penetrate one of the two walls cf. which are located between the penetrating opening through the basic body of the receiving part and the lateral surface of the receiving part . Faces of the recesses form sections of the limiting surface of the belt opening with both of them penetrating the same wall and are distanced in reference to the perpendicular direction. In reference to the perpendicular direction a respective recess follows adjacent to the respective two lateral edges limiting the window in the perpendicular direction and extend beginning at the respective lateral edge in the direction to the other lateral edge .

The lateral wall can be slightly spaced apart from the face pointing to the window between the first and the second recess as discernible from for example.

If desired third and fourth recesses may be embodied in the other wall in a similar fashion as in the first and second recesses .

A stop is formed at the insertion appendage provided with edge surfaces which are positioned at a right angle in reference to the primary plane and point in the perpendicular direction. The edge surfaces of the stop cooperate with the edges of a guiding recess beginning at the inserting side of the basic body of the receiving part with a guidance being formed for the insertion appendage . This guidance counteracts any displacement of the insertion appendage in the perpendicular direction in the area of this guidance. Preferably the edge surfaces are positioned in planes with their normal surfaces essentially being positioned parallel in reference to the perpendicular direction.

The guidance of the insertion appendage on the one hand through the guidance surface and on the other hand through the edge surfaces achieves an advantageous guidance of the insertion appendage with these two guides being spaced apart in the direction of insertion resulting in little play of the insertion part in reference to the receiving part with regard to a tilting around an axis positioned at a right angle in reference to the primary plane in an inserted state of the two parts of the buckle.

Advantageously the insertion appendage of the insertion part protrudes slightly from the window in the inserted state of the two parts of the buckle preferably at least 1 mm. Thus the guiding surfaces can be maximally utilized in spite of rounded edges in the area of the front end of the insertion appendage in reference to the direction of insertion and in spite of the existing play of the insertion part in reference to the receiving part in the inserted state.

The mating buckle parts are designed to not open under load. Otherwise the buckle would not be acceptable for many uses. shows a novel insertion part . Insertion part may be used with receiving part to form a novel open under load buckle. Insertion part includes an insertion appendage that differs from insertion appendage of . is an enlarged view of insertion appendage showing holding catches arranged at both sides of insertion appendage . Holding catches each project perpendicularly to a central longitudinal axis XX of insertion part . Holding catches engage latches when insertion part is inserted fully into receiving part . Because insertion appendage is symmetric about axis XX only one holding catch will be described.

Holding catch includes a surface for engaging latch . Surface includes a planar portion that extends from a portion of holding catch that is most distant from central longitudinal axis XX. Planar portion extends inwardly towards central longitudinal axis XX. Planar portion forms an acute angle T with central longitudinal axis XX. Surface includes a rounded portion that connects planar portion with a side of insertion appendage . Angle T may be in a range of 51 66 degrees more preferably in a range of 55 62 degrees and most preferably in a range of 58 59 degrees. In one embodiment an angle S between planar portion and side of insertion appendage is about 114 degrees.

Belts are reinforced webbing made from a flexible fabric material for example polyester. The reinforcing component of the webbing may be for example KEVLAR VECTRAN or DYNEEMA. Bicomponent yarn may be used for edges of the webbing for added abrasion resistance. The webbing may be treated to be water repellant. The webbing may include a finish to repel dirt and add additional abrasion resistance to the body of the webbing. The webbing is ultra violet UV resistant without loss of strength to withstand 1000 hours of exposure to UV Type A and Type B. Suitable webbing is available from Murdock Webbing Company Inc. 27 Foundry Street Central Falls R.I. 02863.

The width of belts is the same. The width of belts may be in a range of 0.25 to 12 inches preferably in a range of 0.75 to 2 inches. The breaking strength of belts may be in a range of 100 to 25 000 pounds. In one embodiment the width of belts is one inch the working load is 100 pounds constant static without failure or stretch and the breaking strength is 2000 pounds. In another embodiment the width of belts is 1.75 inches the working load is 200 pounds constant static without failure or stretch and the breaking strength is 5000 pounds. Belts may be any length. Buckle end of belt is used to cinch or adjust the length of belt between anchor end and insertion part .

Referring to anchor end of belt is in the form of a loop that is made by folding the webbing and then sewing and or fusing the end of the webbing as at . Carabiner passes through the loop of anchor end . Buckle end of belt is in the form of a loop that is made by folding the webbing and then sewing and or fusing the end of the webbing as at . The loop of buckle end passes through belt opening in receiving part .

Referring to anchor end of belt is in the form of a loop made by folding the webbing and sewing and or fusing the end of the webbing as at . Buckle end of belt passes over and around cinching bar of insertion part and then is folded back upon belt to be grasped and used to ratchet or tighten belt in a known manner.

Of course rather than cinching bar and two belt openings insertion part can include only a single belt opening in which case buckle end of belt would be looped and sewn to insertion part . Likewise rather than a single belt opening receiving part can include a central movable bar or cinching bar with two belt openings in which case buckle end of belt would be not be looped and sewn but would be a free end used to ratchet or tighten belt .

Belt and or belt may include one or more longitudinal slots . Slots are edgewise openings in belts . Slots are separations of two surfaces of the webbing used to make belts . Slots are created during the webbing weaving process by interrupting the basic weaving for an interval to permit each surface of the webbing to weave as one for the desired length of slot before resuming basic weaving. In the embodiment shown there are six slots in each belt although more or fewer slots may be used. Because slots open from the edges of the belt markers such as paint or ink circles may be placed on the face and back of the belt to identify the location of one or more slots .

One use of slots is to create a clothesline using belts . After belts are anchored insertion part is inserted in receiving part and buckle end of belt is pulled to tighten belts additional carabiners may be looped through slots in belts . The carabiners hanging from slots may then be used as hangers for gear or equipment. Another use of slots is to create an anchor for one or both of belts .

As shown in belts may be anchored using carabiner looped through anchor . Anchor may include an opening through which for example a threaded fastener may be inserted and threaded into a threaded opening in a support member. Sometimes a threaded opening or other suitable fixture is not available to anchor one or both of belt or belt using carabiner and or anchor . In that case the belt itself may be used as an anchor. For example belt may be anchored by first removing carabiner and anchor from anchor end of belt . Then anchor end is guided around a support member such as support member and anchor end is then inserted into slot most proximate anchor end . Anchor end is then guided through the next most proximate slot and then the next most proximate slot and so on. Generally guiding anchor end through at least four slots is sufficient to anchor belt and prevent the load on belt from pulling anchor end back through slots and off of support member .

After belts are anchored using either carabiners and anchors or by guiding the anchor end of the belt through a plurality of slots insertion part is inserted into receiving part and locked in the inserted state by spring loaded latches bearing against surfaces of holding catches . The tie down is tightened or cinched by pulling on buckle end of belt until sufficient tension is reached. The tie down can be released under load by pivoting the outer ends of both latches inwardly. If only one of latches is pivoted inwardly the insertion part will not be released from the receiving part .

The details materials steps and arrangement of parts have been described and illustrated to explain the nature of the invention. It will be understood that many changes in the details materials steps and arrangement of parts may be made by those skilled in the art within the principle and scope of the invention as expressed in the appended claims and equivalents thereof.

