---

title: Intelligent network service provisioning and maintenance
abstract: A network gateway is implemented on behalf of a customer entity. The network gateway may be implemented using a distributed computer system and the network gateway may connect a network of the customer entity to a public communications network. The network gateway may include network-related services without the need for adding specialized hardware. The network gateway may be provisioned programmatically in response to instructions received from the customer entity. The network gateway may be provisionable and accessible over several different types of data connections. The network gateway, by virtue of being implemented on a distributed computer system, is scalable upon demand without additional input by the customer entity.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09450967&OS=09450967&RS=09450967
owner: Amazon Technologies, Inc.
number: 09450967
owner_city: Reno
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120501
---
This application incorporates by reference for all purposes the full disclosure of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 461 478 filed May 1 2012 issued to U.S. Pat. No. 9 294 437 on Mar. 22 2016 and entitled REMOTELY CONFIGURED NETWORK APPLIANCES AND SERVICES U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 461 566 filed May 1 2012 issued to U.S. Pat. No. 9 288 182 on Mar. 15 2016 and entitled NETWORK GATEWAY SERVICES AND EXTENSIONS and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 461 661 filed May 1 2012 entitled FLEXIBLY CONFIGURABLE REMOTE NETWORK IDENTITIES .

As an increasing number of applications and services are being made available over networks such as the Internet customer entities and associated data are increasingly exposed to security threats such as unsolicited e mail spam distributed denial of service DDoS attacks trojans worms viruses and the like. In order to alleviate such problems customer entities enterprise and otherwise have turned to dedicated hardware that in networking terms is positioned topographically near to network ingress egress points to implement services such as spam control firewalling DDoS protection and other services for protecting networks to enable the networks to function effectively. Such hardware is often expensive and difficult to properly configure maintain and support. As such the addition or maintenance of such hardware can often have a significant impact on an organization possibly being disruptive and or decreasing productivity. Additionally hardware based threat management solutions typically do not automatically scale their capabilities up and down based on demand perceived threat level and or the like.

Systems and methods in accordance with various embodiments of the present disclosure may overcome one or more of the aforementioned and other deficiencies experienced in conventional approaches to providing access to data in an electronic environment. In particular various embodiments provide network connectivity and related services that enable customer entities to access a computing resource provider that provides one or more computing resources through computing resource services such as Web services. For example a customer entity may provision through such a computing resource service a network connection configured with network related services such that the network related services are implemented and provided to the customer entity utilizing the computing resources. Computing resource services may include one or more computing resources accessible and or provisionable across a network through an application programming interface API user interface UI or other interface where the one or more computing resources are scalable and expandable to provide the capacity needed for the customer entity or the implemented services.

In some embodiments the network connection between the customer entity and the computing resources may be a direct or Intranet like connection such as a connection made via a fiber optic link twisted pair copper cabling such as Category 5e wireless protocol such as Wi Fi or other connection linking the customer entity and computing resources over a local or wide area network. In some embodiments the network connection between the customer entity and the computing resources may occur over the Internet or similar public network with or without the benefit of a data securing mechanism such as a Virtual Private Network VPN tunnel.

In some embodiments the computing resources are further connected to the Internet or other communications network. Systems and methods in accordance with various embodiments provide the ability to provision and configure the computing resources to provide a network or Internet gateway or other ingress and egress point for network traffic to the connected customer entity. Some embodiments include the implementation via the computing resources of various network related services provided to the customer entity via the network connection. Such network related services in some embodiments serve to monitor secure filter and or protect the data retrieved e.g. by the customer entity s request from the Internet or other network by the computing resources prior to further submitting the retrieved data to the requesting customer entity. In some embodiments the network related services monitor secure filter and or protect data sent by the customer entity prior to submitting such data over the Internet or other public network.

Some embodiments provide for the network related services to be provided by third parties i.e. entities that do not own administer and or control the computing resources that implement the network related services. The third party network related services in some embodiments include services such as distributed denial of service DDoS protection firewall spam control data encryption or similar network related services. In some embodiments such network related services may include functionality ordinarily implemented in a physical network appliance such as a physical firewall device. In some embodiments the implementation of the services may be handled through an API UI or other interface.

Systems and methods in accordance with various embodiments provide the ability to intelligently provision scale and maintain the network related services and or the network or Internet gateway implemented using the computing resources. For example in some embodiments provisioning of the gateway and or network related services is computer implemented and programmatic in nature via APIs. Similarly in some embodiments the gateway and or network related services have programmatically implemented external and or internal monitoring in place and maintenance service requests and the like are all performed programmatically or otherwise automatically to the greatest extent possible. In some embodiments upon a change in demand systems and or methods are in place for determining whether a greater or lesser level of computing resources is necessary to perform the gateway and or network related services determining what specific computing resources are necessary to address the change in demand then scaling transparently to the customer entity the level of computing resources allocated to implementing the gateway and or network related services.

Various other applications functions and advantages are presented below with respect to the various embodiments. It should be understood that the description and figures provide a number of examples but the alternatives and variations possible within the scope of the various embodiments are not fully described. Alternatives and variations however would be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art in light of the teachings and suggestions contained herein.

In some embodiments the customer entity may comprise one or more datacenters each having therein one or more networks of computing resources. However it is appreciated that a customer entity may comprise a single workstation a cluster of workstations a single server a cluster of servers a datacenter multiple datacenters as illustrated a distributed computing resource or any level of complexity in between. The customer entity may have one Internet address multiple Internet addresses or entire Internet address ranges e.g. Internet Protocol version 4 IPv4 or Internet Protocol version 6 IPv6 address blocks that it wishes to allocate to a particular division of its network infrastructure. For example such division may depend upon a server s role as a web server or application server on the geographic location of a remote user requesting services resident on the customer entity s servers and or the need for balancing load across disparate customer entity servers.

In some embodiments the network comprises one or more devices for connecting the customer entity and the computing resource provider . The connection may occur over a public network such as the Internet and may or may not involve a securing mechanism such as a virtual private network tunnel. In an exemplary embodiment the connection occurs over a private network or a direct connection. Such a direct connection may occur via fiber optic cabling copper cabling or wireless transmissions such as Wi Fi by satellite link over a cellular or mobile data network such as GSM LTE EVDO CDMA WiMax. WiBro and the like or by any other appropriate connection type. The network may be multiplexed for speed or redundancy i.e. distributed over multiple constituent networks or connections or consummated via a single point to point topology.

In some embodiments the computing resource provider comprises at least one host or server . In an embodiment the computing resource provider includes several commodity servers configured in a distributed system. The distributed system in part or whole is configured to operate as a network gateway for the connected customer entity. The network gateway serves as an ingress egress point for data retrieved from and or sent to external hosts on e.g. the Internet via the second network . The second network may be a connection or connections of any suitable type. Thus in an embodiment the computing resource provider and distributed system operates as a remote network gateway for a connected customer entity. In embodiments where the customer entity comprises a computing resource provisioned from the same computing resource provider that spawned the network gateway the network connection may be virtual rather than physically manifested.

In some embodiments computing resources of the computing resource provider are configurable by the customer entity and or the computing resource provider to extend the implemented network gateway with network related services . Such network related services include distributed denial of service DDoS attack prevention and mitigation data firewalling e mail spam control data encryption and other services for managing and or manipulating network traffic. The network related services may be of the computing resource provider s own design or may be developed and or implemented by a third party. It will be appreciated that such third party network related services as implemented using the computing resource provider provide in some embodiments similar functionality to that of hardware devices implementing network related services of like kind without need for the customer entity to own maintain or otherwise provision such hardware devices. In accordance with an embodiment the network related services may monitor alter augment or selectively reject data in part or whole passing between the customer entity and the public network through the implemented network gateway.

As previously mentioned in an embodiment the customer entity may have servers serving different purposes such as web servers storage servers or application servers. As may be appreciated the customer entity may wish to advertise the availability of such servers to different subsets of external users on a variety of criteria including but not limited to geographic location latency available bandwidth corresponding region or the security credentials of the requesting external user. Toward this end when connected to the computing resource provider the customer entity may provide public identifiers such as an IPv4 or IPv6 address or a range of such addresses to the computing resource provider to advertise to external users on the customer entity s behalf. The customer entity may specify in any combination the server or servers or any portion of functionality implemented by the server or servers to which a given public identifier or identifiers maps. In some embodiments the computing resource provider detects various operating parameters of an external user or users connected to the computing resource provider over the internet and subsequently advertises the customer entity specified identifier range to the external user as appropriate. For example if the customer entity specifies that one cluster of servers bears a given identifier and specifies to the computing resource provider that all external users in a specific geographic area connect to that cluster of servers by default the computing resource provider routes connected external users accordingly. As another example if the customer entity comprises a portion or instance of the computing resources of the computing resource provider the customer entity may specify that a given computing resource under its control be made available to a specific subset of external users. The external users may be related to the customer entity the computing resource provider both or neither.

In some embodiments where the computing resource provider implements the network related services the third party service provider provides the computing resource provider with algorithms in the form of code executable by computing resources of the computing resource provider to effect the service as well as any data or metadata required to enable the computing resource provider to develop implement and market the instant service. In an embodiment the network related service may run as a separate virtual computer system instance upon the computing resource provider s hardware and is called upon by a network gateway upon request. In some embodiments the computing resource provider provides a software development kit SDK or similar thus enabling anyone with access to the SDK for example the third party service provider to develop code and algorithms e.g. plugins that are inherently compatible with the computing resource provider s architecture. For example the computing resource provider exposes an SDK to a third party service provider who then develops a plugin implementing a network related service. However it is contemplated that any code executable by the computing resources may be used regardless of whether such code was developed using a computing resource provider provided SDK or similar framework. Upon submission of the plugin to the computing resource provider in some embodiments the computing resource provider makes the plugin available to customer entities that desire the implemented network related service. Upon a customer entity s request for the network related service the plugin is activated thereby extending the network gateway with the network related service s functionality and data is processed by the computing resources implementing the one or more algorithms comprising the network related service. It will be appreciated that such an implementation is extensible to as many requesting customer entities as the computing resource provider is capable or willing to support.

A customer entity can be provided with an application and or interface that allow the customer entity to access and utilize various aspects of the present disclosure. illustrate an example of a user interface UI that can be displayed to a customer entity where the customer entity may specify and configure the services the customer entity wishes to use. In this example a two step interface is shown with a provisioning page as shown in followed by a service selection page as shown in . It should be noted however that the UI shown in are provided for the purpose of illustration and that various other types of interfaces are considered as being within the scope of the present disclosure. For example the UI may be graphical as shown in but have substantially different elements graphical design or user interaction design. As a further example the UI may be a command line interface.

An authorized user of a customer entity wherein the customer entity may for example be a similar customer entity as customer entities and can be provided with an application and or interface that allow the authorized user to access and utilize various aspects of the present disclosure. illustrate an example of a user interface UI that can be displayed to an authorized user where the authorized user may configure and specify the services the customer entity wishes to use. In this example a network gateway provisioning UI is shown in and a service selection UI is shown in . The network gateway provisioning UI and the service selection UI may be part of the same user interface workflow or alternatively may be separate workflows. In some embodiments the network gateway provisioning UI is provided by a computing resource provider that implements the gateway to be provisioned. The service selection UI may be provided by the gateway implementing computing resource provider a third party providing the network related service or any other appropriate entity.

On the network gateway provisioning UI the authorized user is provided with user selectable UI elements enabling the authorized user to select network gateway and connection provisioning options as well as view important local configuration information. In this example a number of options are visible including implementing a network gateway and displaying configuration information the option to map specific public identifiers to customer entity hosts and the option to further refine the mapping of the subset of identifiers to specific regions of external users . Various embodiments may have different combinations and or different types of provisioning options not shown here. In addition it is contemplated that after provisioning is complete an authorized user may return to a similar UI or UIs to adjust selected options view configuration information or any other appropriate task.

On the service selection UI the authorized user is provided with user selectable UI elements enabling the authorized user to select from a number of available network related services that the customer entity may wish to apply to their provisioned connection and or network gateway. In this example a number of services are available for selection including DDoS mitigation for preventing and or mitigating DDoS attacks upon the customer entity firewalling that allows the authorized user to configure criteria for filtering rejecting or passing data and a spam filter for monitoring e mail and rejecting unsolicited dangerous and or unwanted e mail. In some embodiments a computing resource provider furnishes the page and displays one or more available service providers including third party providers for each service type to be presented for selection by the authorized user. In some embodiments a service provider furnishes the UI and enables selection of one or more service types and or services. Such selections may have contextual information that is viewable through a more info link to an informational popup or other techniques for conveying such information. For selected services requiring further configuration by the authorized user appropriate UIs for configuring the services may be embedded into the service selection page presented sequentially as separate pages after the selections or in another fashion a skilled practitioner would consider. In addition it is contemplated that after service selection is complete an authorized user may return to a similar UI or UIs to adjust selected options view configuration information or any other appropriate task.

In the illustrated example process a customer entity establishes connectivity with a computing resource provider . A customer entity may establish connectivity using any appropriate device or technology that permits data to pass between the customer entity and the computing resource provider. For example the connectivity established can be a direct connection as previously mentioned. In some embodiments the connectivity may be established over a public network such as the Internet either unsecured or secured. Secured connectivity for example may be established using and subsequent to the verification of a set of security credentials for accessing the computing resource provider. The security credentials may include a certificate or a shared secret key e.g. asymmetric keys such as RSA keys symmetric keys . In some embodiments the connectivity established may be programmatic in nature e.g. if the customer entity requests connectivity between instances of the same distributed computing resource.

In this example once connectivity has been established upon receiving a request from the customer entity to provision a network gateway a network gateway is provisioned using the distributed system of computing resources with which the customer entity established a connection in step thereby further connecting the customer entity to a second network. As previously mentioned for example in connection with the UI illustrated in such a request may be received through an API a UI or any other appropriate type of interface or service. Thereafter also as previously mentioned in connection with the gateway is provisioned using available computing resources and in some embodiments the provisioned gateway serves as the customer entity s egress and ingress point to a public network such as the Internet connected to the computing resources. The request to provision the network gateway may occur by any method including a query via a user interface via an API call or by any other appropriate interface type. Such a request may originate from any associated party including the connected customer entity and the computing resource provider.

Upon receiving a request from the customer entity to advertise a public identifier such as an IPv4 or IPv6 address on behalf of a customer entity s resources based on customer entity specified criteria the provisioned gateway is configured to route external users e.g. Internet users meeting those criteria to the customer entity s host or hosts mapped to the public identifier . For example the computing resource provider may divide its computing resources into regions. The regions may be divided according to one or more criteria and or characteristic s of the connecting external users or of the resources of the computing resource provider the criteria and or characteristic s including but not limited to geographic location performance capabilities such as throughput or latency uptime availability security capabilities or other logical groupings. Furthermore the regions may consist of multiple sub regions that are grouped along similar criteria and or characteristic s . External users connecting to a computing resource or resources corresponding with one of the regions may be routed for example to the customer entity provided public identifier associated with a customer entity web server dedicated to serving the aforementioned region. Such routing may occur over any appropriate medium and in any appropriate manner including but not limited to an IPSec tunnel. The customer entity resource may be manifested as a host physical server multiple servers a portion of a server a portion of a distributed system a type of computing functionality e.g. a given Web service or any other mechanism for sending storing processing and or receiving data. Such resources may be a computing resource provider s resources an instance thereof or alternatively local to the customer entity. The request to advertise a customer entity s resources may occur by any method including but limited to a query via a user interface via a web service and or via an API call. Such a request may originate from any associated party including the connecting customer entity and the computing resource provider.

Upon receiving a customer entity s request to apply network related services the computing resources are configured to apply the elected network related services to data passing through the computing resources and or implemented network gateway . As mentioned for example in connection with such services may have been developed by any party e.g. a third party and may be available to the computing resources and or implemented network gateway in any manner including but not limited to retrieval from a remote server through a network such as a server under the control of a third party network service provider from storage local to the computing resources and or held in random access memory RAM . It is contemplated that the services may be provided by and or implemented using resources of either a third party network service provider or the computing resource provider. As one example a third party network service provider may implement such services upon an instance or subset of resources provided by the computing resource provider but under the control of the third party network service provider. In this example since the network gateway is the customer entity s Internet ingress and egress point all data is subject to the implemented network related services. However embodiments are contemplated where only a subset of network traffic is subjected to the network related services or different network related services are configured to treat disparate streams of data. The determination of which data apply to which services as well as the level and nature of traffic subject to a given service may be determined by any appropriate process whether automatic or manual and either by the customer entity or computing resource provider.

In this example once the requisite data has been received by the computing resource provider the computing resource provider implements the network related service using one or more computing resources connected to at least one network thereby making it available over the at least one network to customer entities wishing to use the service. Implementation may take many forms including standalone availability as a Web service availability in conjunction with a network gateway as previously discussed in connection with at least or as a download over a network. The network may be private e.g. VPN Intranet or direct connection or public e.g. Internet .

As will be appreciated the steps outlined herein may occur as a discrete sequence or multiple steps may be combined into a single action. For example a single Web service call to publish a network related service may include the request the query and the submission as a single step. In some embodiments a network related service provider may perform the steps through a user interface. In some embodiments the network related service provider and the computing resource provider are the same.

Based on the information received in steps and the resource then determines whether optimization of the network related service s implementation is necessary . As will be contemplated the determination may occur based on one or multiple criteria as previously discussed. If the resource determines that optimization is necessary in step the resource determines an optimization plan . The optimization plan may take one of several forms. For example if network traffic exceeds the computing resource s ability to process it in light of implemented network related services the resource may determine that additional computing resources are necessary and thus the implementation plan may be a workflow for adding the requisite resources. Conversely if the resource determines that the available computational reserve is disproportionately large relative to that of other uses or instances of the resource the resource may determine what resources may safely be released for other uses. In some embodiments where the information gathered in steps and indicate a lapse in functionality the optimization plan may include steps to temporarily restore functionality e.g. by finding an appropriate resource to bypass the failed or poorly performing component and in some embodiments alert a technician. In some embodiments a resource comprises disparate functional units with differing capabilities and thus the resource must determine what constituent resources are best able to implement the optimization plan . Upon determining the appropriate resources necessary to implement the plan the resource executes or implements the plan upon the constituent resource or resources determined in step . As previously mentioned in some embodiments the implementation may involve scaling the level of resources committed up or down changing the type of some or all of the allocated resources to a more applicable or optimal type temporarily failing over to the determined resources and using the determined resources to kick of a remediation plan e.g. automatically submitting a problem report such that a technician is alerted and or suspending the service entirely.

The illustrative environment includes at least one application server and a data store . It should be understood that there can be several application servers layers or other elements processes or components which may be chained or otherwise configured which can interact to perform tasks such as obtaining data from an appropriate data store. As used herein the term data store refers to any device or combination of devices capable of storing accessing and retrieving data which may include any combination and number of data servers databases data storage devices and data storage media in any standard distributed or clustered environment. The application server can include any appropriate hardware and software for integrating with the data store as needed to execute aspects of one or more applications for the client device handling a majority of the data access and business logic for an application. The application server provides access control services in cooperation with the data store and is able to generate content such as text graphics audio and or video to be transferred to the user which may be served to the user by the Web server in the form of HTML XML or another appropriate structured language in this example. The handling of all requests and responses as well as the delivery of content between the client device and the application server can be handled by the Web server. It should be understood that the Web and application servers are not required and are merely example components as structured code discussed herein can be executed on any appropriate device or host machine as discussed elsewhere herein.

The data store can include several separate data tables databases or other data storage mechanisms and media for storing data relating to a particular aspect. For example the data store illustrated includes mechanisms for storing production data and user information which can be used to serve content for the production side. The data store also is shown to include a mechanism for storing log data which can be used for reporting analysis or other such purposes. It should be understood that there can be many other aspects that may need to be stored in the data store such as for page image information and to access right information which can be stored in any of the above listed mechanisms as appropriate or in additional mechanisms in the data store . The data store is operable through logic associated therewith to receive instructions from the application server and obtain update or otherwise process data in response thereto. In one example a user might submit a search request for a certain type of item. In this case the data store might access the user information to verify the identity of the user and can access the catalog detail information to obtain information about items of that type. The information then can be returned to the user such as in a results listing on a Web page that the user is able to view via a browser on the user device . Information for a particular item of interest can be viewed in a dedicated page or window of the browser.

Each server typically will include an operating system that provides executable program instructions for the general administration and operation of that server and typically will include a computer readable medium storing instructions that when executed by a processor of the server allow the server to perform its intended functions. Suitable implementations for the operating system and general functionality of the servers are known or commercially available and are readily implemented by persons having ordinary skill in the art particularly in light of the disclosure herein.

The environment in one embodiment is a distributed computing environment utilizing several computer systems and components that are interconnected via communication links using one or more computer networks or direct connections. However it will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art that such a system could operate equally well in a system having fewer or a greater number of components than are illustrated in . Thus the depiction of the system in should be taken as being illustrative in nature and not limiting to the scope of the disclosure.

The various embodiments further can be implemented in a wide variety of operating environments which in some cases can include one or more user computers computing devices or processing devices which can be used to operate any of a number of applications. User or client devices can include any of a number of general purpose personal computers such as desktop or laptop computers running a standard operating system as well as cellular wireless and handheld devices running mobile software and capable of supporting a number of networking and messaging protocols. Such a system also can include a number of workstations running any of a variety of commercially available operating systems and other known applications for purposes such as development and database management. These devices also can include other electronic devices such as dummy terminals thin clients gaming systems and other devices capable of communicating via a network.

Most embodiments utilize at least one network that would be familiar to those skilled in the art for supporting communications using any of a variety of commercially available protocols such as TCP IP OSI FTP UPnP NFS CIFS and AppleTalk. The network can be for example a local area network a wide area network a virtual private network the Internet an intranet an extranet a public switched telephone network an infrared network a wireless network and any combination thereof.

In embodiments utilizing a Web server the Web server can run any of a variety of server or mid tier applications including HTTP servers FTP servers CGI servers data servers Java servers and business application servers. The server s also may be capable of executing programs or scripts in response requests from user devices such as by executing one or more Web applications that may be implemented as one or more scripts or programs written in any programming language such as Java C C or C or any scripting language such as Perl Python or TCL as well as combinations thereof. The server s may also include database servers including without limitation those commercially available from Oracle Microsoft Sybase and IBM .

The environment can include a variety of data stores and other memory and storage media as discussed above. These can reside in a variety of locations such as on a storage medium local to and or resident in one or more of the computers or remote from any or all of the computers across the network. In a particular set of embodiments the information may reside in a storage area network SAN familiar to those skilled in the art. Similarly any necessary files for performing the functions attributed to the computers servers or other network devices may be stored locally and or remotely as appropriate. Where a system includes computerized devices each such device can include hardware elements that may be electrically coupled via a bus the elements including for example at least one central processing unit CPU at least one input device e.g. a mouse keyboard controller touch screen or keypad and at least one output device e.g. a display device printer or speaker . Such a system may also include one or more storage devices such as disk drives optical storage devices and solid state storage devices such as random access memory RAM or read only memory ROM as well as removable media devices memory cards flash cards etc.

Such devices also can include a computer readable storage media reader a communications device e.g. a modem a network card wireless or wired an infrared communication device etc. and working memory as described above. The computer readable storage media reader can be connected with or configured to receive a computer readable storage medium representing remote local fixed and or removable storage devices as well as storage media for temporarily and or more permanently containing storing transmitting and retrieving computer readable information. The system and various devices also typically will include a number of software applications modules services or other elements located within at least one working memory device including an operating system and application programs such as a client application or Web browser. It should be appreciated that alternate embodiments may have numerous variations from that described above. For example customized hardware might also be used and or particular elements might be implemented in hardware software including portable software such as applets or both. Further connection to other computing devices such as network input output devices may be employed.

Storage media and computer readable media for containing code or portions of code can include any appropriate media known or used in the art including storage media and communication media such as but not limited to volatile and non volatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage and or transmission of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data including RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disk DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the a system device. Based on the disclosure and teachings provided herein a person of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate other ways and or methods to implement the various embodiments.

The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense. It will however be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereunto without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention as set forth in the claims.

Other variations are within the spirit of the present disclosure. Thus while the disclosed techniques are susceptible to various modifications and alternative constructions certain illustrated embodiments thereof are shown in the drawings and have been described above in detail. It should be understood however that there is no intention to limit the invention to the specific form or forms disclosed but on the contrary the intention is to cover all modifications alternative constructions and equivalents falling within the spirit and scope of the invention as defined in the appended claims.

All references including publications patent applications and patents cited herein are hereby incorporated by reference to the same extent as if each reference were individually and specifically indicated to be incorporated by reference and were set forth in its entirety herein.

The use of the terms a and an and the and similar referents in the context of describing the invention especially in the context of the following claims are to be construed to cover both the singular and the plural unless otherwise indicated herein or clearly contradicted by context. The terms comprising having including and containing are to be construed as open ended terms i.e. meaning including but not limited to unless otherwise noted. The term connected is to be construed as partly or wholly contained within attached to or joined together even if there is something intervening. Recitation of ranges of values herein are merely intended to serve as a shorthand method of referring individually to each separate value falling within the range unless otherwise indicated herein and each separate value is incorporated into the specification as if it were individually recited herein. All methods described herein can be performed in any suitable order unless otherwise indicated herein or otherwise clearly contradicted by context. The use of any and all examples or exemplary language e.g. such as provided herein is intended merely to better illuminate embodiments of the invention and does not pose a limitation on the scope of the invention unless otherwise claimed. No language in the specification should be construed as indicating any non claimed element as essential to the practice of the invention.

Preferred embodiments are described herein including the best mode known to the inventors for carrying out various embodiments. Variations of those preferred embodiments may become apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art upon reading the foregoing description. The inventors expect skilled artisans to employ such variations as appropriate and the inventors intend for the invention to be practiced otherwise than as specifically described herein. Accordingly this invention includes all modifications and equivalents of the subject matter recited in the claims appended hereto as permitted by applicable law. Moreover any combination of the above described elements in all possible variations thereof is encompassed by the invention unless otherwise indicated herein or otherwise clearly contradicted by context.

