---

title: Systems and methods for three-factor authentication
abstract: In one aspect, systems and methods for three-factor authentication include receiving a user's identification and password transmitted from the user's mobile device, generating a One Time Password (OTP), encrypting the OTP, and encoding the encrypted OTP in a two-dimensional barcode. The two-dimensional barcode of the encrypted OTP is transmitted to a computing device of the user, and an image of the two-dimensional barcode of the encrypted OTP displayed on the user's computing device is captured using the user's mobile device. The two-dimensional barcode of the encrypted OTP is decoded using the user's mobile device to obtain the encrypted OTP. The encrypted OTP is decrypted using the user's mobile device and displayed. The OTP then is spoken by the user, and the user's voice and the OTP are recognized to authenticate the user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08862888&OS=08862888&RS=08862888
owner: King Saud University
number: 08862888
owner_city: Riyadh
owner_country: SA
publication_date: 20120111
---
Authentication is an important technique to support e business applications such as online banking e commerce or the like and to restrict access to secure websites secure computer systems and or secure installations. Traditional authentication techniques check a username and password supplied by a user attempting to access a site carry on a transaction or perform similar acts. Usernames and or passwords have traditionally been checked as plain text. Therefore such authentication techniques cannot resist dictionary attacks eavesdropping such as may be perpetrated by spyware including key loggers and the like social engineering attacks or even guessing very well.

An alternative existing authentication approach graphical password or Image Based Authentication IBA has been viewed as being more user friendly in terms of memorability and recallability. The basic premise is that the human brain is more capable of storing graphical information than numbers or letters. In addition IBA utilizes an easier and more user friendly memorization strategy. However IBA is susceptible to guessing and spyware attacks.

The described systems and methods relate to three factor authentication that in various aspects include receiving a user s identification and password a first factor of authentication which is considered as something the user knows. A One Time Password OTP then is generated and encrypted to provide an OTP encrypted by a shared key. The encrypted OTP is encoded in a two dimensional barcode to provide a two dimensional barcode of the encrypted OTP. The two dimensional barcode of the encrypted OTP is transmitted to a computing device of the user and an image of the two dimensional barcode of the encrypted OTP displayed on the user s computing device is captured using the user s mobile device. The two dimensional barcode of the encrypted OTP is decoded using the user s mobile device to obtain the encrypted OTP the encrypted OTP is decrypted by a shared key using the user s mobile device and displayed. If the decryption process is successful the user s mobile device has the correct key. This is considered a second factor of authentication which is something the user has. The user then speaks the OTP and the user s voice and the OTP are recognized to authenticate the user. This is considered a third factor of authentication.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.

In one aspect the systems and methods described herein relate to three factor One Time Password OTP based authentication that enables mobile phone based authentication for services provided on the Internet. Embodiments of the present systems and methods strongly authenticate users using their mobile phones and PC microphones in a user friendly manner. This multi factored authentication scheme is based on an encrypted OTP encoded in an image of a two dimensional barcode and also on biometrics i.e. speech voice recognition . This encoded password is called an OTP because it is useable only once. Three factors of authentication are used to authenticate a user including obtaining a login and password from a client side matching decoded OTPs between a client side and server side and utilizing biometrics such as voice recognition to authenticate on the server side. Encryption decryption may be used to further secure transmission.

In accordance with various implementations of the present systems and methods a user may easily authenticate him or herself using his or her mobile phone by first entering his or her user name or ID for the site he or she wishes to access along with his or her normal password for the site. A user may have software on his or her mobile phone which may allow the user to enter identification ID and a password PW as well as to foster secure communication with a server to complete the authentication.

A barcode scanner function on a computing device such as a mobile phone can be used to scan a two dimensional barcode image sent from the site to the user s computer. This two dimensional barcode may embody an encrypted OTP. A two dimension bar code is a black and white graphic that follows certain regulations and is used to store digital information. Compared to traditional so called one dimensional bar codes the two dimensional bar code is designed to carry more data. Applying a two dimensional bar code in the authentication process enables improvement in security. In various implementations the two dimensional barcode may be captured by a camera e.g. the mobile phone s camera and subsequently decoded and decrypted e.g. by the phone . Further the encryption decryption may employ a shared key based on the International Mobile Equipment Identity IMEI of the phone and or the International Mobile Subscriber Identity IMSI of the user which is known by the mobile phone and the site the user is attempting to access. A server may identify a user s mobile device through the mobile device s IMEI and or the user s IMSI. The IMEI and or IMSI may be extracted using the application programming interface API for the mobile device s operating system. The present systems and methods may also employ a hash function which may be based on this IMEI and or IMSI to produce the encrypted OTP. Due to the one way property of cryptographic hash functions it is infeasible for an eavesdropper to reverse the hash function and obtain an earlier piece of the hash chain. Further if the process of decryption cannot process the barcode password due to the wrong key the mobile phone attempting to process the barcode password does not have the required IMEI and or IMSI and hence is not the user s.

Biometrics are automated methods that recognize people based on their physical and action characteristics. Such biometrics may be voice recognition variously referred to as voice authentication or speaker recognition fingerprint recognition or the like. Voice recognition processes automatically recognize who is speaking based on individual information included in speech waves. Voice recognition uses the acoustic features of speech that have been found to differ between individuals. In accordance with various implementations of the present systems and methods upon decryption of the OTP and its display by the user s mobile device the user reads the OTP into the microphone of his computer. The server of the site being accessed receives this spoken OTP one time password . The password is authenticated and voice recognition is used to further authenticate the user to access the site.

Accordingly the present systems and methods for authentication utilize three factors that can be characterized as something the user knows user ID and password something the user has the user s mobile phone and something the user is his or her voiceprint fingerprint or the like.

The benefits of the present systems and methods may be applied in e commerce channels providing interactive secure and strong authentication of users. Importantly the present systems and methods may be a benefit to a wide variety of organizations businesses which require authentication i.e. online banking healthcare online shopping operating system login etc. whereby users will not be required to remember different passwords or carry tokens for authentication.

Particular examples discussed herein employ a user mobile device which may be a wireless telephone or other connected device such as a Wi Fi enabled device and employ a separate user computing device such as a PC. However the present systems and methods can utilize any combination of devices or a single device such as the user s mobile device alone. Further or alternatively the user mobile device may be a dedicated authentication device only enabled to carry out functions such as described herein.

Authentication server is responsible for generating the encrypted OTP encoded into a two dimensional bar code image as a challenge to the user. To that end authentication server might include one or more server computing devices each comprising one or more respective processors operatively coupled to respective memory each memory comprising computer program instructions executable by a processor to implement operations. Such operations might include receiving a username and password such as transmitted from user computing device or user mobile device generation of the OTP and encrypting it encoding the OTP in a two dimensional barcode and transmitting the two dimensional barcode of the encrypted OTP to user computing device . The operations carried out by the authentication server may also include receiving a transmission that includes the OTP as spoken by the user for recognition of the OTP to authenticate the user and for passing along to SBVS for voice recognition processing to compete authentication of the user. SBVS may be a secure server that could be located away from authentication server as a third party service. In accordance with various implementations of the present systems and methods SBVS generates trains and updates the user s unique set of speech models the user s voiceprint stores the speech model securely in a database and performs the matching process to authenticate a user.

The client i.e. user computing device could be any computer with an Internet connection or other data link via which the user can access an Internet based service or other data service. In accordance with various implementations user computing device comprises one or more processors operatively coupled to memory comprising computer program instructions executable by the one or more processors to implement operations. Such operations include initiating contact with authentication server such as supplying a username and password to authentication server . User computing device also receives a two dimensional barcode of the encrypted OTP displays the two dimensional barcode of the encrypted OTP for reading by user mobile device records the OTP spoken by the user and transmits the OTP to authentication server .

As noted user mobile device is incorporated into the present systems for three factor authentication. User mobile device may include one or more processors operatively coupled to memory comprising computer program instructions executable by the one or more processors to implement operations such as initiating contact with authentication server and supplying a username and password to authentication server . User mobile device may in accordance with various implementations read the two dimensional barcode displayed by user computing device decrypt the encrypted OTP encoded in the two dimensional bar code and display the OTP on the user s mobile computing device for the user to read into the microphone of user computing device .

At the encrypted two dimensional barcode embodying the OTP is transmitted by the site authentication server to the computing device of the user. An image of the two dimensional barcode displayed such as on the user s computing device is captured at using the user s mobile device. In one implementation for example this is accomplished by photographing the image of the two dimensional barcode using a camera of the user s mobile device. At the two dimensional barcode of the encrypted OTP is decoded and the resulting encrypted string is decrypted using the user s mobile device at . At the OTP is displayed such as on a screen of the user s mobile device in plain text. The user reads the OTP aloud at such as into a microphone of the user s computing device whereupon it may be recorded by the user s computing device and transmitted to an authentication server associated with the site being accessed.

The spoken OTP transmitted by the user s computing device is received at such by the server associated with the site being accessed. At the server or an associated dedicated voice recognition server recognizes the user s voice and the OTP to authenticate the user to access the site using the user s computing device and or the user s mobile device. This recognition of the user s voice at may employ any number of biometric voice recognition techniques. For example feature extraction is the processing of the raw speech data resulting in representative voice features which contain information of the physiological characteristics of the user. In feature extraction certain attributes of speech needed by the voice biometric system to differentiate people by their voice may be measured. Such techniques may employ mel frequency cepstral coefficients. The extracted features may be compared with an archived voiceprint of the claimed user which was created during the registration of the client and a matching score may be calculated to provide verification. If the matching score is over a predefined threshold value then the authorization is considered successful otherwise the user is not verified at .

Turning to and process to generate an encrypted OTP in accordance with one implementation the user s ID or username and password such as received at in reference to are initially verified at . For purposes of this example suppose a username of ID and a password for the user of PW. A specific identity of the mobile equipment is obtained at . As noted various implementations of the present systems and methods employ the user device s IMEI and or the user s IMSI for encryption of the OTP. The IMEI and or IMSI may be extracted using the Application Programming Interface API for the mobile device s operating system and may be supplied to the server such as at a time the user registers with the website and selects his username and password. In this example the specific identity of the mobile equipment obtained at is the IMEI which is considered unique to the associated mobile device. At an accumulated counter for how many times the user has visited the website accessed the server being accessed or the number of times an encrypted OTP has been issued to the user may be retrieved such as from the server being accessed.

For purposes of this example suppose as the hash function used which may in accordance with the present systems and methods be MD5 MD4 SHA 1 SHA 2 etc. In accordance with the present example an OTP string is generated at i.e. in accordance with step above . In process generation of the OTP uses a hash function and concatenation of the username the user password and the user device IMEI. For example ID PW IMEI may be used for generating an OTP by applying a hash chain on the function ID PW IMEI .

At the OTP is encrypted i.e. in accordance with step above . In accordance with process the OTP may be encrypted at by applying a hash of the specific identity of the user s mobile device e.g. the user s mobile Device s IMEI using a symmetric encryption algorithm This encryption may use a known symmetric algorithm such as AES 128 bit or 256 bit. In this manner the specific identity of the user s mobile device acts as a shared key. This shared key may also include salting added to the key as another security layer. This salting can be any predetermined function or integer constant such as by way of example the length of the IMEI and or IMSI number. The hash function applied at as mentioned above may be cryptographic functions such as the MD5 message digest algorithm Secure Hash Algorithm SHA or the like applied to the shared key for more security.

The counter is increased at and at a two dimensional barcode image of the encrypted OTP is sent to the user e.g. in accordance with step of above .

Client software on the user s mobile device decodes the two dimensional barcode image such as in accordance with steps of above. The two dimensional barcode of the encrypted OTP is decoded and the resulting encrypted string is decrypted using the user s mobile device for display. This decryption process may be carried out by extracting the key such as the specific identity of the user s mobile device IMEI and the salting from the user s mobile device using the mobile device s API. This key then is applied with the appropriate hashing function such as the aforementioned MD5 message digest algorithm or SHA 1 to employ a symmetric decryption algorithm code for decrypting the OTP string. Then the user can read the OTP aloud for transmission to and verification by the server.

As noted the client side software can decrypt the decoded OTP image using the known IMEI parameter and then generate the OTP. Since the generated image has been encrypted by this parameter e.g. MD5 IMEI Salting it should be decrypted by the same parameter. If the decryption process is not successful due to mismatch of the shared key e.g. MD5 IMEI Salting one of two circumstances may exist. The user may not have the correct mobile phone so an OTP will not be generated and the system will not allow the unauthorized user to login or the generated barcode is falsified and the user has been protected from spoofing or a similar attack.

Counter data such as retrieved at and updated at may be used as a synchronization parameter between the server side and the client side. Hence in accordance with the present systems and methods the number of OTPs that have been generated on the server side and the number of OTPs that have been decrypted on the client side may be tracked and compared.

Computing device includes one or more processor s one or more memory device s one or more interface s one or more mass storage device s one or more Input Output I O device s and a display device all of which are coupled to a bus . Processor s include one or more processors or controllers that execute instructions stored in memory device s and or mass storage device s . Processor s may also include various types of computer readable media such as cache memory.

Memory device s include various computer readable media such as volatile memory e.g. random access memory RAM and or nonvolatile memory e.g. read only memory ROM . Memory device s may also include rewritable ROM such as Flash memory.

Mass storage device s include various computer readable media such as magnetic tapes magnetic disks optical disks solid state memory e.g. Flash memory and so forth. As shown in a particular exemplary mass storage device is a hard disk drive . Various drives may also be included in mass storage device s to enable reading from and or writing to the various computer readable media. Mass storage device s include removable media and or non removable media.

I O device s include various devices that allow data and or other information to be input to or retrieved from computing device . Example I O device s include cursor control devices keyboards keypads microphones monitors or other display devices speakers printers network interface cards modems lenses CCDs or other image capture devices and the like.

Display device is optionally directly coupled to the computing device . If display device is not coupled to device such a device is operatively coupled to another device that is operatively coupled to device and accessible by a user of the results of method . Display device includes any type of device capable of displaying information to one or more users of computing device . Examples of display device include a monitor display terminal video projection device and the like.

Interface s include various interfaces that allow computing device to interact with other systems devices or computing environments. Example interface s include any number of different network interfaces such as interfaces to local area networks LANs wide area networks WANs wireless networks and the Internet. Other interfaces include user interface and peripheral device interface .

Bus allows processor s memory device s interface s mass storage device s and I O device s to communicate with one another as well as other devices or components coupled to bus . Bus represents one or more of several types of bus structures such as a system bus PCI bus IEEE 1394 bus USB bus and so forth.

For purposes of illustration programs and other executable program components are shown herein as discrete blocks although it is understood that such programs and components may reside at various times in different storage components of computing device and are executed by processor s . Alternatively the systems and procedures described herein can be implemented in hardware or a combination of hardware software and or firmware. For example one or more application specific integrated circuits ASICs can be programmed to carry out one or more of the systems and procedures described herein.

Although systems and methods for three factor authentication have been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological operations or actions it is understood that the implementations defined in the appended claims are not necessarily limited to the specific features or actions described. Rather the specific features and operations of three factor authentication are disclosed as exemplary forms of implementing the claimed subject matter. For example the present systems and methods for three factor authentication are generally described above with respect to authentication for access to a website or other data site. However the present systems and methods may be employed for authentication to access to a physical site such as by incorporating the functions carried out by the servers and the user computing device into a security system of such a facility. The user may use his or her mobile device to present identification information to the security system and or at least to scan decode and decrypt a two dimensional barcode of an encrypted OTP displayed by the security system. The user then may read the OTP aloud to the security system for recognition of the OTP and the user s voice in accordance with the present systems and methods for three factor authentication.

