---

title: Siloxane compositions comprising an alkylated cyclosiloxane and linear alkylated siloxane mixture
abstract: The present invention relates to siloxane compositions having a VOC of about 19 g/l, a flash point above 140° F., and a vapor pressure of less than seven millimeters of mercury (7 mm Hg). The siloxane compositions consist essentially of unsubstituted and/or alkylated cyclicsiloxanes having 5 or 6 silicon atoms, an alkylated cyclicsiloxane having 3 or 4 silicon atoms, a linear alkylated siloxane fluid, at least one alkylene glycol alkylether and an alkylene glycol having at least six carbon atoms.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08273698&OS=08273698&RS=08273698
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 08273698
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120426
---
This application is a continuation in part of co pending application Ser. No. 13 009 281 filed on Jan. 19 2011 which in turn is a continuation in part of application Ser. No. 12 639 476 filed Dec. 16 2009 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 897 558 issued Mar. 1 2011.

This invention relates to the development of non aqueous low VOC HAP free cleaner to meet new environmental regulation California Rule 1171 . VOCs are released during cleaning operations contributing to the formation of ground level ozone photochemical smog which can damage lung tissue cause respiratory illness and damage vegetation. Solvent emissions are regulated regionally and locally with the air pollution control districts in California implementing the most stringent requirements. The South Coast Air Quality Management District SCAQMD has imposed restrictions limiting the VOC content in solvents to no greater than 25 grams per liter for immersion cleaning processes unless the solvent is used in an airtight cleaning system. In addition under Title III of the 1990 Clean Air Act CAA amendments the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency EPA established emissions standards for categories and subcategories of sources that emit or have the potential to emit listed HAPs. More specifically this invention relates to cyclicsiloxane compositions and to methods of using said siloxane compositions which comprise a unique combination of two or more alkylated cyclic and linear siloxanes alkylene glycols and glycolethers characterized as low volatile siloxane compositions with flash points above 140 F. and vapor pressures of less than seven millimeters of mercury 7 mm Hg .

Solvent cleaners are known for their cleaning ability quick drying metal compatibility and low surface tension to facilitate penetration. Unfortunately most of these solvents are known also for the air pollution they cause regarding as volatile organic compounds or VOC toxicity flammability and incompatibility with plastics. Moreover the use of volatile organic compounds VOC solvents has been discouraged due to their deleterious effect on the environment. Regulations have been promulgated to accelerate the phase out of environmentally destructive solvents. The Environmental Protection Agency EPA promulgates rules and regulations regarding environmental concerns such as VOCs. EPA has defined a VOC to include any volatile compound of carbon which participates in atmospheric photochemical reactivity. Thus there is a need to reduce the use of conventional VOC solvents. It is apparent that a need exists for a solvent system which has little or no VOC content. The old specification P D 680 solvent commonly called Stoddard solvent or mineral spirits contains petroleum fractions that are complex mixtures of mostly aliphatic hydrocarbons but may contain some aromatics and olefinics. As such P D 680 contains hazardous air pollutants HAPs and VOCs and causes health and environmental concerns. The revision to MIL PRF 680 eliminated the HAPs but MIL PRF 680 still covers a petroleum based solvent containing the same amount of VOCs as P D 680. These solvents have been specified for general cleaning to remove oil and grease from aircraft and engine components and from ground support equipment.

There are several alternatives to the MIL PRF 680 solvents water based semi aqueous and solvent based cleaners. Water based cleaners contain detergents to remove grease and oil and may be used hot and or with various forms of agitation spray or ultrasonic . Disadvantages include flash rusting embrittlement of high strength steel and poor cleaning efficiency. Semi aqueous cleaning processes incorporate not only detergents but also solvents to improve effectiveness. Some products contain solvents emulsified in water while other contain water rinsable solvents. A significant disadvantage to semi aqueous cleaners is their susceptibility to separation. Solvent based cleaners however continue to be used in effective low cost cleaning processes. In order to retain the capability of solvent cleaning a new type of solvent is needed to meet the HAP and VOC requirements.

Under the proposed rule MIL PRF 680 will no longer be allowed in solvent degreasing operations in the SCAQMD. If a substitute material or process is not authorized the Aircraft intermediate Maintenance Detachment AIMD at Lemoore and other maintenance facilities will not be able to perform specific maintenance requirements in accordance with NAVAIR technical manuals. Since MIL PRF 680 is the only material authorized by the applicable maintenance manuals to clean flight critical parts an approved alternative for MIL PRF 680 was necessary to meet the new environmental regulations.

Specifically solvent cleaning of aircraft components is performed at organizational intermediate and depot levels and usually takes place in either spray sinks or batch loaded dip tanks. The primary solvent used for these applications has been P D 680 Type II which has a VOC content of more than 750 grams per liter g L . P D 680 A A 59601 is a petroleum based solvent which contains hazardous air pollutants HAPs and volatile organic compounds VOCs which causes health and environmental problems. Its successor MIL PRF 680 is also a petroleum based solvent which contains the same amount of VOC as P D 680 but does not contain HAPs. Alternative processes to eliminate VOC emission are immersion cleaning with cold or hot water based products heated high pressure spray washing using water based products and exempt solvent cleaning. Water based processes are often ineffective on heavy soils and can result in flash rusting of steel components.

To meet the new environmental regulations NAVAIR Patuxent River developed a specification MIL PRF 32295A Cleaner Non Aqueous Low VOC HAP Free . The new specification consists of three types Type I is intended for cleaning light soils such as oils and hydraulic fluids Type II is intended for cleaning heavy soils such as greases and carbon residue and Type III is intended fbr wipe cleaning applications. Three products have met the qualification requirements of MIL PRF 32295A Type I specification. Currently Type I qualified products are listed in NAVAIR 01 IA 509 Manual Cleaning and Corrosion Control Manual for cleaning aircraft applications. The cyclicsiloxane compositions of this invention qualify to be used to clean weapon systems across DoD maintenance facilities as an alternative to MIL PRF 680.

The present invention relates to cyclic or cyclosiloxane compositions characterized as low volatile organic solvents. The low volatile organic solvents consist essentially of a unique combination of at least one or more substituted or alkylated cyclosiloxanes having 5 or 6 silicon atoms and at least one substituted or alkylated cyclosiloxane having 3 or 4 silicon atoms. In addition to the cyclosiloxanes the composition has at least one substituted or alkylated linear siloxane having 3 to 8 silicon atoms at least one alkylene alkylether and an alkylene glycol that must have at least 6 alkylene carbon atoms. These cyclosiloxane compositions are specifically characterized as having a VOC of about 19 g l a flash point above 140 F. and a vapor pressure of less than 70 millimeters of mercury mm.Hg .

The present invention relates to linear and cyclosiloxane compositions consisting essentially of low volatile low VOC compounds. These cyclosiloxane compositions are characterized particularly as having a flash point above 140 F. and a vapor pressure of less than 7.0 millimeters of mercury 7 mmHg . The siloxane is a chain or ring composed of alternating silicon and oxygen atoms that can be unsubstituted or alkylated with alkyl groups of 1 to 10 carbons.

Specifically the siloxane compositions of this invention consist essentially of from about 40 to 80 parts by weight of at least one alkylated cyclosiloxane having 5 or 6 silicon atoms about 20 to 50 parts by weight of at least one alkylated cyclosiloxane having 3 or 4 silicon atoms about 1.0 to 10 parts by weight of a linear alkylated siloxane having 3 to 8 silicon atoms about 1.0 to 5.0 or 1 to 3 parts by weight of at least one alkylene glycol alkylether and more important from about 0.1 to 2.0 or 0.1 to 1.0 parts by weight of a higher molecular weight alkylene glycol having 6 or more carbon atoms.

Preferably the siloxane compositions of this invention must have low VOC s flash points above 140 F. with a vapor pressure of less than 7.0 millimeters of mercury 7 mm Hg and consist essentially of from about 60 to 70 parts by weight of an alkylated cyclosiloxane having 5 silicone atoms wherein the alkyl substituents of the siloxane has a total of 10 carbon atoms about 25 to 40 parts by weight of an alkylated cyclosiloxane having 4 silicon atoms wherein the alkyl substituents of the siloxane has a total of 8 carbon atoms about 1.0 to 10 parts by weight of a linear alkylated siloxane having 3 to 8 silicon atoms about 1.0 to 3.0 parts by weight of at least one alkylene glycol alkylether wherein said alkyl substituents have 1 to 6 carbon atoms and from about 0.1 to 1.0 part by weight of an alkylene glycol having at least six carbons.

Typical examples of alkyl substituted cyclosiloxanes having either 3 or 4 silicon atoms and cyclosiloxanes having either 5 or 6 silicon atoms include for example alkylated cyclic siloxanes wherein the alkyl groups are linear and or branched and contain from 1 to 112 carbons and preferably each of the alkyl group of the polysiloxanes have 1 to 4 carbons. Examples include tetramethylcyclotetrasiloxane tetraethylcyclotetrasiloxane pentaethylcyclopentasiloxane octamethyl cyclotetrasiloxane decamethyl pentacyclosiloxane tetramethylcyclotrisiloxane hexamethylcyclohexasitoxane and dimethyl cyclotrisitoxanes. Particularly suitable is the mixture or combination of octamethylcyclotetrasiloxane decamethylcyclopentasiloxane and decamethyl linear tetrasiloxane fluid in combination with an alkylene glycol alkyl ether such as dipropylene or diethylene glycol monoalkyl ethers wherein the alkyl group has 1 to 4 or 1 to 6 carbons with small but effective amounts of at least one alkylene glycol that should have at least 6 carbon atoms in order for the siloxane compositions to have a low VOC with a flash paint above 140 F. and a vapor pressure of less than 7 mm. Hg. The alkylene glycol alkylethers preferably include the monoalkyl ethers of dipropylene glycol triethylene glycol and tetraethylene glycol wherein the alkyl groups have 1 to 6 or 1 to 4 carbons. Other molecular weight alkylene glycol alkyl ethers include polyethylene or polypropylene glycol alkylethers wherein the alkyl group of the ether has from 1 to 10 branched or linear carbon atoms.

The cleaning efficiency test thr the alkylates cyclosiloxane compositions Navsolve cleaner of this invention was conducted in accordance with MIL PRE 32295A specification as shown in .

Stainless steel coupons 1 by 2 by 0.05 inches 25 by 50 by 1.3 mm was polished with 240 grit aluminum oxide abrasive paper or cloth and solvent wiped with isopropyl alcohol. Coupons were weighed weight W1 coated on one side with 20 25 mg of soil then reweighed weight W2 . Soils tested were as follows 

Fresh solvent was used for each soil tested. Each test coupon was cyclically immersed and withdrawn from a 150 ml beaker containing 100 ml of the cleaner at a rate of 20 cycles per minute for 5 minutes. Each coupon dried for 10 minutes at 140 4 F. 60 2 C. cooled to room temperature and reweighed weight W3 . Cleaning efficiency for the cleaner was calculated as follows for each coupon Cleaning efficiency 2 3 2 1 100

The effect of the developed Navsolve cleaner on plastics was conducted in accordance with the ASTM F484 and showed the following results.

The flash point of flammable liquid is the lowest temperature at which it can form an ignitable mixture in air. The flash point for Navsolve cleaner was measured in accordance with MIL PRF 32295A specification ASTM D 56 and found as 141 F. To avoid the flammability problem the flash point for the solvent must be 140 F. or higher. The flash point property is essential for solvent cleaner selection to ensure worker safety and health protection.

While some preferred embodiments have been disclosed there are other modifications and variations that can be practiced without departing from the scope of the appended claims.

