---

title: Enhanced physical downlink control channel (ePDCCH) with physical resource block (PRB) bundling
abstract: Technology for physical resource block (PRB) bundling an enhanced physical downlink control channel (ePDCCH) with a physical downlink shared channel (PDSCH) is disclosed. One method can include a wireless device receiving from a node the ePDCCH in an ePDCCH PRB contiguous in frequency with a PDSCH PRB carrying the PDSCH. The wireless device can PRB bundle the ePDCCH PRB with the PDSCH PRB.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09655086&OS=09655086&RS=09655086
owner: INTEL CORPORATION
number: 09655086
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120822
---
This application claims the benefit of and hereby incorporates by reference U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 612 188 filed Mar. 16 2012.

Wireless mobile communication technology uses various standards and protocols to transmit data between a node e.g. a transmission station or a transceiver node and a wireless device e.g. a mobile device . Some wireless devices communicate using orthogonal frequency division multiple access OFDMA in a downlink DL transmission and single carrier frequency division multiple access SC FDMA in an uplink UL transmission. Standards and protocols that use orthogonal frequency division multiplexing OFDM modulation for signal transmission include the third generation partnership project 3GPP long term evolution LTE the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 802.16 standard e.g. 802.16e 802.16m which is commonly known to industry groups as WiMAX Worldwide interoperability for Microwave Access and the IEEE 802.11 standard which is commonly known to industry groups as WiFi.

In 3GPP radio access network RAN LTE systems the node can be a combination of Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network E UTRAN Node Bs also commonly denoted as evolved Node Bs enhanced Node Bs eNodeBs or eNBs and Radio Network Controllers RNCs which communicates with the wireless device known as a user equipment UE . The downlink DL transmission can be a communication from the node or eNodeB to the wireless device or UE and the uplink UL transmission can be a communication from the wireless device to the node.

In LTE data can be transmitted from the eNode B to the UE via a physical downlink shared channel PDSCH . A physical downlink control channel PDCCH can be used to transfer downlink control information DCI that informs the UE about resource allocations or scheduling related to downlink resource assignments on the PDSCH uplink resource grants and uplink power control commands. The PDCCH can be transmitted prior the PDSCH in each subframe transmitted from the eNode B to the UE.

The PDCCH signal can be designed to be demodulated at the UE based on a cell specific reference signal CRS . However the use of a CRS does not take into account the increased complexities of advanced LTE systems. For instance in heterogeneous networks multiple nodes can simultaneously transmit within a single cell. The use of the cell specific reference signal can limit advanced techniques to increase cell capacity.

Reference will now be made to the exemplary embodiments illustrated and specific language will be used herein to describe the same. It will nevertheless be understood that no limitation of the scope of the invention is thereby intended.

Before the present invention is disclosed and described it is to be understood that this invention is not limited to the particular structures process steps or materials disclosed herein but is extended to equivalents thereof as would be recognized by those ordinarily skilled in the relevant arts. It should also be understood that terminology employed herein is used for the purpose of describing particular examples only and is not intended to be limiting. The same reference numerals in different drawings represent the same element. Numbers provided in flow charts and processes are provided for clarity in illustrating steps and operations and do not necessarily indicate a particular order or sequence.

An initial overview of technology embodiments is provided below and then specific technology embodiments are described in further detail later. This initial summary is intended to aid readers in understanding the technology more quickly but is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the technology nor is it intended to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

The communication of data on the physical downlink shared channel PDSCH can be controlled via a control channel referred to as a physical downlink control channel PDCCH . The PDCCH can be used for downlink DL and uplink UL resource assignments transmit power commands and paging indicators. The PDSCH scheduling grant can be designated to a particular wireless device e.g. UE for dedicated PDSCH resource allocation to carry UE specific traffic or it can be designated to all wireless devices in the cell for common PDSCH resource allocation to carry broadcast control information such as system information or paging.

In one example the PDCCH and PDSCH can represent elements of a radio frame structure transmitted on the physical PHY layer in a downlink transmission between a node e.g. eNodeB and the wireless device e.g. UE using a generic long term evolution LTE frame structure as illustrated in .

Each wireless device may use at least one signal bandwidth carrier bandwidth or component carrier CC as illustrated in . For example the LTE CC bandwidths can include 1.4 MHz 3 MHz 5 MHz 10 MHz 15 MHz and 20 MHz . The 1.4 MHz CC can include 6 RBs comprising 72 subcarriers. The 3 MHz CC can include 15 RBs comprising 180 subcarriers. The 5 MHz CC can include 25 RBs comprising 300 subcarriers. The 10 MHz CC can include 50 RBs comprising 600 subcarriers. The 15 MHz CC can include 75 RBs comprising 900 subcarriers. The 20 MHz CC can include 100 RBs comprising 1200 subcarriers.

The data carried on the PDCCH can be referred to as downlink control information DCI . Multiple wireless devices can be scheduled in one subframe of a radio frame. Therefore multiple DCI messages can be sent using multiple PDCCHs. The DCI information in a PDCCH can be transmitted using one or more control channel elements CCE . A CCE can be comprised of a group of resource element groups REGs . A legacy CCE can include up to nine REGs. Each REG can be comprised of four resource elements REs . Each resource element can include two bits of information when quadrature modulation is used. Therefore a legacy CCE can include up to 72 bits of information. When more than 72 bits of information are needed to convey the DCI message multiple CCEs can be employed. The use of multiple CCEs can be referred to as an aggregation level. In one example the aggregation levels can be defined as 1 2 4 or 8 consecutive CCEs allocated to one PDCCH.

The legacy PDCCH can create limitations to advances made in other areas of wireless communication. For example mapping of CCEs to subframes in OFDM symbols is typically spread over the control region to provide spatial diversity. However no beam forming diversity may be possible with the current mapping procedures.

Moreover the capacity of the legacy PDCCH may not be sufficient for advanced control signaling. For instance networks may be configured as heterogeneous networks HetNets can include a number of different kinds of nodes in a single macro cell serving area. More wireless devices can be served simultaneously by macro and pico cells in the HetNet. The PDCCH can be designed to demodulate based on cell specific reference signals CRS which can make fully exploring cell splitting gain difficult. The legacy PDCCH may not be adequate to convey the information needed to allow a wireless device to take advantage of the multiple transmission nodes in the HetNet to increase bandwidth and decrease battery usage at the wireless device.

In addition the use of multi user multiple input multiple output MU MIMO machine to machine communication M2M PDSCH transmission in a multicast broadcast single frequency network and cross carrier scheduling in carrier aggregation can require increased capacity for the PDCCH. The use of UE specific reference signals UERS in PDCCH demodulation at the wireless device can allow the use of multiple nodes in the HetNet. Rather than relying on a single common reference symbol e.g. CRS for an entire cell each reference symbol can be UE specific e.g. UERS .

To overcome the limitations of the legacy PDCCH an enhanced PDCCH ePDCCH can use the REs in an entire PRB or PRB pair where a PRB pair is two continuous PRBs using the same subcarriers in a subframe instead of just the first one to three columns of OFDM symbols in a first slot PRB in a subframe as in the legacy PDCCH. Accordingly the ePDCCH can be configured with increased capacity to allow advances in the design of cellular networks and to minimize currently known challenges.

Unlike the legacy PDCCH the ePDCCH can be mapped to the same REs or region in a PRB as the PDSCH but in different PRBs. In an example the PDSCH and the ePDCCH may not be multiplexed within a same PRB or a same PRB pair . Thus if one PRB or one PRB pair contains an ePDCCH the unused REs in the PRB or PRB pair may be blanked since the REs may not be used for the PDSCH. illustrates 4 DCIs and of an ePDCCH in a PRB pair . Each DCI of the ePDCCH can be transmitted by at least one CCE and each CCE can include a plurality of REGs and each REG can include a plurality of REs. illustrates a multiplexing pattern of an ePDCCH when multiple aggregation level AGL one localized CCEs are multiplexed in one PRB pair. An aggregation level one CCE e.g. a single CCE can include a DCI so four CCEs can include four separate DCIs. In another example not shown an aggregation level two CCE e.g. two CCEs can include one DCI. The PRB pair can also include legacy control e.g. legacy PDCCH and reference signals such as cell specific reference signals CRS and UE specific reference signals UERS and used for demodulation and channel estimation. In an example DCI 1 and DCI 2 can use UERS different from the UERS used by DCI 3 and DCI 4.

The PRB or PRB pair can be used to support both localized ePDCCH and distributed ePDCCH transmissions. illustrate localized ePDCCH and distributed ePDCCH in a slot or a subframe. In a localized ePDCCH the entire CCE may be within a PRB and or PRB pair within a subband and as illustrated in . In an example the REGs or REs of the localized CCE can be contiguous to each other which may be followed by a subsequent CCE. In a distributed ePDCCH the REGs and of the CCE can be distributed over multiple PRBs and or PRB pairs . The REG s in one PRB and the REG s in another PRB can form the CCE for the DCI or the distributed ePDCCH. In distributed ePDCCH the REGs for a CCE can be distributed over two or more PRBs or two or more PRB pairs . In an example the REGs of the CCEs used in the distributed ePDCCH can be distributed over different subbands and

A localized ePDCCH having aggregation level AGL one can be mapped to a single CCE which can be mapped to a single RB as shown in . Similarly a localized ePDCCH with an aggregation level of two may be mapped to two contiguous CCEs in a RB. For a distributed ePDCCH and the CCE s e.g. CCE and CCE N can mapped to a plurality of REGs in different RBs in different frequency carriers and subcarriers. For example the REGs for the CCE N can be distributed in frequency. The frequency separation of the REGs can provide a frequency diversity gain. In an example each REG in a CCE may be mapped to a separate RB although more than one REG may be mapped to a same RB as another REG. A greater frequency diversity gain that can occur with widely distributed the REGs. The REGs in CCE and CCE N may have the same distribution shown or different distribution not shown amongst RBs in a subframe. While the REGs illustrated in the distributed ePDCCH and are each shown to be in the same time position within a RB for each respective CCE a same time position within a RB for the distributed ePDCCH is not required. The distributed REGs in CCE and CCE N may be in a different temporal location within a resource block. Each CCE in a subframe may have a same number of REGs or a different number of REGs. The distributed ePDCCH can have an aggregation level of one. The aggregation level of one implies that the DCI information can be mapped to a single CCE.

The distribution of the REGs in a CCE over frequency to different resource blocks in a subframe can provide an increase in frequency diversity gain. illustrates a distributed ePDCCH and transmission a high frequency diversity order and low aggregation level.

In another example when the ePDCCH has an aggregation level greater than one e.g. aggregation level 2 4 or 8 the CCE can include localized CCE or distributed CCEs. A localized CCE can be CCEs for an ePDCCH with an aggregation level greater than one that are contiguous to each other which may be followed by a subsequent CCE in time or frequency. A distributed CCE can be CCEs for an ePDCCH with an aggregation level greater than one that are non contiguous or CCEs distributed over multiple PRBs or PRB pairs .

In another example PRBs used in a downlink channel or transmission can be precoded. A channel dependent precoder can be used for communicating over a multiple input multiple output MIMO channel and or signal allocation over multiple antennas. In an example the precoder can provide for transmit beamforming and power allocation across the transmitted streams. In another example the precoder values can be selected or assigned based on feedback.

In LTE a wireless device e.g. UE configured for transmission mode 9 for a specified serving cell can have a precoding granularity with multiple resource blocks in the frequency domain e.g. within a same subframe or a same slot when feedback e.g. spatial feedback is configured. The feedback can include a precoding matrix indicator PMI a rank indicator RI or a channel quality indicator CQI . Using multiple physical resource blocks within a same subframe or a same slot using for precoding demodulation and or channel estimation can be referred to as physical resource block PRB bundling. The PMI or RI feedback can apply to the multiple resource blocks grouped in a precoding resource block group PRG or a resource block group RBG . The PRBs within the PRG can use a same precoder. In an example the precoder can be assigned by the node and the PRB bundling can be applied by the wireless device. Without PRB bundling channel estimation may use fewer reference signals in a single PRB which can be less precise than a channel estimate using multiple PRBs precoded with a same precoder. PRB bundling can improve the performance through channel estimation gain.

Transmission mode 9 allows the transmission of PDSCH using user equipment specific reference signals UERSs or UE RSs or channel state information reference signals CSI RS with up to eight spatial layers. Transmission mode 9 transmission can be used for PDSCH transmission for closed loop single user multiple input multiple output SU MIMO or closed loop multi user MIMO operation or spatial multiplexing with up to 8 layers. Transmission mode 9 can support dynamic switching between SU MIMO and MU MIMO using DCI format 2C .

The PRG size can vary based on the system bandwidth. The PRG size can be the number of PRBs within a PRB bundle or PRG. For a system bandwidth of less than 10 PRBs e.g. 1.4 MHz the PRG size P can be one PRB per group. For a system bandwidth of 11 26 PRBs e.g. 3 or 5 MHz or 64 110 PRBs e.g. 15 or 20 MHz the PRG size P can be two PRBs per group. For a system bandwidth of 27 63 PRBs e.g. 10 MHz the PRG size P can be three PRBs per group.

In an example the ePDCCH and the PDSCH can be frequency division multiplexed FDM at a PRB pair level. illustrates different DCIs FDM in one PRB pair. In another example the PDSCH and the ePDCCH may not be multiplexed within a same PRB or a same PRB pair but both the ePDCCH and the PDSCH may exist within a PRB bundling window. PRB bundling with the ePDCCH and the PDSCH can be performed in some cases and the ePDCCH may be excluded from PRB bundling including the PDSCH in other scenarios for valid or accurate demodulation or channel estimation.

In a configuration a node can indicate to a wireless device e.g. UE that has been configured to apply PRB bundling to exclude the PRB used by ePDCCH in a PRB bundling process. The indication can be provided through radio resource control RRC signaling. Excluding the PRB carrying the ePDCCH from the PRB bundle can provide a scarification e.g. break up or reduction of a PRB bundling gain.

In another configuration the wireless device e.g. UE can PRB bundle the PRB used by ePDCCH and the PRB used by PDSCH for various localized ePDCCH transmissions and distributed ePDCCH transmissions. For example if the wireless device detects that ePDCCH and PDSCH are transmitted with a same rank on a same antenna ports the wireless device can apply PRB bundling of the ePDCCH and the PDSCH. The node e.g. eNB can indicate to the wireless device to apply PRB bundling. The indication to apply PRB bundling can be transmitted to the wireless device via radio resource control RRC signaling. The rank of the transmission can be the number of layers transmitted. A layer can be number of different data streams generated by spatial multiplexing where each data stream can be transmitted on a transmit antenna of the node. The ePDCCH and the PDSCH can be demodulated and or the channel can be estimated from a same UERS port. illustrates a PRB bundling window including an ePDCCH RB carrying DCI 1 and PDSCH RBs where the UERS in ePDCCH RB and PDSCH RB use UE RS port 7 .

In another example the ePDCCH and the PDSCH can be demodulated and or the channel can be estimated from different UERS ports. For example the ePDCCH can be demodulated from UERS port 9 and the PDSCH can be demodulated from port 7. If the wireless device detects that ePDCCH and PDSCH are transmitted with a same rank on different antenna ports the wireless device can apply PRB bundling. For example illustrates a PRB bundling window including an ePDCCH RB carrying DCI 3 and PDSCH RBs where the UERS in ePDCCH RB use UE RS port 9 and the UERS in PDSCH RB use UE RS port 7 . For example UERS port 9 in ePDCCH RB and UERS port 7 in PDSCH RB can be bundled for channel estimation or demodulation. Both the UERS ports in ePDCCH RB and the UERS ports in the PDSCH RB can be used for demodulation and channel estimation of the PRB bundle. Although UE RS port 7 and 9 are illustrated any UE RS port e.g. UE RS port 7 8 9 or 10 may be used.

In another example when an ePDCCH and PDSCH transmission use different ranks from each other the wireless device can demodulate the DCI from the ePDCCH and demodulate PDSCH from different UERS ports. For example an ePDCCH can be transmitted by rank 1 from the node and the wireless device can demodulate the DCI from UERS port 9 and the PDSCH can be transmitted with rank 2 from the node and the wireless device can demodulate PDSCH from UERS port 7 and 8.

The wireless device can detect the rank of ePDCCH from upper layer such as RRC signaling and the rank of PDSCH from DCI information. If the ePDCCH and the PDSCH are transmitted with a different rank the wireless device can apply PRB bundling. illustrates a PRB bundling window including an ePDCCH RB carrying DCI 1 and PDSCH RBs where the UERS in ePDCCH use UE RS port 7 or 8 and the UERS in PDSCH use UE RS ports 7 and 8 . A lowest rank UERS port either of the ePDCCH or the PDSCH can be used for demodulation and channel estimation of the PRB bundle.

In another example the node e.g. eNB can transmit to multiple wireless devices via a MU MIMO mode which can be transparent to a wireless device e.g. the spatial multiplexing capacity on the PDSCH can be unknown to the wireless device even after DCI decoding . With the MU MIMO mode a reference signal RS power imbalance can occur between the ePDCCH RB and the PDSCH RB even when the wireless device detects that both the ePDCCH and the PDSCH are transmitted with a same rank. In an example when MU MIMO is applied the node can indicate to the wireless device to exclude the ePDCCH RB from PRB bundling. The indication to exclude the ePDCCH RB from PRB bundling can be transmitted to the wireless device via radio resource control RRC signaling. Alternatively the node can de boost the power of UERS in ePDCCH RB for MU MIMO to keep a similar energy per resource element EPRE ratio between the UERS in ePDCCH RB and the UERS in PDSCH RB. The power of the UERS in ePDCCH RB can be de boosted by a power offset .

Like MU MIMO random beamforming or closed loop beamforming can be transparent the wireless device. In an example random or closed loop beamforming can be used for distributed ePDCCH transmission. The wireless device can apply PRB bundling to the ePDCCH RB and the PDSCH RB for random or closed loop beamforming when the node uses a same precoding vector for the ePDCCH RB as the PDSCH RB. When the node uses different precoding vectors between the ePDCCH RB and the PDSCH RB the node can transmit an indication to the wireless device to exclude ePDCCH RB from the PRB bundling process and the wireless device can exclude ePDCCH RB from the PRB bundle.

In another example transmit diversity can be used for distributed ePDCCH transmission. The wireless device can apply PRB bundling to the ePDCCH transmitted with transmit diversity and the PDSCH transmitted with beamforming. The wireless device can apply PRB bundling to the ePDCCH RB and the PDSCH RB for transmit diversity and or beamforming when the node uses a same precoding vector for the ePDCCH RB as the PDSCH RB. When the node uses different precoding vectors between the ePDCCH RB and the PDSCH RB the node can transmit an indication to the wireless device to exclude ePDCCH RB from the PRB bundling process and the wireless device can exclude ePDCCH RB from the PRB bundle.

Transmit diversity can be the use of two or more physically separate transmit antennas for signal transmission. Transmit diversity can be a type of antenna diversity also known as space diversity which two or more antennas can be used to improve the quality and reliability of a wireless link. Often especially in urban and indoor environments no clear line of sight LOS between transmitter and receiver may exist. Instead the signal may be reflected along multiple paths before finally being received. Each of bounce of the signal reflection can introduce phase shifts time delays attenuations and or distortions that can destructively interfere with one another at an aperture of the receiving antenna. Antenna diversity or transmit diversity can be effective at mitigating multipath interference.

The wireless device can apply PRB bundling to the ePDCCH RB and the PDSCH RB for transmit diversity when a PDSCH is transmitted with a rank of 1 2 or 4. The wireless device can exclude the ePDCCH RB from PRB bundling for transmit diversity when a PDSCH is transmitted with a rank greater than 4 or an odd rank. At least two UERS ports may be needed for transmit diversity. When the ePDCCH RB is transmitted with a single UERS port a UERS port used by the PDSCH may be borrowed for channel estimation and demodulation. If UERS base transmit Tx diversity is used for the ePDCCH transmission and the node indicates to the wireless device to apply PRB bundling and the PDSCH is transmitted by rank 1 2 4 with precoding vector w1 w1 w2 w1 w2 w3 w4 respectively the precoding matrix used for transmit diversity can be w1 orth w1 w1 w2 w1 w2 w3 w4 . For example when PDSCH is transmitted with rank 1 and precoding vector w1 the ePDCCH can be transmitted with precoding matrix w1 orth w1 where orth w1 is a precoding vector that is orthogonal to w1. The precoding vector orthogonal to w1 can provide minimal interference from PDSCH. When PDSCH is transmitted with rank 2 and precoding vector w1 w2 the ePDCCH can be transmitted with precoding matrix w1 w2 . When PDSCH is transmitted with rank 4 and precoding vector w1 w2 w3 w4 the ePDCCH can be transmitted with precoding matrix w1 w2 w3 w4 . The precoding vector w1 can be a precoding vector for spatial multiplexing for a first antenna port in a set of antenna ports. The precoding vector w2 can be a precoding vector for spatial multiplexing for a second antenna port in the set of antenna ports. The precoding vector w3 can be a precoding vector for spatial multiplexing for a third antenna port in the set of antenna ports. The precoding vector w4 can be a precoding vector for spatial multiplexing for a fourth antenna port in the set of antenna ports. The precoding vectors w1 orth w1 w2 w3 and w4 can each be an Nt 1 vector where Nt indicates the number of node transmit antennas.

In another embodiment an ePDCCH PRB bundling can be considered to improve the performance of ePDCCH channel estimation where contiguous ePDCCH RBs are grouped together. However in order to achieve frequency scheduling gain and diversity gain limited ePDCCH RBs may be distributed i.e. spaced apart in frequency within a system bandwidth and not grouped together. So ePDCCH PRB bundling within multiple continuative or contiguous ePDCCH RBs may not be implemented even with the ePDCCH having a high aggregation level. For a low aggregation level e.g. AGL1 the ePDCCH PRB bundling may not be implemented since one DCI may be allocated in one RB for localized ePDCCH transmission.

To achieve channel estimation gain from PRB bundling for ePDCCH the bundling process across the ePDCCH RB and the PDSCH RB can be applied instead of just PRB bundling between the ePDCCH RBs. In an example PRB bundling across the ePDCCH RB and the PDSCH RB can be applied when a same precoding vector is used in the RBs. The ePDCCH RB and the PDSCH RB can be bundled for channel estimation and or demodulation. The PRB bundling gain for ePDCCH RB and PDSCH RB bundling can be available even for a DCI with an aggregation level one AGL1 .

Another example provides a method for physical resource block PRB bundling an enhanced physical downlink control channel ePDCCH with a physical downlink shared channel PDSCH at a wireless device as shown in the flow chart in . The method may be executed as instructions on a machine where the instructions are included on at least one computer readable medium. The method includes the operation of receiving from a node at the wireless device the ePDCCH in an ePDCCH PRB contiguous in frequency with a PDSCH PRB carrying the PDSCH as in block . The operation of PRB bundling the ePDCCH PRB with the PDSCH PRB follows as in block .

The method can further include the wireless device channel estimating or demodulating the PRB bundle using a PDSCH user equipment specific reference signal UERS port and an ePDCCH UERS port. The PDSCH UERS port can differ from the ePDCCH UERS port. In another example the method can further include the wireless device channel estimating or demodulating the PRB bundle using lowest rank user equipment specific reference signal UERS port. The ePDCCH and the PDSCH can be transmitted with different ranks and a rank of the ePDCCH or a rank of the PDSCH can be a lowest rank. In another configuration the method can further include the wireless device channel estimating or demodulating the PRB bundle using a PDSCH user equipment specific reference signal UERS port and an ePDCCH UERS port. The PDSCH UERS port and the ePDCCH UERS port use a same port and the PDSCH and the ePDCCH can be transmitted with a same rank. The ePDCCH can be a localized ePDCCH or a distributed ePDCCH.

The method can further include the wireless device receiving an indication from the node that the wireless device is to apply PRB bundling. The node can transmit the indication to the wireless device via radio resource control RRC signaling. The operation of receiving the ePDCCH and the PDSCH can further include receiving the ePDCCH from the node using transmit diversity when PDSCH is transmitted with rank 1 2 or 4. The ePDCCH can be transmitted with precoding matrix w1 orth w1 when PDSCH is transmitted with rank 1. The ePDCCH can be transmitted with precoding matrix w1 w2 when PDSCH is transmitted with rank 2. The ePDCCH can be transmitted with precoding matrix w1 w2 w3 w4 when PDSCH is transmitted with rank 4. The vector w1 can be a precoding vector for spatial multiplexing for a first antenna port in a set of antenna ports w2 can be a precoding vector for spatial multiplexing for a second antenna port in the set of antenna ports w3 can be a precoding vector for spatial multiplexing for a third antenna port in the set of antenna ports and w4 can be a precoding vector for spatial multiplexing for a fourth antenna port in the set of antenna ports. The vector orth w1 can be a precoding vector that is orthogonal to w1. The vectors w1 orth w1 w2 w3 and w4 can each be an Nt 1 vector where Nt indicates the number of node transmit antennas.

Another example provides a method for excluding an enhanced physical downlink control channel ePDCCH in physical resource block PRB bundling at a wireless device as shown in the flow chart in . The method may be executed as instructions on a machine where the instructions are included on at least one computer readable medium or one non transitory machine readable storage medium. The method includes the operation of receiving an indication from a node at the wireless device that an ePDCCH PRB is excluded from PRB bundling as in block . The operation of receiving at the wireless device the ePDCCH in the ePDCCH PRB contiguous in frequency with at least one PDSCH PRB wherein each PDSCH PRB carries a PDSCH follows as in block . The next operation of the method can be PRB bundling the at least one PDSCH PRB without the ePDCCH PRB as in block .

The indication can include an instruction to apply PRB bundling. The ePDCCH is a localized ePDCCH or a distributed ePDCCH. The method can further include the wireless device channel estimating or demodulating the PRB bundle using a PDSCH user equipment specific reference signal UERS port.

The indication can exclude the ePDCCH PRB from PRB bundling when the PDSCH is transmitted with a rank greater than 4. In another example the indication can exclude the ePDCCH PRB from PRB bundling when an ePDCCH precoder vector differs from a PDSCH precoder vector. In another configuration the indication can include that multi user multiple input multiple output MU MIMO is applied and the indication can exclude the ePDCCH PRB from PRB bundling when MU MIMO is applied. In the examples the node can transmit the indication to the wireless device via radio resource control RRC signaling. The method can further include the wireless device decoding the ePDCCH.

The processing module can be configured to generate the indication to PRB bundle the ePDCCH PRB with the PDSCH PRB when at least one of the following scenarios occurs A PDSCH UERS port and an ePDCCH UERS port use a same port and the PDSCH and the ePDCCH is transmitted with a same rank the PDSCH UERS port differs from the ePDCCH UERS port the ePDCCH and PDSCH are transmitted with different rank and the ePDCCH is transmitted from a node using transmit diversity and the PDSCH is transmitted with rank 1 2 or 4. The precoder can be configured to precode the ePDCCH for transmit diversity with rank 1 2 or 4. The precoder can use a precoding matrix w1 orth w1 when PDSCH is transmitted with rank 1 precoding matrix w1 w2 when PDSCH is transmitted with rank 2 or precoding matrix w1 w2 w3 w4 when PDSCH is transmitted with rank 4. The vector w1 can be a precoding vector for spatial multiplexing for a first antenna port in a set of antenna ports w2 can be a precoding vector for spatial multiplexing for a second antenna port in the set of antenna ports w3 can be a precoding vector for spatial multiplexing for a third antenna port in the set of antenna ports and w4 can be a precoding vector for spatial multiplexing for a fourth antenna port in the set of antenna ports. The vector orth w1 can be a precoding vector that is orthogonal to w1. The vectors w1 orth w1 w2 w3 and w4 can each be an Nt 1 vector where Nt indicates the number of node transmit antennas.

The processing module can be further configured to de boost a user equipment specific reference signal UERS power in the ePDCCH PRB for multi user multiple input multiple output MU MIMO by a power offset to maintain a substantially same energy per resource element EPRE between a UERS in the ePDCCH and a UERS in the PDSCH when the PDSCH and the ePDCCH is transmitted with a same rank.

In another example the processing module can be further configured to generate an indication to exclude an ePDCCH PRB from PRB bundling when at least one of the following scenarios occurs The ePDCCH is PRB bundled with the PDSCH the PDSCH is transmitted with a rank greater than 4 an ePDCCH precoder vector differs from a PDSCH precoder vector and multi user multiple input multiple output MU MIMO is applied. The transceiver module can be further configured to transmit the indication to exclude the ePDCCH from PRB bundling to the wireless device.

The node can include a base station BS a Node B NB an evolved Node B eNB a baseband unit BBU a remote radio head RRH a remote radio equipment RRE or a remote radio unit RRU .

The wireless device can include a transceiver module and a processing module . The wireless device can be configured for physical resource block PRB bundling of an enhanced physical downlink control channel ePDCCH with a physical downlink shared channel PDSCH . The transceiver module can be configured to receive the ePDCCH in a first PRB contiguous in frequency with a second PRB carrying the PDSCH. The processing module can be configured to PRB bundle the first PRB with second PRB.

In an example the processing module can be further configured to channel estimate or demodulate the PRB bundle using a specified user equipment specific reference signal UERS port when at least one of the following scenarios occurs A PDSCH UERS port and an ePDCCH UERS port use a same port and the PDSCH and the ePDCCH is transmitted with a same rank the PDSCH UERS port differs from the ePDCCH UERS port the ePDCCH and the PDSCH are transmitted with different rank and the ePDCCH is transmitted from a node using transmit diversity when PDSCH is transmitted with rank 1 2 or 4. When the ePDCCH is transmitted using transmit diversity the ePDCCH can be transmitted with precoding matrix w1 orth w1 when PDSCH is transmitted with rank 1 precoding matrix w1 w2 when PDSCH is transmitted with rank 2 or precoding matrix w1 w2 w3 w4 when PDSCH is transmitted with rank 4. The vector w1 can be a precoding vector for spatial multiplexing for a first antenna port in a set of antenna ports w2 can be a precoding vector for spatial multiplexing for a second antenna port in the set of antenna ports w3 can be a precoding vector for spatial multiplexing for a third antenna port in the set of antenna ports and w4 can be a precoding vector for spatial multiplexing for a fourth antenna port in the set of antenna ports. The vector orth w1 can be a precoding vector that is orthogonal to w1. The vectors w1 orth w1 w2 w3 and w4 can each be an Nt 1 vector where Nt indicates the number of node transmit antennas.

In another example the transceiver module can be further configured to receive an indication from a node that the first PRB carrying the ePDCCH is excluded from PRB bundling when at least one of the following scenarios occurs The ePDCCH is PRB bundled with the PDSCH the PDSCH is transmitted with a rank greater than 4 an ePDCCH precoder vector differs from a PDSCH precoder vector and multi user multiple input multiple output MU MIMO is applied.

Various techniques or certain aspects or portions thereof may take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives non transitory computer readable storage medium or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the various techniques. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device may include a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. The volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements may be a RAM EPROM flash drive optical drive magnetic hard drive or other medium for storing electronic data. The node and wireless device may also include a transceiver module a counter module a processing module and or a clock module or timer module. One or more programs that may implement or utilize the various techniques described herein may use an application programming interface API reusable controls and the like. Such programs may be implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s may be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and combined with hardware implementations.

It should be understood that many of the functional units described in this specification have been labeled as modules in order to more particularly emphasize their implementation independence. For example a module may be implemented as a hardware circuit comprising custom VLSI circuits or gate arrays off the shelf semiconductors such as logic chips transistors or other discrete components. A module may also be implemented in programmable hardware devices such as field programmable gate arrays programmable array logic programmable logic devices or the like.

Modules may also be implemented in software for execution by various types of processors. An identified module of executable code may for instance comprise one or more physical or logical blocks of computer instructions which may for instance be organized as an object procedure or function. Nevertheless the executables of an identified module need not be physically located together but may comprise disparate instructions stored in different locations which when joined logically together comprise the module and achieve the stated purpose for the module.

Indeed a module of executable code may be a single instruction or many instructions and may even be distributed over several different code segments among different programs and across several memory devices. Similarly operational data may be identified and illustrated herein within modules and may be embodied in any suitable form and organized within any suitable type of data structure. The operational data may be collected as a single data set or may be distributed over different locations including over different storage devices and may exist at least partially merely as electronic signals on a system or network. The modules may be passive or active including agents operable to perform desired functions.

Reference throughout this specification to an example means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the example is included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. Thus appearances of the phrases in an example in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

As used herein a plurality of items structural elements compositional elements and or materials may be presented in a common list for convenience. However these lists should be construed as though each member of the list is individually identified as a separate and unique member. Thus no individual member of such list should be construed as a de facto equivalent of any other member of the same list solely based on their presentation in a common group without indications to the contrary. In addition various embodiments and example of the present invention may be referred to herein along with alternatives for the various components thereof. It is understood that such embodiments examples and alternatives are not to be construed as defacto equivalents of one another but are to be considered as separate and autonomous representations of the present invention.

Furthermore the described features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments. In the following description numerous specific details are provided such as examples of layouts distances network examples etc. to provide a thorough understanding of embodiments of the invention. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize however that the invention can be practiced without one or more of the specific details or with other methods components layouts etc. In other instances well known structures materials or operations are not shown or described in detail to avoid obscuring aspects of the invention.

While the forgoing examples are illustrative of the principles of the present invention in one or more particular applications it will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that numerous modifications in form usage and details of implementation can be made without the exercise of inventive faculty and without departing from the principles and concepts of the invention. Accordingly it is not intended that the invention be limited except as by the claims set forth below.

