---

title: Composite drill pipe and method for forming same
abstract: Metal inner and outer fittings configured, the inner fitting configured proximally with an external flange and projecting distally to form a cylindrical barrel and stepped down-in-diameter to form an abutment shoulder and then projecting further distally to form a radially inwardly angled and distally extending tapered inner sleeve. An outer sleeve defining a torque tube is configured with a cylindrical collar to fit over the barrel and is formed to be stepped up in diameter in alignment with the first abutment shoulder to then project distally forming a radially outwardly tapered and distally extending bonding surface to cooperate with the inner sleeve to cooperate with the inner sleeve in forming a annular diverging bonding cavity to receive the extremity of a composite pipe to abut against the abutment shoulders and to be bonded to the respective bonding surfaces by a bond.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08696034&OS=08696034&RS=08696034
owner: Advanced Composite Products & Technology, Inc.
number: 08696034
owner_city: Huntington Beach
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120717
---
The teachings herein constitute a continuation application of application Ser. No. 13 342 952 filed Jan. 3 2012 which was a continuation application Ser. No. 12 323 067 filed Nov. 25 2008 which was in turn a continuation in part of the matter disclosed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 952 135 filed Sep. 28 2004 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 458 617 and the benefit of this earlier filing data being claimed and the content thereof incorporated herein by reference as though fully set forth hereon.

This invention was partly funded by the Government of the United States of America under Cooperative Agreement No. DE FC26 99FT40262 awarded by the U.S. Department of Energy and the Government of the United States of America has certain rights in the invention.

Composite tubes have long been recognized for their light weight and torque transmitting capabilities. To realize the full benefit of the torque carrying capacity it is necessary that the remaining components of the torque transmitting string be especially strong.

The inherent difficulty in forming a high integrity interface between a composite tube and the adjoining surfaces has long been recognized. It has been common practice to form a joint with a mutual fitting or sleeve having a shell with a single surface abutting the wall of the composite torque pipe. This arrangement provides a single interface for bonding sometimes referred to as a single shear lap joint a method of forming a joint of this type is shown in U.S. Patent Appl. No. 2005 013783 to Williams. These single lap joints fail to provide the integrity necessary to carry high torque loads without failure.

In the past fitting assemblies with variously opposing surface geometries have been proposed to effect a secure capture of the composite end of a torque pipe within the fitting. Some examples of making such end fittings include those taught in U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 421 497 to Fiderman 5 233 737 to Policelli 4 810 010 to Jones 6 315 002 to Antal et al. and others. While suitable for the purposes intended each of the foregoing assemblies include threaded or otherwise releasably engaged parts clamping or compressing the composite between each other with inherently uneven load concentrations resulting in highly uneven shear stresses. This uneven load distribution between adjacent parts of course results in correspondingly uneven local strain deformations when exposed to the various high loadings in the course of use. There is therefore an inherent incidence of local bond separation between the composite itself and the adjoining fitting surface with some consequence for failure.

Artisans have recognized that the high torque loads applied to drive shafts cannot be adequately carried by previous proposals for wrapping filament bundles around circumferential grooves on a sleeve periphery and proposed a method for employing a tubular sleeve with longitudinal knurls U.S. Pat. No. 4 238 539 to Yates. Devices by this method are expensive to make and fail to provide the requisite load carrying capability for many high torque applications.

Efforts to enhance joint strength have led to proposals that the interference between an end fitting and pipe be splined or grooved longitudinally or circumferentially for receipt as a bond. Approaches of this type are shown in U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 830 409 to Freeman 4 952 195 to Taylor and 5 601 494 to Duggar. Joints made by these methods fail to provide smooth uniform interfaces to enhance the bond strength and distribute stress uniformly over the joint interface.

Alternatively end fitting assemblies have been proposed in which radial pins or other radial fasteners are added to the assembly as exemplified by the teachings of U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 332 049 to Tew 5 288 109 to Auberon et al. 5 443 099 to Chaussepied et al. and others. Once again while a change is realized from these radial interconnections the essentially separated nature of a single metal to composite surface interface is also susceptible to uneven load transfer with the consequent local separations an inherent possibility. For example the 049 patent to Tew appears to disclose a single metal composite interface held together by radial pins and an adhesive bond which may suffer from disparate torsional forces. Tew appears to propose a cylindrical outer protective sheath drawn over the pipe and lacking a tapered surface interface and suffers the shortcoming that the coupling itself fails to provide a high strength joint capable of carrying the high torsional force necessary to withstand the loads of both extended reach applications and short radius.

It can be seen then that a need exists for a lightweight and durable structure capable of withstanding the rigors of deep and directional drilling that is also capable of carrying a protected signal down a pipe string length.

Briefly and in general terms the present invention is directed to a composite to metal joint and method for making a connection joint for connecting composite torque pipe to a mechanical end fitting. The method involves the selection of a metal inner sleeve configured with a barrel and sleeve projecting from an annular flange to define on its exterior a distally narrowing conical shell surface. One end of an exterior sleeve is telescoped over the barrel and is formed with a distally projecting outer shell formed with an interior smooth conical inner shell surface concentric with the inner shell itself and cooperating therewith to form an annulus distally expanding in radial thickness a composite torque pipe is formed with an extremity formed with a concentrically tapered connector ring configured to compliment the shape of the annulus. The ring is inserted in the annulus and a bonding material is applied to the interface between the sleeve surfaces and the connector ring and allowed to cure.

The joint includes metal inner and outer sleeves formed with respective concentric shells with confronting smooth conical surfaces forming a distally expanding annulus and composite pipe formed with a tapered ring received concentrically in the annulus and bonded at the interface.

Other features and advantages of the invention will become apparent from the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings which illustrate by way of example the features of the invention.

As shown in current drilling practices depend on a string SP composed of drill pipe segments PS connected end to end to turn a cutting tool CT mounted on the lower string end. In the course of such turning the tool CT grinds and penetrates through the bottom of the well bore WB with the particulates continuously brought out to the surface by a circulating flow of drilling mud DM pumped into the bore to equalize bore pressures. As readily available formations are depleted these drilling projects now extend to much greater depth and or greater lateral reach with the weight of the pipe string SP and or its friction load in the well bore setting the practical exploration limits. The complexity of a drilling rig RG conformed for such long reach drilling is enormous and the logistics of its movement alone encourage directional capability along with an increasing pipe string. This same complexity of the rig also determines the manipulation convenience of each of the pipe segments PS again resulting in its own logistic and mechanical constraints resolved by the size of the rig or off shore platform that can be effectively implemented at the well site thereby limiting the length of each segment PS and multiplying the number of required joints JT that need to be made to extend the string to the desired depth. The combined weight of the string including all the down hole joints and any wear knots or pipe protectors shielding the pipe from wall contact along with the friction load resulting from this wall contact are thus resolved at the last surface joint which sets the design limit. It is within this limit that the rig operator tries to discover oil by periodic insertion of instruments down the bore or simply by inspecting the drilling debris brought to the surface.

In addition to the above physical concerns there are also those imposed by various laws and ordinances dealing with the environment. There is currently substantial public resistance to the equipment clutter associated with crude oil production appearing in one s neighborhood further promoting directional drilling a technique that compounds torsional loading as very long drill pipe strings are turned while resting on the wall of the well. This same technique also demands shorter radius turns or a more flexible pipe and also accurate instrumentation to inform the operator of the actual direction that is being drilled and of any formation details that are encountered. For all these reasons light weight high strength but elastic pipe is desired particularly if signal and power conductors can be combined therewith. All these concerns are now substantially resolved in the inventive structure and process described by reference to .

By particular reference to the inventive pipe assembly generally designated by the numeral comprises a tubular composite pipe segment formed by winding up reinforcing fiber such as carbon fiber preferably wound in stress determined orientation patterns between plies of interleaved wrapping all bonded together by resinous filler to form a cylindrical structure of a generally uniform wall thickness over most of its length.

Pipe segment may be formed with a generally uniform taper along a selected portion of each end and reducing in wall thickness. Each end may be defined by interior and exterior wall surfaces and respectively that are configured for receipt within conforming annular cavities formed by male and female couplers comprising a set of nested metallic end fittings and and metallic sleeves and . Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the surfaces of the pipe segment and adjoining structures for that matter may use other surface configurations yet in one embodiment tapered and frustoconical surfaces are used permitting a diffusion of torsional loads across the surfaces of connected pieces.

The metallic end fittings and include a flange with shoulders and and skirt including an exterior surface tapering in reducing cross section away from the flange.

The metallic sleeves and include respective telescoping flanges and skirts formed with interior surfaces tapering in expanding cross section away from the flange to when ated with the respective fittings and cooperate in defining an annulus distally expanding in thickness .

The annular cavities formed by the nested pieces are formed by axially aligning the tapered exterior surface of skirt adjacent an oppositely tapered surface on the skirt interior. The surfaces and are each closely matched to respective dimensions and tapered surfaces and where insertion of the surfaces and into the annular cavity forms an aligned pipe segment end interface. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that this self aligning construction creates a bonding interface that can be effected by any high temperature epoxy resin and will further appreciate that the close fit of this bond is further enhanced by close dimensional matching between the coaxially nested end fitting and sleeve pieces so that the sleeve forms a peripheral support for the tapered end of the pipe segment as it is slid into position within the end fitting.

In addition each of the skirts and moreover may include a radially matched set of lateral openings and dimensioned for press fit or interference receipt of corresponding optionally used pins that also pass through corresponding circular openings formed in the tapered ends and once the ends are fully received bonded and indexed within their receiving cavities. This same indexed alignment may orient the exposed ends of conductor leads that are woven into the filament matrix of the pipe segment into alignment with longitudinal drillings formed in skirts to effect an electrical connection across the pipe joint herein described. Beyond this bonding receipt each of the pieces is formed as a closely dimensioned telescoping cylindrical segments and which are each provided with corresponding exterior flanges and aligned next to each other when the skirts are properly positioned. Of course the same drillings extend through the flange to convey the lead ends there through.

Those skilled in the art will appreciate that while pieces and and also pieces and are described above by identical descriptions in application one of the nested end piece sets serves as the male portion of the threaded joint otherwise referred to as the pin end and the other end piece set serves as the female threaded or the box end . Accordingly those parts of the end fitting pieces and that are exterior of flanges are of necessity different depending on the joint function that is formed. Thus end fitting includes a threaded boss extending beyond the exterior shoulder of the flange that is conformed for threaded receipt in a threaded cavity formed in the other exterior shoulder of the other flange on the end fitting piece . Each of the flanges moreover includes drilling continuations shown as drillings and aligned with drillings drilling conveying the conductor end into a circular recess formed in the flange shoulder surface where the lead is connected to an insulated ring conformed for receipt within the interior of recess .

In an exemplary assembly the overall length of the pipe assembly measures approximately 359 inches. In this assembly the composite pipe measures 338.00 inches long between respective outer sleeve proximal ends and and includes an inner diameter of 1.625 inches and an outer diameter of 2.510 inches intermediate the end assemblies. The diameters expand outwardly therefrom toward the assembly fittings where the pipe inner surface and exterior surface respectively are formed with radial dimensions matching their confrontment with end fitting exterior surface and sleeve inner surface respectively. The overall pipe string diameter expands from the composite pipe outer diameter of 2.510 inches to a metallic fitting end diameter of 3.405 inches. The length of the pin end assembly measures approximately 10.00 inches from the distal end of male boss to the outer sleeve proximal end. The box end assembly measures approximately 1.00 inch longer between respective like features of female boss and sleeve end to accommodate the male boss . Thus it will be appreciated that the metal to composite conjunction is useful in extended reach applications by providing a diffusion of loads across the joint interface.

During operation in extended reach drilling applications as pipe strings drill deeper into earth using longer strings the greater the weight of the string becomes thus promoting drag and inhibiting drilling performance and efficiency. Greater weight contributes to increasing tensile strength loads under the increasing pressures of deep extended reach drilling environments pulling and stretching on the pipe assembly components and in particular tugging on joints where tensile loads can separate parts. As will be appreciated the length of the drill string of the presently described embodiment is approximately 86 composite material length compared to approximately 14 metallic material length. The metal is primarily reserved for the end fittings and sleeves that support the joint interface to the composite pipe segment and provide strengthened joint coupling between adjacent pipe assemblies where tensile loads can do significant harm. Furthermore to aid in drilling extended distances it will be understood that as the composite layers are formed additional carbon material may be added to strengthen the tensile load capacity of drill strings. The composite pipe walls may also be conveniently adjusted to thicker or thinner thicknesses depending on the depth of drilling by forming the pipe segments with more or less composite layers.

It will be appreciated that the drill string is conducive to carrying torsional loads by both the internal fitting to composite wall interface and by the metallic outer sleeve. In operation as the drill pipe string turns force loads are distributed along the walls of the drill pipe assembly and are diffused over pipe walls expanding from the intermediate portion toward the joint assembly interfaces and ends. When loads propagate toward the joint assemblies these loads encounter the dual tapered surface interface between the metallic end fittings and metallic sleeves confronting the composite pipe disposed intermediately there between distributing the loads across two surfaces interfaces. As torsional forces encounter the first tapered interface between the metallic end fitting and composite pipe the tapered surfaces create a larger area of load confrontment thereby diffusing the load effects over a greater surface area. Those skilled will appreciate that this effect is enhanced by a second tapered interface between the composite pipe and sleeve tapered surfaces where the loads once again encounter an extended surface area diffusing the loads a second time as the outer sleeve carries part of the load. As such drill assemblies for long reach with the proposed configuration can be assembled in strings beyond 35 000 feet in length.

Referring to end fitting includes a drilling indexed with drilling in the sleeve to convey the other conductor end into a manifold formed in flange and terminating in one or more openings through shoulder surface opposing the recess when the ends are threadably mated. Opening may in turn be provided with a spring biased piston carrying a bayonet point . Referring to a sectional end view of the pin end is illustrated showing the insulated contact ring circumscribed within the circular recess within the flange . The assembly of circular features in are shown in relation to the features of where the spring biased piston and bayonet point on the box end in manifold are in circumferential alignment to the ring. Once the bosses and are joined together it is then useful to pressurize the manifold interior advancing the piston against the spring bias to drive the bayonet point through the insulation on the opposingly aligned contact ring. In this manner one example of circuit continuity is effected between the conductors imbedded in the joined segments regardless of their relative orientation.

Those in the art will further appreciate that the foregoing arrangements are particularly suited for custom forming of composite pipe segments by way of the nested end fittings described herein. By particular reference to the fitting end pieces and may be combined with a forming mandrel effected by an inner core layer to form the turning core for the subsequent winding of fiber plies and the remaining interleaved layers forming the composite pipe in step . In this step the winding pitch fiber density and the selection of any sealing wraps may also be determined by the particular parameters of the well and the mandrel structure may be further stiffened and assisted by internal pressurization while the fiber wind up tension is controlled. Of course conductive leads may be concurrently also imbedded into the wrap again in accordance with the type and nature of the signals and or power that may be conveyed thereon. Once the structural conditions are met the end fittings are withdrawn from the core layer and thereafter nested in the sleeve pieces and in step . A bonding agent such as a high temperature epoxy resin is then applied to the pipe ends tapered rings defining the pipe ends and and the ends are then re positioned into the interiors of sleeve pieces and with the end fitting pieces and then pressed into their common interiors shown as the self centralizing step . In the course of this same step the exposed conductor ends are conveyed into their appropriate drillings to be thereafter connected either to the bayonet contact or the contact ring . In step the foregoing assembly is then brought into a spray cooled welding fixture illustrated in in which a weld is applied by a welding device to join the exterior flanges of the nested pieces and to each other and by the same example also the nested pieces and while water spray heads and cool the adjacent structure. Optionally once fixed by their flanges the sleeve and end pieces with the ends and captured there between are then drilled in step with perforations which thereafter receive press fit pins .

In this manner a self centralized end arrangement is useful both in the manufacturing and also in effecting a closely held bond interface between the high strength metal end pieces and the composite pipe segment with the interface further stabilized and fixed by welding and press fit pins. Simultaneously this manner of manufacture also provides a durable convenient and effective manner of incorporating a conductor into the pipe fully protected by the pipe pieces. The resulting high strength joint is then further complemented by the appropriately selected wind up pitch weave density and interleaving that are selected for the particular task. Thus the fabrication and the ending structure are rendered both highly effective and convenient.

It will also be appreciated that the aforedescribed drill pipe string may be improved upon to include enhanced configurations for effecting an electrical connection along the pipe string and modifications to the composite metal interface providing a durable yet flexible structure conducive to short radius drilling.

By reference to a second preferred embodiment employs the interior and exterior distantly converging tapered surfaces at the opposite extremities of the composite segments and showing an alternative contact implementation is obtained by embedding coaxial contact rings in each of the opposing shoulder surfaces and surrounding both the pin end and the box end of the joint assembly. As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art one or the other or both of the tapers may be in the form of continuous smooth surfaces as shown in or in some instances in the form of stepped surfaces cooperating to progressively narrow the thickness of the segment wall in the distal direction. Once again like numbered parts functioning in a manner like that previously described are utilized except that shoulder surfaces and are each provided with an annular groove and of a sectional dimension conformed to receive a corresponding elastomeric annular seal and . Seal is generally shaped as a U sectioned structure defined by concentric inner and outer annular walls and extending from a bottom wall . A conforming contact ring chamfered along its upper edges by a peripheral chamfer is then captured by elastic stretching within the annular cavity formed between the inner and outer sealing walls and of the seal with the outer wall stretching just over the chamfer to retain the ring in position. A similarly dimensioned contact ring is then received in the annular cavity formed between the inner and outer walls and of the box end seal with the groove depth or wall height of walls and being substantially greater than the thickness of the ring and and the depth of the receiving recess . The height of seal in turn is somewhat less than its receiving recess . Preferably both the contact rings and are inserted within their respective seals so that each contact surface projects just slightly above the corresponding surface and a projection determined by the dimensions of the annular recesses or grooves and and the dimensions of each seal. Of course walls and each project beyond the corresponding surface of ring before the threaded engagement of the joint as illustrated in .

In this projecting deployment both the opposing seals and the rings seated therein are fixed in rotation in each corresponding recess and by way of spaced axial pins and that project from the buried edges of each of the rings and into conforming pockets in each of the seal bottoms which are then inserted into conforming cavities formed in the abutment surface bottoms of each of the recesses and . The projecting seal edges and the rings therein therefore slide in rotation relative each other as the pipe joint is made. As illustrated in once the joint is made the excess volume of the elastomeric matter forming each of the seal walls and fills the volume of the concentric annular open ended grooves defined by the respective edge chamfers which also assist in the spreading of the seat edges to facilitate a direct contact between the rings as illustrated before the mating in . Thus the edge chamfers in ring allow for the elastomeric material flow of the seal material as the joint is threaded together ensuring a completely surrounding sealing closure as the exposed edges of the rings are pressed against each other while the smaller contact dimension formed between the edge chamfers assures a better ring contact while also accommodating a somewhat less precise axial registration between the pipe segments. This same material flow may be utilized to both seal and capture the exterior insulation around a conductor extending through corresponding drillings and through corresponding shoulders and and extending into one of the cavities in the bottoms of recesses and to pass the respective lead ends through the seal material and thereafter into perforations and in the corresponding rings and . Referring to a return conductor connected directly between the pipe segment ends can then be utilized to provide the return or common ground. Thus when environmental resistance is encountered at certain depths the load carrying capacities of the drill string sections can be adjusted accordingly. In this manner a rugged and reliable contact is effected thus accommodating both the power and the signal needs in deep well drilling.

In operation threaded assemblies may not result in the same two polar points aligning functionally. It may occur that a point on a threaded end does not meet a corresponding point on a receiving end more than once because the boss end may begin at a different point for threading or the degree of torque applied at the end of the threading shifts the points. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that by utilizing contact rings at the end fittings of a threaded pipe assembly an effective and efficient means for conduction of a signal is maintained even where the conductors are not in direct contact or alignment to one another. It will be seen that the contact rings and will be in conductive engagement regardless of where the conductor is situated on one end piece after threading relative to where the next conductor is on an adjacent segment. Thus as long as the contact rings are engaged and the conductors are in conductive proximity to the axial pins of their respective contact ring and insulated from electrical diffusion from one another and the surrounding conductive elements signal can be successfully transmitted from one conductor through the contact ring conjunction to the next conductor.

It will also be appreciated that by using annular seals to incorporate the contact rings and an efficient means of maintaining the conductive integrity is preserved. The annular seal assists in protecting the contact ring from the conductive properties and stress imposed by the metal walls of the pipe end fittings. By sheathing the conductor in an insulation in conjunction with housing the contact rings in the annular seals signal loss may be prevented from escaping to the pipe exterior. Once the two pipe ends are press fit further insulation is achieved where the elastomeric flow fills the annular voids within the shoulders of the two ends. By insulating the conductive components of the contact rings from other conductive components a signal can be transmitted down a line without short. Additionally as the pipe assembly advances through jagged rock surfaces contacting the drill pipe outer walls it will be further appreciated that embedding the conductor into the composite pipe segment walls and subsequently into the sleeves and end fittings protects the conductor from frictional contact with the surrounding environment.

It will be further appreciated that each of the conductors may be variously effected either as an electrical power lead a signal lead or even a fiber optic filament. Of course known techniques of signal superposition frequency and or pulse modulation or other signaling formats can then be effected by these leads to bring out down hole information directly to the rig operator as the drilling is taking place which can then be used to modify in known techniques the drilling direction and the cutting rate commonly referred to as LWD or logging while drilling and MWD or measuring while drilling. In this manner all the control and pipe compliance conditions can be conveniently accommodated in a pipe string that because of its light weight is particularly suited for ultra deep and or extended reach drilling.

In a third preferred embodiment it will be understood that for short radius drilling applications such as from offshore oil platforms where the drilling direction is rapidly changed to avoid obstructions or based on a feedback signal the nested pieces and their respective tapered surfaces may be modified to withstand varying external loads on the pipe joints accommodating flexing during drilling while maintaining a metal composite interface conducive for carrying a torsional load capacity. For example the drill string configuration in is similar to the drill string embodiment shown in except that the longitudinal length of the inner annular sleeves of the metal end end fittings and are concentric with and project approximately 1 inch beyond the end of the respective outer sleeves facilitating flexure at the metal composite junction. Similar to the embodiment shown in end fittings and include the inner and outer annular shells and respectively formed with the respective concentric annular sleeves and defining respective concentric annular confronting tapered surfaces and expanding distally away from one another to form a conical annular nesting cavity for bonded receipt of tapered surfaces and of respective pipe segment bonding rings and .

Referring to the end fitting is configured with an annular exterior flange formed with a first distally facing annular shoulder and then projects distally to form an annular barrel and is then stepped down further in diameter to form a second distally facing annular abutment shoulder and then projects distally to form the sleeve terminating in a distal extremity . Additionally those skilled will recognize that the composite pipe segment can be constructed to include less carbon material providing more flexibility in the composite segment length. Thus it will be appreciated that the pipe assembly is conducive for providing quick turns while maintaining durable integrity during advancement of drilling.

The outer sleeve is configured with a cylindrical outer surface and is formed proximally with an interior cylindrical stepped down in diameter collar to fit over the barrel and is stepped up in diameter to form a distally facing shoulder aligned with the shoulder to form a combined annular shoulder against which the blunt end of the respective pipe segment rings and are abutted. The inner sleeve terminates in an extremity projecting distally beyond the distal extremity of the outer sleeve. In one embodiment a weld nut is provided to weld the proximal end of the outer sleeve to the first annular shoulder. The fitting is configured at its proximal end with a boss formed with a threaded nipple . The fitting is formed with an internally threaded box . A bond is received in the interface between the outside surface of the pipe and the inner surface and a second bond at the interface between the exterior surface of the pipe and the interior sleeve surface

In operation as the drill assembly rotates advancing toward an oil trap the composite walls and offset metallic end portions provide a flexure point at the metal composite interface facilitating directional change during short radius turns. Those skilled will recognize that the composite pipe walls are relatively more flexible than the metal end fittings. Thus upon a relatively rapid change in drilling direction the composite walls will bend in the direction of the turn and the internal metallic fitting end bends with the composite walls. The external metallic sleeve end in turn provides a flex point for the internal metal end fitting and composite wall to bend from while simultaneously supporting the metal composite joint interface to partially carry torsional loads. As portions of the string advance past short radius turns the bending loads on the composite walls lessen and the more rigid metal end fitting helps draw the composite walls back to a linear state. Similar to the embodiment shown in as loads propagate down the drill string and encounter the metallic composite joint interface torsional loads once again encounter two extended cross sectional areas between the metal and composite surfaces and thus diffuse the loads at the two interfaces. Thus an appreciable degree of flexibility may be achieved during short radius drilling while providing a durable structure that can return to is rigidity as the pipe string is extracted from its hole.

It will also be recognized that the drilling experience is further enhanced by incorporating the conductor to the pipe assembly without detracting from the efficiency of or compromising the integrity of the assembly structure. As a string travels deeper into earth and the loads continue to mount on the string structure it will be appreciated that measuring signals sent along the string via the conductor can provide feedback for adjusting rotational speed as well as update the composition of surrounding geological attributes relative to oil proximity. The flexibility of the conductor cooperates with the advancement of the pipe assembly particularly in short radius applications where the conductor can flex right along with the pipe segment during tight turns.

The present invention is directed to a method of making a torque bearing joint between a metal end fitting and a composite pipe involving the steps of . Referring to paragraph of the text and in the drawings the subject joint is constructed of inner and outer metallic sleeves formed with respective continuous conical shells formed with a tapered exterior surface of the interior shell and tapered inner surface of the outer shell so as to form a annulus defining an annular nesting cavity having an annular shoulder for receiving the end of a composite tube . The composite tube is formed at its extremity with an annular connector ring which having interior and exterior walls which respectively taper toward one another to form a composite connector ring which complementally fits within the annulus as shown in to be bonded to the respective surface and to form a joint.

It is noted that the tapered surfaces are continuous without longitudinal splines or circumferential grooves to thus form continuous tapered surfaces which define respective bonding surfaces which are configured to nest firmly together to when epoxy or the like is inserted for bonding bond interior and exterior surfaces of the composite pipe to the metal fitting to form a secure bond.

It has been discovered that such a construction forms a highly reliable bond capable of carrying high torque loads without failure.

