---

title: Atomic layer deposition of quaternary chalcogenides
abstract: Methods and systems are provided for synthesis and deposition of chalcogenides (including CuZnSnS). Binary compounds, such as metal sulfides, can be deposited by alternating exposures of the substrate to a metal cation precursor and a chalcogen anion precursor with purge steps between.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08741386&OS=08741386&RS=08741386
owner: Uchicago Argonne, LLC
number: 08741386
owner_city: Chicago
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120928
---
The United States Government has rights in the invention described herein pursuant to Contract No. DE AC02 06CH11357 between the United States Department of Energy and UChicago Argonne LLC as operator of Argonne National Laboratory.

The present invention generally relates to methods and systems for synthesis and deposition of chalcogenides including CuZnSnS . Specifically embodiments of the present invention relate conformal metal sulfide thin film deposition.

Atomic layer deposition ALD is a layer by layer synthesis method capable of depositing conformal thin films with thickness and compositional control on sub nanometer length scales. ALD is emerging as the premier thin film deposition method to synthesize conformal layers with control over composition and thickness at the angstrom to nanometer length scale. ALD syntheses operate by alternating exposures to complimentary chemical precursor vapors. In the ALD window each of these precursors reacts with the surface sequentially in a self limiting fashion to deposit one monolayer or less.

Due to the self limiting nature of the complimentary surface reactions conformal pinhole free films can be deposited on nanostructured surfaces with very high aspect ratios 1000 . See e.g. Hamann T. W. Martinson A. B. F. Elam J. W. Pellin M. J. Hupp J. T. 2008 112 10303 10307 see also Martinson A. B. F. Elam J. W. Liu J. Pellin M. J. Marks T. J. Hupp J. T. 2008 8 2862 2866 both incorporated by reference herein. For photovoltaic solar energy conversion the unique capabilities of ALD could enable next generation high efficiency nanostructured devices. One example is plasmon enhancement which can increase the open circuit photopotential see e.g. Martinson A. B. F. Giebink N. C. Wiederrecht G. P. Rosenmann D. Wasielewski M. R. 2011 4 incorporated herein by reference by for example concentrating photoexcited charge carriers. See e.g. Warren S. C. Thimsen E. 2012 5 5133 5146 incorporated herein by reference. Absorption enhancements based on the localized surface Plasmon resonance LSPR are highly localized to within approximately 10 nm of the metal nanoparticle surface see e.g. Hagglund C. Apell S. P. Kasemo B. 2010 10 3135 3141 Thimsen E. 2011 23 4612 4617 Standridge S. D. Schatz G. C. Hupp J. T. J. 2009 131 8407 8409 incorporated herein by reference and so conformal absorber layers must be synthesized on the rough substrate at this length scale a challenging task ideally suited for ALD. Another example where ALD can contribute to improved photovoltaic performance is through minority carrier collection. For semiconductors in general the minority carrier collection distance is often incommensurate with the light absorption depth limiting conversion efficiencies in planar configurations especially at wavelengths near the band gap for materials with short lived low mobility photoexcited charge carriers.

ALD allows one in principle to decouple light absorption from photoexcited charge carrier collection using interpenetrating device geometries. This concept of decoupling light absorption from photoexcited charge carrier excitons or minority carriers collection has been proposed in various forms over the years some classic examples are the dye sensitized solar cell DSC bulk heterojunction BHJ solar cell and extremely thin absorber ETA solar cells. The scalable fabrication of a thin absorber layer that exhibits high internal quantum efficiency from earth abundant low cost components remains a central challenge to fully realizing the nanostructured device designs.

While many materials have been synthesized by ALD the technologically important metal sulfides are underexplored and homogenous quaternary metal sulfides are absent from the literature.

Compared to metal oxides metal sulfides have received relatively little attention from the ALD community. Self limiting chemistry often proceeds readily using HS as the sulfur source. Beyond binary and ternary metal sulfides to the best of our knowledge there are no examples in the published literature for the synthesis of quaternary sulfides by ALD. CuZnSnS CZTS is an absorber layer that has attracted attention recently for solar energy conversion because of its band gap Eg 1.4 eV the relative abundance and low cost of its constituent elements and its demonstrated solar to electricity power conversion efficiencies over 8 .11. In CZTS the oxidation states are Cu I Zn II Sn IV and S II . Control over composition in this system is important. CZTS compositions in the best devices are Cu poor and Zn rich. For example the 8.4 efficient CZTS device reported by Shin et al. had a Cu Sn ratio from 1.7 to 1.8 and a Zn Sn ratio from 1.2 to 1.3.11. It has been proposed that this empirical observation could be a result of the dominant acceptor defect which is expected to change with composition. In stoichiometric CZTS the lowest energy acceptor defect has been reported to be the Cuantisite i.e. Cu sitting on a Zn site which has a relatively deep acceptor level of 0.12 eV above the valence band maximum. The higher energy Cu vacancy defect is more attractive because of its shallower level only 0.02 eV above the valence band maximum.

The hypothesis is that the Cu poor Zn rich CZTS favors the formation of the Cu vacancy defect and suppresses the Cuantisite thereby improving performance. While the hypothesis regarding the role of the dominant acceptor defect in performance remains experimentally untested the empirical observation of the composition correlation stands. It is clear that a given synthesis process for CZTS must demonstrate control over composition. Even while CZTS devices have exhibited very promising performance the best devices still have low open circuit voltages compared to the band gap V 0.66 V E 1.4 eV . They also have relatively low quantum efficiencies at wavelengths near the band gap transition 900 nm as well as below 500 nm where parasitic absorption by the window layers becomes important. The published short circuit photocurrent densities in the highest efficiency CZTS photovoltaic solar cells are approximately 20 mA cm 11 well below the theoretical maximum of 33 mA cmunder AM1.5 illumination leaving room for improvement.

Many synthesis routes to CZTS have been explored. The most common ways to fabricate devices of reasonable efficiency are physical vapor deposition of metal or binary sulfide stacks followed by sulfurization or solution phase nanoparticle synthesis followed by deposition onto a substrate and annealing. For physical vapor deposition a common route is to thermally evaporate metal films e.g. Cu Zn and Sn onto a substrate and then anneal the metal film stack in a sulfur atmosphere at T 500 C. to generate CZTS. One can also do the same procedure using binary metal sulfide film stacks e.g. CuS SnS and ZnS . For nanoparticles they must be deposited on the substrate by for example spreading or dip coating. Like the metal film stacks nanoparticle deposition is typically followed by annealing in a some type of chalcogen containing atmosphere to obtain efficient solar cells.

One embodiment of the invention relates to a method of synthesizing a CuZnSnSconformal layer. A CuS layer is deposited. A SnSlayer is deposited on the CuS layer. A ZnS layer is deposited on the SnSlayer. CuZnSnSis formed from the CuS layer the ZnS layer and the SnSlayer.

In one embodiment the present invention relates to a method of synthesizing a CuZnSnSconformal layer. The method comprises creating N CuS SnS ZnS stacks by depositing via X cycles of atomic layer deposition CuS depositing via Y cycles of atomic layer deposition SnS and depositing via Z cycles of atomic layer deposition ZnS.

In one embodiment the present invention relates to a method of synthesizing quaternary chalcogenides. N first sulfide second sulfide third sulfide stacks by created by depositing via x cycles of atomic layer deposition a first sulfide layer depositing via y cycles of atomic layer deposition a second sulfide layer and depositing via z cycles of atomic layer deposition a third sulfide layer.

In one embodiment the present invention relates to a method of depositing SnSon a substrate. The substrate is exposed to tetrakis dimethylamido Sn IV for about 1 second. Then the material is purged for about 20 seconds with an inert gas. The substrate is exposed to HS for about 1s. Then the material is purged for about 20 seconds with nitrogen.

Additional features advantages and embodiments of the present disclosure may be set forth from consideration of the following detailed description drawings and claims. Moreover it is to be understood that both the foregoing summary of the present disclosure and the following detailed description are exemplary and intended to provide further explanation without further limiting the scope of the present disclosure claimed.

In the following detailed description reference is made to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof. In the drawings similar symbols typically identify similar components unless context dictates otherwise. The illustrative embodiments described in the detailed description drawings and claims are not meant to be limiting. Other embodiments may be utilized and other changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the subject matter presented here. It will be readily understood that the aspects of the present disclosure as generally described herein and illustrated in the figures can be arranged substituted combined and designed in a wide variety of different configurations all of which are explicitly contemplated and made part of this disclosure.

Methods and systems are provided for synthesis and deposition of chalcogenides including CuZnSnS . Binary compounds such as metal sulfides e.g. ZnS can be deposited by alternating exposures of the substrate to a metal cation precursor e.g. diethyl zinc and a chalcogen anion precursor e.g. HS with purge steps between. Certain implementations relate to an ALD process to synthesize a metal sulfide. Specifically one embodiment relates to synthesis of CuZnSnS CZTS a potentially low cost semiconductor being explored for photovoltaic applications. Implementations of the invention may be utilized for but are not limited to the synthesis and deposition of complex chalcogenides such as 

Two embodiments are further described herein 1 one in which a trilayer stack of binary metal sulfides i.e. CuS SnSand ZnS is deposited and mixed by thermal annealing and 2 a supercycle strategy. Both routes rely on the facile solid state diffusion of chalcogenides for mixing. For this ALD route to the CZTS system the challenges are nucleation ion exchange between the film and the volatile chemical precursors and phase stability of binary SnS. The CZTS thin films were made with no sulfurization step and appeared phase pure by x ray diffraction and Raman spectroscopy. X ray fluorescence measurements revealed that the films contained the expected amount of sulfur based on the target oxidation states. Photoelectrochemical measurements under simulated AM1.5 illumination using Euas an electron acceptor demonstrated that the films were photoactive and had an average internal quantum efficiency IQE of 12 .

For exemplary embodiments using a trilayer strategy the method involves depositing a stack of 3 binary metal sulfides i.e. CuS ZnS and SnS and then mixing by a post deposition heat treatment in argon. In one implementation the trilayer strategy works by depositing thick order 10 nm layers of binary sulfides and then mixing them by thermal annealing. In various embodiments the number of cycles for deposition of each component is greater than or equal to one. The number of cycles and the thickness of the layers may various in implentations from 1 cycle or about 1 Angstrom to 1000 s of cycles or grater than 100s of nanometers in thickness For the trilayer strategy the notation substrate xCuS ySnS zZnS is used to describe a trilayer stack consisting of x cycles of CuS deposited on the substrate followed by y cycles of SnSand z cycles of ZnS. Using this sequence the metals were deposited in their target oxidation states and their ratios could be controlled through the cycle ratios. After annealing the example films tested exhibit Raman scattering spectra XRD spectra and an absorption coefficient consistent with CZTS. For the tested examples CZTS was photoactive by PEC measurements and exhibited an internal quantum efficiency of approximately 12 at 0.6 V vs. Ag AgCl under simulated AM1.5 illumination for photoreduction of Eu III .

For exemplary embodiments using a supercycle strategy the method involves cycles of binary metal sulfides and is repeated many times to form the film. For the supercycle strategy the notation substrate n xCuS ySnS zZnS means that a sequence of x cycles of CuS followed by y cycles of SnSand z cycles of ZnS was repeated n times to form the film. In various implementations the number of cycles for each deposition in the sequence the x y and z of the above nomenclature is at least one and the number of sequences n in the above nomenclature is at least two. The cycle ratios can be tuned to control composition. Photoelectrochemical PEC characterization of the films revealed that they were photoactive. Although the examples included herein provide evidence of photoactivity it should be understood that the photoactivity can be optimized or a complete all solid state device can be fabricated. The supercycle strategy is promising for synthesizing crystalline CZTS as deposited but it has been observed that the rule of mixtures does not apply. It is believed that the nucleation behavior must first be mapped out in detail to optimize the composition.

In one aspect the general process for synthesis of the chalcogenides may be viewed as for order f n xCuS ySnS zZnS wherein n is the number of times the parenthetical process is repeated and the process in the parenthesis is x cycles of CuS followed by y cycles of SnSand then z cycle of ZnS. The trilayer strategy is a special case where n 1. The supercycle strategy is when n 1.

Experimental results are hereinafter presented regarding embodiments utilizing the trilayer strategy and the supercycle strategy. It should be appreciated that such embodiments are provided as illustration and are not intended to limit the scope of the invention.

Atomic layer deposition was performed in a Savannah S200 Cambridge Nanotech Cambridge Mass. customized for compatibility with HS. The reactor was integrated with a glove box although it is not believed that this is required for the results presented herein. For all depositions the hot wall chamber temperature was 135 C. The high purity nitrogen flow rate was 10 sccm and deposition was carried out in pulse mode continuous flow . Under nitrogen flow with no precursor pulsing the chamber pressure was approximately 0.5 torr. For all materials the sulfide source was 1 HS balance N. The HS was delivered to the precursor manifold through a 0.3 mm orifice Lennox Laser that was placed just upstream of the pneumatic ALD valve. The delivery pressure from the corrosive gas regulator was 18 inches of mercury gauge pressure.

The substrates used were either fused silica quartz fluorine doped SnO coated glass TEC 15 Pilkington Glass or polished silicon. The SnO coated glass is abbreviated as FTO. CuS was deposited as previously published and adapted for use on the Savannah S200. See e.g. Thimsen E. Peng Q. Martinson A. B. F. Pellin M. J. Elam J. W. 2011 23 4411 4413 incorporated herein by reference. The precursor for Cu was bis N N disec butylacetamidinato dicopper I Strem Chemicals which is abbreviated as CuDBA. The CuDBA precursor reservoir was kept at 160 C. The vapor was fed into the chamber using a nitrogen assisted vapor delivery system. The procedure to dose the CuDBA was to repeat the following steps 5 times pressurize CuDBA cylinder for 0.015 seconds using nitrogen at 25 psia wait 1.0 second for the nitrogen to equilibrate and the precursor to mix pulse the nitrogen CuDBA mixture into the chamber. One cycle of CuS was completed by first dosing CuDBA followed by a 10 second purge 1.0 second HS dose finishing with a 10 second purge.

While two groups have reported on the ALD synthesis of SnS using Sn II precursors a process for SnShas not been reported. The present invention therefore utilizes a new process. One cycle of SnSmeans a 1.0 second pulse of tetrakis dimethylamido Sn IV SnTDMA Sigma Aldrich followed by a 20.0 second nitrogen purge followed by a 1.0 second HS dose finishing with a 20.0 second nitrogen purge. The temperature of the SnTDMA reservoir was maintained at 55 C. The vapor pressure of the SnTDMA at this temperature was sufficient to feed the chemical from the cylinder to the chamber with no assistance.

For ZnS the well known process employing diethyl zinc DEZ Sigma Aldrich and HS was used. The diethyl zinc was kept at room temperature. One cycle of ZnS consisted of a 0.015 second pulse of DEZ followed by a 20.0 second purge followed by a 1.0 second HS pulse finishing with a 20.0 second purge.

Select films were annealed under argon in a tube furnace of 1 internal diameter. The flow rate of argon was 0.33 lpm. The temperature was ramped up to the set point over a period of 50 minutes allowed to soak for the specified time and then cooled at the natural rate of the system back to below 150 C. before sample removal. The cooling step took approximately 30 minutes.

X ray fluorescence XRF ED2000 Oxford Instruments was used to quantify composition. Calculations were performed using the Berkeley Lab X Ray Interactions With Matter tool to verify that XRF measurements were performed in the thin film limit using a fixed angle of 45 in the energy range from 2 to 10 keV. All samples had a thickness90 in the energy range of interest. Samples for XRF were deposited on fused silica quartz to minimize interference from substrate impurities. The XRF standards were a 40.7 nm Cu metal film for Cu 40.7 nm Sn metal film for Sn and 22 nm ZnS film for Zn and S . Raman spectroscopy was performed using a Renishaw Ramascope spectrometer with a 633 nm laser. Raman spectroscopy was performed on samples deposited on both quartz and FTO. The substrate did not have an apparent effect on the Raman scattering spectra. X ray diffraction XRD Rigaku minflex was carried out in 2 mode on samples deposited on quartz. Cross section scanning electron microscope SEM images were taken in a Hitachi S4500 II. The substrate was quartz and the samples were coated with a thin layer

In this setup the collection depth was from 1 to 3 nm into the film. Processing of the obtained XPS spectra was performed using CasaXPS Copyright 2009 Casa Software Ltd. . All measured peaks used for quantification were corrected for inelastic scattering by first subtracting the Shirley background from the raw spectra followed by fitting of the peaks using asymmetric pseudo Voigt peaks with different relative content of Gaussian and Lorentzian components that were optimized for the best fit. PEC measurements were carried out in a 3 electrode configuration using an Ag AgCl in saturated KCl reference electrode. The electrolyte was 0.1M Eu III NO in a supporting electrolyte of 1M KCl. The active area on the photoelectrode was 1.7 cm. The sample was illuminated using a 300 W arc lamp equipped with an AM1.5 and ultra violet UV filter. The output from the lamp was calibrated using a silicon photodiode by the procedure outlined in Seaman C. H. 1982 29 291 298 to simulate the AM1.5 condition 100 mW cm .

Using the noted experimental setup certain embodiments of the present invention were tested. There are 6 possible deposition orders that the binary sulfides can be deposited by the trilayer strategy 

It has been discovered that only one of these ALD reaction sequences works for the binary processes to form the desired CZTS structure. Three failure modes were identified. The first is nucleation failure which means a given binary metal sulfide does not grow to an appreciable extent on the layer deposited before it. The second failure mode is facile ion exchange between the film and the gas phase precursor. For ion exchange one of the volatile chemical precursors reacts with the film already on the substrate to cause a bulk transformation in the preexisting thin film. It has previously been reported regarding two such ion exchange reactions relevant to the CZTS system which were demonstrated by isolating the interaction between the organometallic precursor vapor and thin film CuS Zn CH ZnS 2Cu CH 1 ZnS CuDBA CuS ZnDBA 2 

For reaction 1 the DEZ reacts with the CuS to form ZnS and the Cu is reduced to Cu metal and reaction 2 the ZnS reacts with the CuDBA resulting in conversion to CuS and astonishingly a complete removal of Zn from the film with no change in sulfur areal density. The third and final mode is stability failure that a given compound is unstable on a particular surface.

Nucleation failure occurred for the deposition of CuS on substrates that had a preexisting SnSfilm on them where SnSdenotes a film formed by the SnTDMA HS process not necessarily the stoichiometry. This will be illustrated qualitatively by analyzing the XRF spectra presented in . The Speak was present but has been omitted for clarity. Peaks at the energy of the Cuand Culines were observed for 167 cycles of CuS on a quartz substrate as expected . For the sequence quartz 800SnS 167CuS 230ZnS Sn and Zn were observed in the XRF spectra but there was a conspicuous absence of Cu. Thus it can be said that the CuS did not nucleate on the quartz SnSsurface under these conditions. Therefore sequence a can be eliminated since the film contained no Cu so CZTS formation was impossible. Sequence c fails by similar reasoning given the XRF spectra for quartz 230ZnS 800SnS 167CuS . It was expected that sequence b would fail by the ion exchange reaction 2 but in fact no copper was observed in the film. Therefore given the absence of Cu in the XRF spectra for quartz 800SnS 230ZnS 167CuS in sequence b resulted in nucleation failure on the quartz SnS ZnS surface.

Sequences d quartz ZnS CuS SnSand e quartz CuS ZnS SnSboth failed by ion exchange via reactions 2 and 1 respectively. For sequence d the Zn was completely removed from the film after depositing the CuS. This can be seen qualitatively in the XRF spectra of . After deposition of 167 cycles of CuS on the quartz 230ZnS surface no Zn was observed by XRF in the sample. Furthermore the area of the CuXRF peak in the quartz 230ZnS 167CuS sample was significantly larger than in the case of quartz 167CuS indicating more Cu was added to the film than would be expected if only a CuS film were deposited. Thus given the present results and previous reported work it is clear that sequence d fails by reaction 2 .

Sequence e failed by the ion exchange reaction 1 . This can be seen by examining the areal densities for Cu and Zn presented in Table 1. For a sample of sequence e the Zn areal density was more than 2 times larger than what would be expected based on the cycle numbers and ALD growth rate Table 1 consistent with reaction 1 . The Zn areal density for sequence e was higher than what would be expected based on the ion exchange with CuS and the deposition of a flat ZnS film. There was more Zn in the film because the surface area increased due to the violent nature of reaction 1 which caused delamination and increased the amount of ZnS deposited and therefore the areal density Zn measured by XRF.

One possibility considered with regard to the ion exchange reactions 1 and 2 is whether the reactions between the volatile precursor and preexisting thin film can be suppressed if a film of the second component i.e. ZnS for reaction 1 or CuS for reaction 2 is being deposited concurrently. Both and Table 1 indicate the negative.

The only remaining sequence is f and it will be shown that it works to obtain a composition controllable through the cycle ratios. In order to utilize an ALD process for the synthesis using sequence f SnSis needed. However an ALD process for SnShas not been reported. One embodiment of the present invention includes a novel process for producing SnSfor use in ALD. A SnTDMA HS process provides viable SnSfor use in ALD processes. Initial observations indicate a dependence of the S Sn ratio on the chemical composition of the substrate. Using the SnTDMA HS process stoichiometric crystalline SnScould be deposited on quartz CuS however films deposited on quartz or quartz ZnS were sulfur deficient. Plotted in is the ratio of sulfur associated with Sn S Sn for SnSfilms deposited on quartz quartz 230ZnS and quartz 167CuS. The value of S Sn was determined by the following equation S S M 3 where S is the total measured areal density of sulfur M i is the areal density of the other metal either Cu or Zn and k is the stoichiometric ratio of sulfur to metal in the other metal sulfide k 0.5 for CuS and k 1 for ZnS .

It can be seen from that only the SnSdeposited on CuS had an S Sn Sn ratio of 2 while both of the others were sulfur deficient. XRD patterns are presented in . The quartz 230CuS sample exhibited peaks for the 002 and 004 reflections of hexagonal chalcocite as expected for this ALD process. The quartz 800SnSexhibited virtually no features in the XRD pattern indicating that it contained a large amorphous fraction likely caused by the sulfur deficiency illustrated in . The quartz 167CuS 800SnSexhibited a strong XRD peak for the 100 reflection of SnS. The peaks observed for CuS were absent from the quartz 167CuS 800SnSsample which it is believed may be a result of extensive mixing between the phases. XPS measurements revealed significant copper content on the surface of the film for the case of as deposited silicon 190CuS 800SnS. The survey spectra used for quantification is presented in . The measurement probed only the near surface region 1 to 3 nm away from the vacuum film interface. The thickness of the SnSlayer based on the areal atomic density determined by XRF measurements was 46 nm. Cu diffused up through the SnSlayer to the surface of the film. Such facile Cu diffusion in SnShas been observed previously and is consistent with the disappearance of the CuS peaks in the XRD spectrum for the 167CuS 800SnSbilayer . For the surface of the film the Cu atomic concentration based on Sn was estimated to be 10 by the standard CasaXPS procedure using core level Cu 2p and Sn 3d lines.

While XRD demonstrates crystallinity many of the binary and ternary metal sulfides in the Cu Zn Sn S system have reflections at nominally the same angles such as 2 28.5 often rendering XRD results ambiguous. Raman scattering is a more conclusive characterization technique for the CZTS system despite the drawback of no centralized vetted database for peak assignments. The Raman scattering spectra of quartz 230CuS quartz 800SnS quartz 230ZnS 800SnSand quartz 167CuS 800SnSare plotted in . The quartz 230CuS sample was featureless in the spectral range of interest. The quartz 800SnSexhibited a broad peak centered at approximately 173 cmand two sharper peaks at 189 cmand 221 cm. These peaks as well as the small peak at 288 cm can be reasonably assigned to SnS. The Raman scattering spectra of the quartz 230ZnS 800SnSsample was similar to the SnSon quartz. Considering that S Sn Sn 1.0 for these samples the SnSdeposited on quartz and quartz ZnS was likely a mixture of SnS and amorphous SnS. The quartz 167CuS 800SnSsample exhibited a sharp peak at 313 cm consistent with SnS. The shoulders to either side of the SnSpeak could be assigned to CuSnS although the one on the low wavenumber side had a low intensity. The conclusion is that the CuS is needed to stabilize the SnS and therefore this layer is described as copper stabilized tin disulfide.

Sequence f was successful in depositing each of the metal sulfides with the target stoichiometry and the metal ratios were controlled by the cycle ratios for each process. Plotted in is an XRF spectrum for a quartz 190CuS 800SnS 290ZnS trilayer. All four elements were clearly present. The areal densities for various films are presented in Table 2. The error associated with each value was a result of the background subtraction prior to peak integration. All of the samples exhibited Metal S ratios expected for the oxidation states Cu I Zn II Sn IV and S II . Samples were deposited with different cycle numbers and different cycle ratios but the growth per cycle for each of the binary components was unaffected meaning the cycle number for each component was much larger than the nucleation delay. If a large decrease in the cycle number were made such that it was no longer much greater than the nucleation delay a significantly smaller average growth per cycle would be expected. For the samples containing copper the CuS growth per cycle was the same within the experimental error of XRF and the average was equal to 0.49 nmol cmcycle. Similarly all of the samples containing Zn exhibited the same growth per cycle of 0.40 nmol cmcycle demonstrating that ZnS growth on CuS SnSwas virtually identical to that on quartz. The SnSshowed an average growth per cycle of 0.14 nmol cmcycleunder these conditions.

Since the oxidation states were the target ones for CZTS and the growth per cycle of the binary components was constant the cycle numbers could be tuned to adjust the metal ratios. The general process for synthesis of a chalcogenides is n xCuS ySnS zZnS . In certain implementations the content of copper could be increased by increasing the value of x for given constant values of y and z. The content of copper could be deceased by decreasing the value of x for given constant values of y and z. A similar strategy could be used to increase or decrease the content of zinc or tin. That is to adjust tin adjust y for given x and z and to adjust zinc adjust z for given x and y. This can be seen first by examining the last two samples in Table 2. For the cycle ratios CuS SnS 0.209 and ZnS SnS 0.288 Cu Sn 1.45 and Zn Sn 0.87. To get closer to the metal ratios often used for CZTS absorbers in photovoltaic thin film solar cells using CuS SnS 0.238 and ZnS SnS 0.363 results in a Cu Sn 1.88 and Zn Sn 1.16. Plotted in is the measured Cu Sn areal atomic density ratio for different CuS SnScycle ratios at constant ZnS SnS 0.363 and constant 800 SnScycles. As expected the areal atomic density ratio Zn Sn remained constant and Cu Sn increased with increasing CuS SnScycle ratio. Therefore it has been demonstrated that the trilayer strategy using sequence f was effective to place the metal and sulfur atoms on the substrate in the correct oxidization state and the metal ratios could be controlled using the ratios of the number of cycles for each binary process.

The trilayer strategy is effective for placing the metal and sulfur atoms on the substrate but as deposited the elements are not mixed or crystallized. In one embodiment crystallization of the CZTS can be accomplished by a thermal treatment of the as deposited CuS SnS ZnS trilayer. In one implementation the annealing both mixes and crystallizes the materials. If the plotted in are the Raman spectra of a 190CuS 800SnS 290ZnS trilayer before and after annealing for 2 hours at 450 C. in argon. As deposited the trilayer exhibited a prominent peak at 313 cmthat was assigned to SnS and a well defined shoulder at 349 cmconsistent with CuSnS3. After annealing in Ar at 450 C. for 2 hours the main peak shifted to 336 cmand the shoulder shifted to 373 cm consistent with the formation of CZTS.

The Raman spectra in for the annealed sample closely resembles that previously found for a non ALD CuZnSnSfilm that achieved a power conversion efficiency of 7.3 for photovoltaic solar cells. The XRD pattern for the same 90 CuS 800SnS 290ZnS trilayer before and after annealing is plotted in . As deposited the XRD pattern was consistent with the 100 reflection at 28.3o of SnSobserved for quartz CuS SnS . After annealing the peaks become sharper and in addition to the prominent peak for the 112 reflection of CZTS at 28.5 small peaks for the 200 and 220 reflections of this phase also become visible. A cross sectional SEM image of a 190CuS 800SnS 290ZnS trilayer sample on quartz after annealing is shown in . The film was compact continuous and 90 nm in thickness.

The absorption coefficient calculated using the equation ln T 1 R d where T is the transmittance R is the reflectance and d is the film thickness is plotted in . The absorption onset was approximately 895 nm consistent with Eg 1.4 eV. The XRF spectra showed a slight decrease in S after annealing for 3 hours at 450 C. in Ar but the 1 standard deviation confidence intervals before and after annealing overlapped so the difference was insignificant.

After annealing the CZTS was photoactive that is it has been observed to produce photocurrent with a reasonable internal quantum efficiency. Plotted in is the photocurrent density of a CZTS film annealed in argon at 450 C. for 1 hour. The electrolyte contained 0.1M Euas an electron acceptor and 1M KCl supporting electrolyte. The area exposed to the electrolyte was 1.7 cm. was measured at an applied potential of 0.6 V vs. Ag AgCl. Before illumination very little dark current was measured J 0.06 A cm . After opening the shutter to illuminate the film through the semiconductor electrolyte interface a large decrease in current to 1.4 mA cmwas observed consistent with the expected behavior of a p type photocathode. The photocurrent magnitude decreased slightly with time under illumination. For subsequent light pulses the initial photocurrent was higher in magnitude than the last photocurrent measurement of the previous pulse data not shown here indicating that the 20 decrease in photocurrent in could have been due to consumption of the Eu in the near surface region under illumination. In the dark the Eu concentration in the near surface region increased as it was replenished. Over longer time scales the photocurrent magnitude at the end of subsequent pulses decreased slightly with time. Plotted in is the normalized photocurrent at the end of a 6 second light pulse minus the dark current immediately after. The time between light pulses was approximately 10s. It can be seen from that over the course of the 100 second experiment the photocurrent magnitude decreased by approximately 6 indicating that the CZTS film was slightly unstable under these reducing conditions in the aqueous electrolyte. While the aqueous electrolyte is sufficient to demonstrate photoactivity clearly an operating device would require and all solid state configuration. The theoretical maximum AM1.5 photocurrent from a semiconductor with a 1.4 eV band gap is 33 mA cm. The absorption depth from the annealed trilayer in at 850 nm was 1.69 m much greater than the film thickness of 0.09 m. When the absorption efficiency spectra i.e. a 1 T R for the film in was integrated over the AM1.5 spectra the maximum theoretical photocurrent was 12.1 mA cm. Since the initial photocurrent was approximately 1.4 mA cm the average internal quantum efficiency was approximately 12 . The external quantum efficiency spectra i.e. incident photon to current efficiency or IPCE was not measured because of the photocurrent instability illustrated in . Wavelengths measured at later times would be biased towards smaller values compared to the wavelengths measured first therefore distorting the spectra.

The photoactivity of CZTS is strongly dependent on the annealing conditions and photoelectrochemistry depends on the surface. For instance it has been reported that CuZnSnSdecomposes via a first order reaction into CuS ZnS SnS S where the SnS and S are both potentially volatile depending on the temperature. Even though the metal and sulfur ratios may be correct for the present films annealing in Ar might have partially decomposed the material thereby inhibiting activity. Therefore in one embodiment the annealing is not done in the presence of Ar. Optimizing the annealing temperature and including SnS or S in the furnace has been shown on other samples to increase the performance. In certain implementations the reaction environment is an inert gas such as N He Ne Ar air hydrogen mixtures such as diluted or pure hydrogen and gaseous environments that contain any of the following sulfur S selenium Se tin sulfide SnS or SnS tin selenide SnSe or SnS germanium sulfide GeSor GeS and germanium selenide GeSeor GeSe .

In contrast to the trilayer embodiment the supercycle embodiment bears more resemblance to the conventional procedure to synthesize nanolaminates and nanoalloys by atomic layer deposition. In the supercycle strategy instead of depositing 3 thick binary layers and then mixing them many thinner layers are deposited in sequence and therefore the film should start off better mixed and require less annealing to form the CZTS. Thus generally for the supercycle strategy the x y and z in the process scheme will be smaller than in the trilayer process but the number of sequences that is n in the process scheme will be greater than 1. For embodiments of the trilayer process based on sequence f 190CuS 800SnS 290ZnS an analogous supercycle process would be 10 19CuS 80SnS 29ZnS . That is repeating the process 19CuS 80SnS 23ZnS 10 times in sequence. Raman spectra for an as deposited supercycle film of the process 10 19CuS 80SnS 29ZnS as well as 190CuS 800SnS 290ZnS before and after annealing are presented in . The as deposited supercycle film exhibited a Raman scattering spectra very similar to the annealed CZTS except that the peaks were much lower intensity and wider as one would expect for a material with very small nanometer sized grains.

The film thickness however was substantially reduced. This can be seen in Table 3 where the areal densities of each atom were reduced by a factor of 4 in the supercycle film compared to the trilayer film despite the same total number of cycles of each binary process. This indicates that each layer had a nucleation delay and so the average growth per cycle from the trilayer films cannot necessarily be used to predict the growth per cycle of the supercycle film. The measured sulfur areal density of 182 12 nmol cmfor the 10 19CuS 80SnS 29ZnS supercycle film is not statistically significantly less than the expected amount if all of the metals were in their target oxidation states which would be 213 24 nmol cm given the uncertainty in the areal density of each metal. The metal ratios however are different from the trilayer film. For the 190CuS 800SnS 290ZnS trilayer film Cu Sn 1.88 and Zn Sn 1.16 while for the 10 19CuS 80SnS 29ZnS film Cu Sn 0.96 and Zn Sn 0.52. In both cases the Cu Zn ratios are similar 1.62 0.15 in the trilayer case and 1.84 0.15 in the supercycle case. When a supercycle film was deposited using the process 10 19CuS 40SnS 31ZnS then the measured S 56 0.15 nmol cmwas much less than the expected sulfur concentration of 119 13 nmol cmif all of the metals were in their target oxidation states. The films also became delaminated in some places. Thus 40 cycles of SnSseems insufficient to prevent ion exchange and reduction of the film most likely caused by DEZ. The Raman scattering spectra for the as deposited supercycle film presented in is encouraging. Thus one embodiment of the present invention relates to a low temperature route for CZTS crystalline synthesis with an adjusted pulse sequence to produce the correct composition if nucleation behavior for each binary process was mapped out in detail since the rule of mixtures clearly does not apply to this system.

In one embodiment the ALD methods of the present invention may be used in the creation of a device such as for photovoltaic applications. illustrates a conventional CZTS CIGS device stack where the CZTS layer may be deposited through use of the methods described above rather than the methods previously used as described in the Background to achieve improved results.

The foregoing description of illustrative embodiments has been presented for purposes of illustration and of description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or limiting with respect to the precise form disclosed and modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teachings or may be acquired from practice of the disclosed embodiments. It is intended that the scope of the invention be defined by the claims appended hereto and their equivalents.

