---

title: Sharing information associated with power generation devices via a file system on a network
abstract: Certain embodiments herein are directed to transferring information between devices on a network using a filing system such as the WebDAV file system. In one embodiment, a sensor device may communicate with a computer server including a WebDAV file system to obtain information for various purposes, such as for software upgrades or resolution of software bugs. The computer server may receive data from a sensor associated with a home, business, or power generation equipment, or other asset. The computer server may further prepare the data for transmission to a filing system, which may include calling one or more WebDAV functions. The data may be used to determine additional data that may be used by the computer device that sent the data, in one embodiment. The data, as well as the additional data, may be stored in a WebDAV file system and/or transmitted to a remote computing device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09128889&OS=09128889&RS=09128889
owner: General Electric Company
number: 09128889
owner_city: Schenectady
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121207
---
Embodiments of the disclosure relate generally to remote file access and more particularly to sharing information associated with power generation devices via a file system on a network.

A sensor device such as a smart meter or utility meter may rely upon computer servers or other devices on a network for information to perform its functions. To store this information the sensor devices may also rely upon vast amounts of memory at the sensor devices. Existing systems and methods may struggle both with transferring information to and from sensor devices and with storing information at sensor devices. For example the transfer of information between computer servers and sensor devices may be secured by relatively costly complex software and configurations that may slow the speed of file transfer and burden the deployment and administration of information sharing between sensors and computer servers. Other systems may rely upon large amounts of memory located at a sensor device for storing the information a sensor may need to perform its functions which may also be relatively costly and slow to deploy.

Some or all of the above needs and or problems may be addressed by certain embodiments of the disclosure. Certain embodiments may include systems and methods for sharing data between a sensor and a file system server such as a WebDAV server. According to one embodiment there is disclosed a system including a sensor configured to receive data and a network device configured to connect to a network. The system may also include at least one processor and at least one memory that stores computer executable instructions. The processor may be configured to execute the computer executable instructions in the memory to receive from the sensor data associated with an item prepare the data associated with the item for interaction with a filing system and send via the network the data associated with the item to the filing system.

According to another embodiment there is disclosed a method for receiving from a sensor data associated with an item preparing the data associated with the item for interaction with a filing system and sending with a network device the data associated with the item to the filing system.

According to a further embodiment there is disclosed a system including a sensor configured to receive data associated with at least one of a building a residence a business a factory a power plant a turbine a condenser an automobile or an asset of at least one of a residence a business a factory an automobile or a power plant. The system may also include a network device configured to connect to a network. The system may further include at least one processor and at least one memory that stores computer executable instructions. The processor may be configured to execute the computer executable instructions in the memory to receive from the sensor data associated with at least one device prepare the data for interaction with a filing system store the data in the filing system and provide via the network information associated with the filing system to a computing device.

Illustrative embodiments will now be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which some but not all embodiments of the disclosure are shown. The disclosure may be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will satisfy applicable legal requirements.

Illustrative embodiments of the disclosure are directed to among other things storing and retrieving information over a network using a file system such as a web distributed authoring and versioning WebDAV file system. Information stored in a WebDAV type file system may be accessed and or updated via a WebDAV type protocol. According to certain embodiments herein a WebDAV file system may reside on a file system server on a network while the WebDAV protocol may be located on a sensor. Such a configuration may therefore allow the sensor to communicate with the WebDAV file system to retrieve information from and store information in the WebDAV file system. The information stored in the WebDAV file system may be measurements performed by the sensor traces or other results associated with debugging software that may not be operating properly on the sensor information associated with upgrading the firmware or libraries in the sensor or system or activity logs including information associated with the performance of the sensor as non limited examples.

As an example to upgrade the current firmware version of a sensor a file system server that may initiate the upgrade may require certain information from the sensor. The sensor via the WebDAV protocol may send the information to the WebDAV file system stored at the file system server. Upon obtaining the information the file system server may identify information that may be needed to perform the upgrade of the sensor and store the information in the WebDAV file system. The sensor may retrieve the identified information to a memory at the sensor and use it to perform the upgrade. Other examples in addition to upgrading the sensor s software or firmware may exist in other embodiments. These examples may involve a filing system other than a WebDAV file system. Additional configurations may also exist in other embodiments. For example a sensor may include a filing system such as a WebDAV file system whereas the file system server may include the WebDAV protocol thereby enabling the file system server to access and or update files stored in the WebDAV file system at the sensor.

The technical effects of certain embodiments herein may include but are not limited to cost effective utilization of sensors including sensors associated with power generation equipment. For example sensors may be upgraded and or receive information for their operation without purchasing additional memory for the sensors. Additionally information may be transferred between a sensor and a file system server or other devices securely without adding relatively complex encryption based software that may slow the transfer of information as well as the time to deploy sensors configured to support such information transfer.

As used herein the term device may refer to any processor based device capable of executing computer executable instructions to perform the functions described in embodiments herein. Example of computing devices may include a sensor a computer server a mainframe a web server a personal computer a mobile device etc.

As described herein a sensor may measure a physical quantity and convert it into a signal. The converted signal may be analyzed and or processed to determine consumption a condition or other information associated with an item. Thus a sensor may measure data associated with an item. Example items may include but are not limited to a building a residence a business a factory an automobile a power plant a turbine a condenser or other power generation equipment assets. Examples of the sensor may include but are not limited to a power consumption meter a smart meter an International Electrotechnical Commission IEC meter an electricity meter a gas meter a water meter a district heating meter a remote monitoring sensor an actuator or various other measurement meters or devices. illustrates two sensors . Fewer or more numbers and or types of sensors may exist in other embodiments.

The sensor may be configured to receive data stored in a file system located on a network device configured to connect to a network such as a file system server . Such a configuration may include hardware devices such as a non volatile memory a volatile memory a processor and a network interface card NIC among other devices in other configurations. The sensor may also include an operating system OS and application programming interfaces APIs such as a file system API a network stack API and a WebDAV API as well as other software in other configurations.

The processor may be implemented as appropriate in hardware software firmware or combinations thereof. Software or firmware implementations of the processor may include computer executable or machine executable instructions written in any suitable programming language to perform the various functions described.

The non volatile memory may store file systems and program instructions that are loadable and executable on the processor as well as data generated during the execution of these programs. Examples of the non volatile memory may include read only memory ROM flash memory etc. In one embodiment the non volatile memory may store firmware and or configuration files for controlling the behavior of the firmware. The configuration files and or information in the configuration files may be shared between the sensor and the file system server to facilitate an upgrade of the sensor in one embodiment. According to one configuration one or more of the application program modules and the operating system may be loaded in the non volatile memory .

The operating system OS may be the Real Time Operating System RTOS in one embodiment. An RTOS operating system may serve real time application requests such as those that may be received from the application as will be described in greater detail below.

The volatile memory may store file systems program instructions and data associated with the program instructions. The volatile memory may also store temporary files or other less permanent information located at a sensor or other device. In one embodiment the volatile memory may include random access memory RAM or dynamic random access memory DRAM as non limited examples. Other embodiments may involve various other types of memory.

The application may perform various functions for the sensor such as upgrading the sensor applying software patches to address performance issues associated with the sensor or other functions that may rely on information stored in a filing system such as the WebDAV file system. According to an example configuration the application may communicate with a file system API as indicated by double arrow 1 to access information stored in the non volatile memory . In one aspect the file system API may communicate with a file system driver interface in the RTOS OS to allow the application to access a file system or other data structure in the non volatile memory as indicated by double arrow 7 . The application may also communicate with a network stack API as indicated by double arrow 3 to establish a socket connection between the sensor and other devices such as the file system server . The network stack API may include one or more socket libraries accessible at the application level to enable the application to establish such a connection.

In one embodiment the WebDAV API may interface with the application the file system API and the network stack API to enable these modules to communicate with a WebDAV file system. For example the application may call functions in the WebDAV API as indicated by double arrow 2 to directly access a WebDAV file system. As another example the file system API may include a driver interface for communicating with the WebDAV API to access a WebDAV file system as indicated by double arrow 4 . In one embodiment the file system API may determine that the type of file being accessed is a WebDAV file and may subsequently call the appropriate WebDAV API function to access the file either locally at the sensor as indicated by the double arrow 5 or on a network as indicated by double arrow 6 . To access a file stored in a WebDAV file system on a network the WebDAV API may call one or more functions in the network stack API to establish a connection over the network to a file system server storing the WebDAV file system for example to enable the sensor s access to the desired file in the WebDAV file system. A network driver in the network stack API may configure a network interface card NIC as indicated by double arrow 8 to connect the sensor to a WebDAV file system stored at the file system server over a network as indicated by double arrow 9 in one embodiment.

As described above the file system server may store a filing system. In one embodiment the file system server or another computing device storing the filing system may be located remotely from a sensor . In one aspect of the embodiment the computing device may include a WebDAV server that provides WebDAV functionality to the sensor via the network. The computing device e.g. the file system server may provide via the network information associated with the filing system to another computing device in one embodiment.

According to certain embodiments the file system server may retrieve information from the data manager and store it in the WebDAV file system where it may be accessed by the sensor or other devices connected to the network . The file system server may identify information associated with a sensor and store the information in a file for access by the sensor . In one embodiment the file system server may store information for multiple sensors in a respective directory such that each sensor may retrieve information relevant to the sensor. The stored information may include information that may be used to configure the operation of the sensor error and or activity logs associated with the sensor activities operational data associated with a sensor s operation or other information that may indicate the status or performance of a sensor.

In one example such information may be used by the file system server to determine whether a sensor should be upgraded and if so what version of software to install at the sensor. As another example operational data may be used by the file system server to debug software that may not be operating properly in a sensor . The file system server may use results from the debugging to determine a software patch to repair the sensor . As will be discussed in greater detail below the file system server may include one or more software modules to provide such functionality.

In some embodiments the WebDAV file system and various information related to the sensors may be stored in a data manager . The data manager may be configured to allow access from the file system server and various other devices via the network according to one embodiment. In another embodiment the information stored by the data manager may be stored by the file system server .

In other embodiments the WebDAV file system described above may be stored on a sensor while the file system server may include software and or program modules similar to those described above on the sensor that may be used to retrieve and or store information in the WebDAV file system located at a sensor .

A memory may store program instructions that are loadable and executable on the processor as well as data generated during the execution of these programs. Depending on the configuration and type of computing environment a memory may be volatile such as random access memory RAM and or non volatile such as read only memory ROM flash memory etc. . In one embodiment the memory may be similar to the memory or described in .

The computer device may also include additional removable storage and or non removable storage including but not limited to magnetic storage optical disks and or tape storage. The disk drives and their associated computer readable media may provide non volatile storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computing devices. In some implementations the memory may include multiple different types of memory such as static random access memory SRAM dynamic random access memory DRAM or ROM.

The memory removable storage and non removable storage are all examples of computer readable storage media. For example computer readable storage media may include volatile and non volatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Additional types of computer storage media that may be present include but are not limited to programmable random access memory PRAM SRAM DRAM RAM ROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology compact disc read only memory CD ROM digital versatile discs DVDs or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tapes magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the computer device. Combinations of any of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

In other embodiments however computer readable communication media may include computer readable instructions program modules or other data transmitted within a data signal such as a carrier wave or other transmission. As used herein however computer readable storage media does not include computer readable communication media.

The computing environment may also contain one or more communication connections that allow the computer device to communicate with other devices such as a sensor or other equipment associated with power generation as non limiting examples. The communication connections may be established via a wired and or wireless connection between a computer device and an asset. The connection may involve a network such as the Internet or may be a direct connection i.e. excluding a network between the computer device and the equipment according to various embodiments. The computing environment may also include one or more input devices such as a keyboard mouse pen voice input device and touch input device. It may also include one or more output devices such as a display printer and speakers.

Turning to the contents of the memory in more detail the memory may include an operating system and one or more application programs or services for implementing the features and aspects described herein including a data receiving module a data preparation module a WebDAV module a data storage module and a data transmission module . In one embodiment the devices and application programs shown in may be associated with a computer server such as the file system server .

The data receiving module may receive information such as information from a sensor in . Examples of information that may be received include data associated with an item such as a building a residence a business a factory another facility an automobile or a power generation asset such as a turbine a condenser or a power plant. The data may include measurements associated with the consumption of a utility at a residence or building or other information that may be sensed or collected by a sensor coupled to an item in one embodiment.

A data preparation module may prepare data such as the data received from a sensor associated with an item for interaction with a filing system. In one aspect of an embodiment the filing system may include a computing device that may be located at a remote location from the sensor. To prepare data the data preparation module may call at least one WebDAV method with the data to for example copy data to a WebDAV file system delete data from a WebDAV file system or protect data in a WebDAV file system by locking a file associated with the data as non limiting examples.

In some embodiments the data preparation module may identify additional information to store in a file system along with received data. For example the data preparation module may access a database e.g. the data manager to identify information associated with the received data. In one example the identified information may be stored in a directory associated with a sensor where the sensor may access the information and use it to perform various functions such as upgrading the sensor s operating system or repairing a failing portion of a software module running in a sensor.

The data storage module may store information in a filing system such as a WebDAV file system. As described the data storage module may store the information in a directory or subdirectory associated with a sensor from which the information was received. In one embodiment the directory structure of a WebDAV file system may be mirrored on a sensor such that when the sensor sends information to the WebDAV file system a reference to a directory for storing the information on the WebDAV file system may be provided. The data storage module may store the information in the directory indicated by the reference in one embodiment.

A data transmission module may transmit information to a device located remotely from a filing system such as a WebDAV file system. For example upon determining e.g. by the data preparation module that certain information is required to upgrade a sensor the data transmission module may transmit the information to the sensor where an application e.g. application in may use the information to upgrade the sensor.

The WebDAV module may include an API such as the WebDAV API associated with the sensor in . The WebDAV module may therefore enable a computing device such as the file system server to access information and or send information to a WebDAV file system stored on a remote device such as the sensor or the data manager according to various embodiments.

In this particular implementation the process may begin at block where data associated with an item may be received e.g. by the data receiving module . The data may be prepared for interaction with a filing system such as a WebDAV file system at block . As described such preparation may include calling one or more WebDAV methods associated with the information. One such function may include storing the information e.g. via the data storage module . Numerous other methods may be called such as those associated with establishing a network connection between devices on a network copying information to a file system and or deleting a file from a file system as non limiting examples. The WebDAV methods may be called at block .

Information may be sent to a WebDAV file system e.g. via the data transmission module at block . In one example a computing device such as the file system server or the sensor may transmit information e.g. via a data transmission module to a remote device such as a data manager that may store a WebDAV file system. According to various embodiments any of the sensor the file system server or the data manager may include a filing system e.g. a WebDAV file system while at least one of the other devices may include the WebDAV protocol to configure the devices to act as a WebDAV file system client that may share files with the computing device storing the filing system. Numerous other configurations and examples may exist in other embodiments.

Illustrative systems and methods for transmitting information between a sensor and another computing device on a network are described above. Some or all of these systems and methods may but need not be implemented at least partially by configurations such as those described in . It should be understood that certain acts in the methods may be rearranged modified and or omitted entirely depending on the circumstances. Also any of the acts described above with respect to any method may be implemented by any number of processors or other computing devices based on instructions stored on one or more computer readable storage media.

