---

title: Registration of media content with a content distribution network for transfer at a later time
abstract: Embodiments disclosed herein provide systems and methods for registering media content with a CDN for transfer at a later time. In a particular embodiment, a method of operating a wireless communication device to deliver media content to a plurality of user devices over a Content Distribution Network (CDN) is provided. The method comprises transferring an upload registration request to the CDN that indicates the wireless communication device and an upload time. The method further comprises receiving an upload confirmation transferred from the CDN confirming the upload registration request and powering down after receiving the upload confirmation. The method further comprises powering up and obtaining the media content. After powering up and during the upload time, the method comprises transferring the media content for delivery to the CDN based on the upload confirmation, wherein the CDN subsequently transfers the media content to the user devices.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08880645&OS=08880645&RS=08880645
owner: Sprint Communications Company L.P.
number: 08880645
owner_city: Overland Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120911
---
Content distribution networks CDNs store media content in content servers for efficient distribution to end users over communication networks. The media content might be video audio images documents sensor data and the like. The CDN servers are often geographically distributed and adapted to serve particular access networks. The users typically download the content in an on demand manner from the CDN. The CDN enforces distribution rules on these downloads. The distribution rules control what content can be downloaded when the content can be downloaded where the content can be downloaded and to whom the content can be downloaded in addition to other rules. Thus CDNs have an elaborate process for handling the distribution of media content to a multitude of end users over various communication networks that cover large geographic areas.

Unfortunately the techniques for uploading the content to the CDNs are not so elaborate. Media content is typically uploaded to the CDN from another computer system as opposed to the CDN generating the media itself. For example a website and all the content provided by the website may be uploaded to the CDN for distribution to user devices accessing the website through their web browsers and the Internet. A movie may be uploaded to the CDN for distribution to user media players. This upload is traditionally an on demand process whereby the uploading system contacts the CDN and uploads the media content in a single communication session. If the content upload attempt fails the uploading system typically tries the upload again at a later time.

More types of devices are capable of uploading content to a CDN than ever before. For example modern smartphones are capable of generating media content and uploading that media content to a CDN. These smartphones and other wireless devices often have a limited amount of power to operate i.e. battery power solar power etc. . In particular various sensors video cameras thermometers radars etc. now generate and transfer content for distribution over CDNs to various end users. While the present CDN upload process may work well for a video that is generated by a movie studio having a complex media computers the current CDN upload process is deficient for many other types of content uploading devices.

Embodiments disclosed herein provide systems and methods for registering media content with a CDN for transfer at a later time. In a particular embodiment a method of operating a wireless communication device to deliver media content to a plurality of user devices over a Content Distribution Network CDN is provided. The method comprises transferring an upload registration request to the CDN that indicates the wireless communication device and an upload time. The method further comprises receiving an upload confirmation transferred from the CDN confirming the upload registration request and powering down after receiving the upload confirmation. The method further comprises powering up and obtaining the media content. After powering up and during the upload time the method comprises transferring the media content for delivery to the CDN based on the upload confirmation wherein the CDN subsequently transfers the media content to the user devices.

The following description and associated figures teach the best mode of the invention. For the purpose of teaching inventive principles some conventional aspects of the best mode may be simplified or omitted. The following claims specify the scope of the invention. Note that some aspects of the best mode may not fall within the scope of the invention as specified by the claims. Thus those skilled in the art will appreciate variations from the best mode that fall within the scope of the invention. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the features described below can be combined in various ways to form multiple variations of the invention. As a result the invention is not limited to the specific examples described below but only by the claims and their equivalents.

In operation CDN provides media content to other systems and devices capable of accessing CDN either directly or through other communication networks or systems. This media content may be audio video files websites documents software or any other type of data. CDN may include a single server or a collection of servers spread throughout a communication network or collection of communication networks in order to optimally provide data to other systems and devices. For example CDN may include servers within various access networks to better provide media content to systems and devices that use each access network.

In order for CDN to provide media content the media content must first be obtained from a content source. A content source may be any type of system or device that is capable of transferring data to CDN directly or through other communication networks or systems. A content source may be a system or device that generated the content either under the direction of a user or otherwise or may be a system or device that merely stored media content in a memory system before transferring the media content to CDN .

As more content sources transfer content to CDN the resources of CDN may become less available. Similarly the resources of communication networks used by the content sources to access CDN may also become less available. Given these limited resources it may be more efficient for a content source to transfer content to CDN at one time over another. For example while a content source may be ready to transfer media content to CDN at a particular time that time may be a time of peak CDN usage. During this peak time CDN may not be able to receive the media content or the transfer of the media content to CDN may be more time consuming. Thus transferring the media content at a different time such as an off peak time may be beneficial.

Additionally many modern content sources operate on limited power sources such as battery or solar power. Thus it may be beneficial for content sources with limited power to upload media content when the limited power can be better used for powering an upload over a wireless communication interface. In a particular example a cellular phone operates on battery power and it would be beneficial to transfer media content from the cellular phone to CDN at a time that would best conserve the battery life of the cellular phone.

The upload time may be any time when wireless device is able to upload media content to CDN . The upload time may be any time extending from the time immediately after the upload registration process described herein. In some embodiments the upload time is merely a suggested time from wireless device and CDN may determine an actual upload time while considering the suggested upload time received from wireless device . Additionally the upload time may be entered by a user of wireless device or may be determined automatically by wireless device by taking into account various factors such as CDN resource usage assess network resource usage access network type power supply usage i.e. battery level solar panel output etc. or any other factor that may contribute to a desirable upload time. For example a user may enter an upload time that corresponds to wireless device being on a WIFI network rather than a cellular network and corresponds to a time when a battery power level for wireless device is expected to be high or charging.

In some embodiments the upload registration request may further indicate information about the media content to be uploaded to CDN . The media content may include an audio video file picture document website or any other type of data. Thus the information in the request may include a type of the media content a file size of the media content or any other information about the media content that may be useful to CDN . For example the file size may be useful in order for CDN to determine a best upload time for receiving a file of the indicated size and or allocate storage space in CDN to store the media content once CDN receives the media content.

After transferring the upload registration request an upload confirmation is received at wireless device from CDN confirming the upload registration request step . The upload confirmation may simply indicate that wireless device may upload the media content at the time indicated by the upload registration request. Alternatively the media content may contain other or additional instructions for wireless device to follow when uploading the media content. For example the upload confirmation may include an upload time determined by CDN an address for a particular system server in CDN to which the media content should be directed or any other information that may be useful when uploading the media content.

In some embodiments the registration steps and allow CDN to reserve resources at the determined upload time so that the resources are available to wireless device at the upload time. This ensures that wireless device will be able to upload the media content to CDN without having to wait for resources to become available.

Wireless device powers down after receiving the upload confirmation step . Powering down may completely power off of wireless device put wireless device in a standby mode put one or more communication interfaces and or processing systems of wireless device into a standby mode or any other method whereby wireless device is using less power than it would when communicating with CDN .

After powering down wireless device powers up and obtains the media content step . Wireless device may power up and power back down at times between steps and according to other operating circumstances for wireless device . The media content may be obtained from a storage system in wireless device such as flash memory or a hard disk from another system or device from a communication network from a content generation element such as a camera or microphone on wireless device or any other method of obtaining content. For example wireless device may be uploading a video captured by wireless device at the request of a user of wireless device . That video may be stored in memory on wireless device or elsewhere. Alternatively the video itself may be captured at step .

After powering up and during the upload time the media content is transferred from wireless device for delivery to CDN based on the upload confirmation wherein CDN subsequently transfers the media content to user device among other user devices step . Accordingly upon powering up wireless device the media content is obtained so that the media content can be uploaded to CDN at the upload time confirmed during the upload registration request and confirmation in steps and . Once the media content is in CDN user device and other user devices can request the media content from CDN . User device may be the same type of device as wireless device or some other computing device capable of communicating with CDN .

In some embodiments at least one rule is transferred to CDN with the upload registration request with the media content or otherwise. Each rule may indicate a time when user devices can access the media content on CDN which user devices can access the media content on CDN an inclusive or exclusive geographic area where user devices may be located to access the media content on CDN or any other rule limiting the user devices that can access the media content on CDN .

In an example of the operation in where wireless device has an alternative power source wireless device may be a measurement system having sensors located thereon. For example wireless device may be an environmental system including environmental sensors for obtaining environmental data such as temperature humidity and pressure among other types of data. Wireless device may therefore be powered by solar energy through the use of solar panels or some other type of solar energy capture apparatus so that wireless device can be left in a remote area without the need for another power source. Due to the nature of wireless communications wireless device may want to transfer data a time when the sun is providing the most energy to wireless device so that a wireless communication interface can use that power.

Accordingly wireless device registers with CDN to transfer captured environmental data to CDN at a time when the sun is most likely to be providing enough energy to operate the wireless communication interface and then powers down at least the wireless communication interface. The environmental sensors may continue running to collect data. When the upload time arrives wireless device powers up the wireless communication interface and transfers collected environmental data to CDN . A researcher using user device can then access the data from CDN .

In some embodiments the upload registration may indicate that the media content uploads are periodic. In the context of the preceding example wireless device may indicate that wireless device will upload collected environmental data at the same time each day or each week. Thus a standing registration will exist in CDN for wireless device to periodically upload media content.

Advantageously using the above method wireless device is able to register a media content upload to CDN so that the upload occurs during a time better suited for wireless device CDN or some compromise between the two.

Referring back to wireless communication device comprises Radio Frequency RF communication circuitry and an antenna. The RF communication circuitry typically includes an amplifier filter modulator and signal processing circuitry. Wireless communication device may also include a user interface memory device software processing circuitry or some other communication components. Wireless communication device may be a telephone computer e book mobile Internet appliance wireless network interface card media player game console measurement system or some other wireless communication apparatus including combinations thereof.

Content distribution network comprises network elements that provide media content from wireless device to user devices including user device . Content distribution network may comprise switches wireless access nodes Internet routers network gateways application servers computer systems communication links or some other type of communication equipment including combinations thereof.

User device comprises wired and or wireless communication circuitry used for communicating over communication link . User device may also include a user interface memory device software processing circuitry or some other communication components. User device may be a telephone computer server e book mobile Internet appliance wireless and or wired network interface card media player game console or some other communication apparatus including combinations thereof.

Wireless link uses the air or space as the transport media. Wireless link may use various protocols such as Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Evolution Data Only EVDO Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WIMAX Global System for Mobile Communication GSM Long Term Evolution LTE Wireless Fidelity WIFI High Speed Packet Access HSPA or some other wireless communication format. Communication link uses metal glass air space or some other material as the transport media. Communication link could use various communication protocols such as Time Division Multiplex TDM Internet Protocol IP Ethernet communication signaling CDMA EVDO WIMAX GSM LTE WIFI HSPA or some other communication format including combinations thereof. Communication link could be a direct link or may include intermediate networks systems or devices.

Wireless communication device and wireless access network communicate over wireless link . Wireless access network and CDN communicate over communication link . CDN and user devices communicate over communication links respectively.

Wireless access network comprises network elements that provide communications services to wireless device through wireless access nodes. Wireless access network may comprise switches wireless access nodes Internet routers network gateways application servers computer systems communication links or some other type of communication equipment including combinations thereof. While user devices are not shown to communicate with access network one or more of user devices may use access network to communicate with CDN . Alternatively user devices may use other wired or wireless communication networks to communicate with CDN . In addition while CDN is shown external to access network at least part of CDN may be located within access network .

The rules may similarly be identified by a user of wireless device by wireless device itself or by some other system instructing wireless device . For example the user of wireless device may indicate that only user devices of the user s friends and family are allowed to access the media content. Each rule may indicate a time when user devices can access the media content on CDN which user devices can access the media content on CDN an inclusive or exclusive geographic area where user devices may be located to access the media content on CDN or any other rule limiting the user devices that can access the media content on CDN .

Once the media content and rules are selected wireless device transfers an upload registration request and the rules to CDN step . The upload registration request may include a requested upload time that wireless device is requesting for the upload. The requested upload time may be indicated by a user of wireless device or may be determined by wireless device itself. For example the user may know when wireless device can best handle an upload or wireless device may have or be able to ascertain information about itself such as battery life access network or CDN when determining a requested upload time. Alternatively wireless device may determine an upload time. Wireless device may be able to determine the upload time based on historical usage patterns of wireless device .

In some embodiments CDN may merely consider the requested upload time when determining when the media content upload should occur. Hence CDN may obtain further information and requirements for use when determining an appropriate upload time. Alternatively wireless device may require that the requested upload time be met at least to within a threshold amount of time in order for CDN to confirm the upload registration request. Thus if the requested upload time cannot be met then CDN will transfer a message to wireless device denying the upload registration request.

Once the upload time determined or approved by CDN CDN transfers an upload confirmation to wireless device . The upload confirmation includes any information that wireless device will need to upload the media content to CDN including but not limited to the upload time and a destination network address for the upload. Wireless device receives this confirmation and powers down step . Powering down may completely power off of wireless device put wireless device in a standby mode put one or more communication interfaces and or processing systems of wireless device into a standby mode or any other method whereby wireless device is using less power than it would when communicating with CDN .

At a later time wireless device powers up and transfers the media content to CDN at the upload time and based upon any other upload information indicated by the upload confirmation step . The later time may be the upload time indicated by the upload confirmation or may be some time before the upload time so that wireless device has time to prepare the media content before commencing with the upload at the upload time. An application executing on wireless device to control the upload may instruct wireless device to power up. The application may take advantage of an application programming interface API in an operating system of wireless device to perform the functionality. The application may be an application that manages the media content such as a media viewing management application or may be a separate application.

CDN receives the media content from wireless device and stores the media content in storage . Storage may be located in a single system of CDN or may be spread across multiple systems. For example a copy of the media content may be stored on multiple servers of CDN . Each server may be located in a separate access network such as access network so that the media content can more efficiently be distributed to user devices connected to each network.

After the media content is uploaded user devices can request the media content from CDN . If the request from a particular user device satisfies the rules transferred at step then CDN transfers the media content to the user device step . However if the request from the particular user device does not satisfy the rules transferred at step then CDN does not transfer the media content to the user device step .

For example the rules may indicate that the media content can only be accessed after a given time. A content request that is received before that given time is denied while a content request received after that time is allowed and the media content is transferred to the requesting device.

CDN then transfers an acknowledgment of the upload registration request to wireless device . The acknowledgement message includes a confirmation that wireless device will be allowed to upload the media content at the requested time or at some other time indicated in the acknowledgement. The acknowledgment may further include any information necessary for wireless device to upload the media content. After receiving the acknowledgement message wireless device powers down.

Upon reaching the upload time or at some time before the upload time wireless device powers up so that wireless device can upload the media content to CDN . After powering up wireless device uploads the media content at the upload time based on the information received in the acknowledgment message.

After the media content has been received by CDN and stored in storage CDN receives requests for the media content from user devices and respectively. CDN applies the rules for distributing the media content to the requests and determines that user device can access the media content and user device cannot. While the sequence shows that the rules are applied after both of the requests were received CDN may apply rules to requests as they arrive. Upon determining that user device can access the media content CDN transfers the media content to user device .

In an example user device may not be allowed to access the media content because user device is not within a geographic area indicated by the rules and user device is located within that geographic area.

The sequence begins with wireless device transferring an upload registration request to CDN via access network . The upload registration request indicates that wireless device is requesting to upload media content at an upload time provided in the request and includes any rules governing CDN s distribution of the media content to user devices after the media content is received. The upload registration request may further indicate information about the file such as file size or type.

CDN then transfers an acknowledgment of the upload registration request to wireless device . The acknowledgement message includes a confirmation that wireless device will be allowed to upload the media content at the requested time or at some other time indicated in the acknowledgement. The acknowledgment may further include any information necessary for wireless device to upload the media content. After receiving the acknowledgement message wireless device powers down.

At some time after wireless device has received the acknowledgment from CDN user device requests access to the media content. CDN applies the rules to the request from user device to determine whether user device is able to access the media content. For example the rules may indicate that only user device is able to access the media content. Upon determining that user device can access the media content CDN transfers information to user device indicating how and when user device may obtain the user content. In this example the information indicates the upload time to user device and any information necessary for user device to communicate with wireless device at the upload time. For example the information may include information necessary for user device to communicate with wireless device directly or may include information necessary for user device to communicate with wireless device using CDN as an intermediate system. After receiving the information user device is able to power down in a manner similar to wireless device . In an alternative embodiment CDN may transfer a paging notification to user device when the upload time is reached rather than transfer the information before hand.

Upon reaching the upload time or at some time before the upload time wireless device powers up so that wireless device can upload the media content. User device similarly powers up so that user device can receive the media content from wireless device . Wireless device and user device connect to each other at the upload time and wireless device uploads the media content to user device . Wireless device may connect to directly to user device using information provided by CDN when wireless device powered up or wireless device may communicate with user device using CDN as an intermediate system. If CDN acts as an intermediate system then CDN may store the media content in storage for future access by wireless device or any allowed user devices.

Advantageously if both wireless device and user device have limitations on their ability to exchange media content such as battery usage limitations then both wireless device and user device can minimize powered up time while still being able to perform a machine to machine exchange of media content.

Wireless communication interface comprises RF communication circuitry and an antenna. The RF communication circuitry typically includes an amplifier filter RF modulator and signal processing circuitry. Wireless communication interface may also include a memory device software processing circuitry or some other communication device. Wireless communication interface may use various protocols such as CDMA EVDO WIMAX GSM LTE WIFI HSPA or some other wireless communication format.

User interface comprises components that interact with a user to receive user inputs and to present media and or information. User interface may include a speaker microphone buttons lights display screen touch screen touch pad scroll wheel communication port or some other user input output apparatus including combinations thereof. User interface may be omitted in some examples.

Processing circuitry comprises microprocessor and other circuitry that retrieves and executes operating software from memory device . Memory device comprises a non transitory storage medium such as a disk drive flash drive data storage circuitry or some other memory apparatus. Processing circuitry is typically mounted on a circuit board that may also hold memory device and portions of communication interface and user interface . Operating software comprises computer programs firmware or some other form of machine readable processing instructions. Operating software includes registration module and upload management module . Operating software may further include an operating system utilities drivers network interfaces applications or some other type of software. When executed by processing circuitry operating software directs processing system to operate wireless communication device as described herein.

In particular registration module directs processing system to transfer an upload registration request via wireless communication interface to a content distribution network CDN that indicates wireless communication device and an upload time. Registration module further directs processing system to receive an upload confirmation via wireless communication interface transferred from the CDN confirming the upload registration request and to power down wireless communication device after receiving the upload confirmation. Upload management module directs processing system to power up and obtain the media content. After powering up and during the upload time upload management module directs processing system to transfer the media content via wireless communication interface for delivery to the CDN based on the upload confirmation wherein the CDN subsequently transfers the media content to user devices.

The above description and associated figures teach the best mode of the invention. The following claims specify the scope of the invention. Note that some aspects of the best mode may not fall within the scope of the invention as specified by the claims. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the features described above can be combined in various ways to form multiple variations of the invention. As a result the invention is not limited to the specific embodiments described above but only by the following claims and their equivalents.

