---

title: Automated content scheduler and displayer
abstract: A method for providing content via a communications network on a user's computer, obtained from a plurality of resources in a organized arrangement, is provided. The method includes creating a show structure of nodes, each node identifying a resource from a plurality of accessible resources, at least some of which are network accessible resources. Without requiring user input, a plurality of the network accessible resources identified by a corresponding node, are automatically accessed. Content corresponding to each of the accessed resources are automatically presented through the user's computer in accordance with the show structure. Interactively variable duration information is provided, representing the duration that the content corresponding to the resource is presented so as to enable a user to vary the duration. Advertisement content is presented to the user in connection with the automatic presentation of the content through the user's computer.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08606820&OS=08606820&RS=08606820
owner: Robocast, Inc.
number: 08606820
owner_city: New York
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120613
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 316 209 filed on Dec. 21 2005 which is a continuation of U.S. Pat. No. 7 155 451 filed on Sep. 1 1998 which in turn is a Continuation in Part Application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 08 922 063 filed on Sep. 2 1997 which claims the benefit of priority from U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 025 360 filed on Sep. 3 1996 the entirety of which are incorporated herein by reference. This application is related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 449 570 filed on Apr. 18 2012 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 176 618 filed on Jul. 2 2011 both of which are also continuation applications from the same parent U.S. Pat. No. 11 316 209.

This Invention relates generally to computer networks and specifically to a method of sequencing and scheduling web pages via a suite of software applications.

The worldwide network of computers commonly known as the Internet has grown tremendously since the creation of a subset known as the World Wide Web WWW or Web popularized in 1993. The emergence of the Web and its accompanying standards enabled users to move beyond traditional on line data exposure which required knowledge of protocols and other low level computer constructs to a much more filtered and full featured interface in the form of a Web Browser. The Web Browser filters out the computer constructs displaying only pertinent content such as text images animations and sounds while hiding from the user the computer codes that are used to negotiate access generate and display this content. Some of the standards popularized by the web are Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP Hypertext Markup Language HTML and the Uniform Resource Locator URL . HTTP allows HTML documents which carry many forms of information from text and images to audio and video to be easily found via a URL from a collection of networks known as the Internet. These networks have public and private files which are accessed via routing tables. The routing tables

Two innovations provided by the Browser environment HTTP and the Internet are specialized display of data certain text and graphics and Hyperlinks which appear as clickable buttons or links made of text or graphics in the Graphical User Interface GUI presented by the Browser. These links contain an address for another location on the Internet. Instead of seeing computer language full of telecommunications protocols and an occasional listing of a graphic file s name the user sees only human pertinent text and an automatically displayed image within this text. The user is shown graphical or textual links to facilitate navigation instead of having to properly enter complex path names.

This combination of features coupled with the ease of use that HTML provides as a page publishing format have proved to be very popular leading to a mass adoption of this new medium by many constituencies. These include education most areas of business publishing finance commerce entertainment etc. and government. Given the increasing adoption of the Web many non technically oriented users use this new medium to go from page to page shifting from one computer network to the next simply by making decisions on which links to click. Search engines which index the Web allow these users to quickly locate URLs and their associated links. In addition content aggregators collect and publish collections of Web pages. In just a few years the Web has evolved from static pages to pages containing animation personalized data commerce level security and streaming audio and video. A more recent innovation is the Push Technology model which is found in the more recently released browsers.

Push technology pioneered by Pointcast has been adopted by Netscape and Microsoft the two browser giants as the next way to connect viewers with content. As implemented by Pointcast push technology began in 1996 as a personalized data gathering service. Users select content sources from a list and the Pointcast service automatically provides updated information which is displayed by the user s screen saver in a uniform format. Information providers who send information to users using the Pointcast system must first format their information according to requirements set by Pointcast. Thus the pages of information displayed by the Pointcast screen saver are specially prepared screens. A user of the Pointcast system can access information only from those sources which have prepared information in the Pointcast format.

By collecting user interest profiles the current 4.x level browsers can constantly update a specific set of topics from news sports and weather to financial and entertainment content. Thus push technology enables information to come to the user instead of requiring the user to seek out the information. This not only facilitates a new distribution method for publishers and advertisers but it also fosters new community models and demographics to go with them. As web browsing has evolved it has changed from a mere novelty to a relied upon conduit of information flow.

Recently problems with access to a major on line service provider produced lawsuits stemming from lack of access to mission critical information in both receipt and transmission. As this technology has moved from budding curiosity browsing to true reliance the blossoming of the technology has yet to show what mature fruit it will provide. Commerce is a large part of the development of the medium as companies like Cisco and Boeing conduct exclusive web based sales in excess of one billion dollars. In addition consumer and small business oriented vendors such as Dell have sales in excess of 1 million per day via their website. But what other services beyond a catalog of information and products will the Internet and its Web offer The subject invention proposes a next level of functionality that may provide an insight.

In accordance with one embodiment of the invention a presentation software is employed in a web browser software. A triggering event such as a mouse click on a single link commences the presentation of a series of resources instead of one resource at a time. This arrangement of resources is defined as a show structure or structure which contains a set of nodes. Each node represents a resource such as a web page an executable file or a data file stored at a predetermined location and accessed via its corresponding address. This structure allows access to one or several topics of information from several sources in a continuous arrangement. The topics of information include multimedia data such as audio video graphics and text that together define a presentation show to a user.

It is noted that in accordance with one embodiment of the invention the nodes that define a show structure or a structure may be arranged as a multidimensional sequence. An array of nodes may be available for a multimedia presentation or show. Each node in the array is accessible from the other nodes in the array. These nodes or a portion of these nodes are selected for presentation. A show structure is defined by one or more paths that are spanned through these nodes.

The information conveyed by displaying the resources arranged may be interspersed with advertising and public service announcements PSAs . The presentation of all resources may be adjusted for different pacing attributes of individual users. While the invention may automate a number of the decisions that a user makes in viewing a plurality of resources it in no way inhibits the interactivity currently present on the Web. The decision making process is not inhibited it is optional allowing for preprogramming and navigating the arrangement of resources on the fly or simply watching a series of pre edited resources. The present invention serves as an enhancement which refocuses the state of content delivery to a user via a communication medium such as the Internet TV PC hardware and software offerings.

In accordance with another embodiment of the present invention a method of presenting information content is provided which includes the steps of accessing and providing the information from an arrangement of content sources or a show structure of nodes. Each node in the structure includes both an address from which the information may be accessed and an indication of the duration for which the content will be presented. For each node the method locates the content source accesses the content and presents it for the indicated duration.

According to another aspect of the invention while the requested information is being presented the method queues and caches the next resource then loads the next resource for viewing.

According to yet another aspect of the invention a method is provided by which structures of content sources may be generated. A user may select and organize content from a variety of sources by several methods including a bookmark list a list of search results and through the creation of a structure of nodes by a drag and drop technique.

According to yet another aspect of the invention a method is provided for generating and publishing these structures. When a plurality of nodes are available for presentation the system determines the order of such presentation based on predetermined set of criteria. Furthermore a user may specify additional criteria for arranging the order of nodes in order to create a show structure. The method further includes provisions for a filter which customizes a preexisting structure by automatically conforming variable items in the structure to a predefined user profile.

In accordance with another embodiment of the invention the presentation system and method of displaying resources includes a system for presentation of a user s local computer resources. Therefore the arrangement of resources may include a show structure wherein each node in the structure represents a resource that exists locally within the user s computer. These resources may be scheduled in accordance with a specifiable arrangement and executed in accordance with the schedule.

In accordance with another embodiment of the invention the method for creating a show structure may be employed by a variety of user terminals such as computer PCS dumb terminals TV sets and other terminals that are capable of displaying information. Furthermore for certain applications the method for creating and displaying content from various resources in accordance with one embodiment of the invention may function as an operating system for managing resources for display on the user s terminal.

Content accessed by the browser may not be in a file on a remote computer but may be generated by the remote computer and transmitted to the user directly. Much of the data that may be accessed by a browser on a remote computer is classified by Multipurpose Internet Mail Extension MIME type. One MIME type is an HTML file another is a JPEG file a still picture that is encoded according to the standard developed by the Joint Picture Experts Group. Mime types can also be proprietary data. In this instance the browser may need to be configured with a plug in program in order to decode and present the proprietary data. An example of such a plug in is the Macromedia flash technology which allows streaming animation to be displayed with accompanying audio. For more information on MIME types see Netscape s User Handbook HTTP HyperText Transfer Protocol servers use HTML formatting. Netscape software has the built in capability to read HTML formatted pages as well as the GIF JPEG and XBM graphic file formats . Netscape can interpret many other file formats with the help of external helper applications. To accommodate the file formats requiring helper applications Netscape keeps a mapping of file formats to helper applications. MIME Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions is a standardized method for organizing divergent file formats. The method organizes file formats according to the file s MIME type. When Netscape software retrieves a file from a server the server provides the MIME type of the file. Netscape uses the MIME type to establish whether the file format can be read by the software s built in capabilities or if not whether a suitable helper application is available to read the file.

For servers that do not provide a MIME type with a file Netscape interprets the file s extension a suffix appended to a file name . For example the .HTML extension in the file name index.html suggests a file in the HTML format. Likewise a .zip extension suggests a compressed file an .rtf extension suggests a file in the Rich Text Format and so on.

The Internet content relating to a show structure in accordance with one embodiment of the invention may be implemented as a new MIME type. Thus a show structure may be created by a show originator who intends to present a corresponding arrangement of resources to a user at a specifiable rate. The show structure may be transmitted to a plurality of users via the Internet. Thus in order to ensure the integrity of a show structure a security arrangement in accordance with one embodiment of the invention is provided as described hereinafter.

Thus the software that creates the show structure allows the show originator to encode the identity of its creator. Furthermore a mechanism is employed to automatically verify that the show structure comprising the show has not been tampered with. In one exemplary implementation this is accomplished by using cryptographic techniques for example the Digital Signature Initiative. The identity of the show originator is thus represented by a digital signature. The security status of the currently selected show structure is then visible at all times to the user. If a user chooses to edit a sequence of a show the previously attached signature will be discarded and the user will be made aware of it s new unsigned status.

Today it is taken for granted that to access services information and entertainment on the Web a user must make certain choices position the mouse pointer and click the mouse buttons appropriately to indicate the decisions. For example in a typical Web access these selections are made at a rate of approximately once per minute. The result of each mouse click is another page and another set of decisions. Typically a user is expected to click one of the several dozen links provided on any given page see for example cnn.com . Alternatively a user may type in a URL or access a bookmark to visit a favorite search engine. In addition a user may access a collection of channels of push content via Netscape Communicator s Netcaster or Microsoft Internet Explorer s Active Desktop and sit back for a few seconds to view an animated presentation of a specific publisher s offerings. The user may even choose a headline of a story presented in Pointcast s screen saver to receive more information about that topic grouping within the application or to transfer to a relevant website. All of these methods typically require a significant amount of user effort and decision making to drive the web surfing experience.

Although the users and servers are shown as separate machines in it is well known that a computer being used as a server may host users and may also serve as a conduit for connecting a user to a remote server.

The exemplary system includes a microprocessor a random access memory RAM a memory management circuit a disk drive a floppy disk drive a read only memory ROM which includes the basic I O system BIOS for the computer system a CD ROM drive a modem a digital signal processor a keyboard controller a mouse controller a video controller and an audio controller which are all connected by a system bus . A keyboard a mouse and a graphic display monitor are connected to the keyboard controller mouse controller and video controller . Stereo speakers A and B are connected to the audio controller . In the exemplary system the connection to the on line service provider shown in is made through the modem via a telephone line .

As shown in the memory includes an operating system for example Windows 95 a browser for example Netscape Navigator 4.0 and a cache memory . The hard disk is the main data storage device for the system shown in . It includes the software needed to run the browser and libraries of software used by the operating system to control the operation of all of the components that are connected to the system bus . The hard disk also includes a disk cache not shown for the browser. When data on a remote computer is accessed by the browser it may be transferred by Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP or File Transfer Protocol FTP and stored in this disk cache temporarily. The component of the invention which is used on the user computer may be for example a browser plug in. While in this example the user component is a browser plug in it is contemplated that it may be an Applet which runs on a virtual computer defined by the browser it may also be a stand alone program which includes the functionality that is typically provided by a browser or it may be a distributed application. The user component is described below with reference to and is referred to as the program RoboSurf . The RoboSurf program allows a user to view a show having content that corresponds to a show structure as will be explained in more detail later.

It is noted that in accordance with one embodiment of the invention the nodes that define a show structure or a structure may be arranged as a multidimensional sequence. illustrates an array of nodes that may be available for a multimedia presentation or show. Each node identifies an available resource and the time the resource may be presented to the user. As illustrated in nodes and are available for presentation in accordance with an exemplary arrangement. Each node in the array is accessible from the other nodes in the array. For a typical show or presentations an arrangement of these nodes or a portion of these nodes is selected for presentation as described in reference with through . Thus a show structure is defined by one or more paths that are spanned through these nodes.

Alternatively as illustrated in a show structure can span a path with a length of four beginning at node and traversing to nodes and . The state map of this path is illustrated in . Thus a show in accordance with the structure presented in first presents the contents identified by node followed by contents identified by nodes and .

In a still alternative arrangement a show structure can be created that also spans multiple paths concurrently as illustrated in . For example a first path spans nodes and . The second path spans nodes and . As illustrated nodes and are spanned simultaneously with nodes and . Thus a show in accordance with the structure presented in first presents the contents identified by node followed by the contents identified by node . Thereafter the show structure presents contents identified in nodes and at the same time that is presents the contents identified in nodes and . Finally the structure presents contents identified in node .

Thus a show structure may include one or more paths that can be presented sequentially and or concurrently. It is noted that a path may include portions that is presented sequentially and other portions that are presented concurrently. Furthermore one node to many nodes paths and many nodes to one node paths can also define a show structure. Every time that a node is detected the corresponding content of that node is presented to the user s terminal regardless of whether a plurality of nodes have been detected at the same time or separately.

It is noted that the process that creates and or organizes and manages the arrangement of these nodes and ultimately the corresponding resources may be implemented as a user specific operating system in accordance with one embodiment of the invention. The operating system then allows the paths to be selected and arranged in accordance with interactive user specifications or in accordance with predefined criteria. Thus the operating system among other things organizes and arranges the available resources as identified by available nodes allows end users to select and interact with files and applications and make certain files and or resources available to be shared by all the other resources. For example during a presentation of a show certain sound effects and visual effects may be shared by all resources that may have use for such effects. Such an operating system can be employed for many applications described herein in accordance with various embodiments of the invention.

A show structure may be presented on a server that can be accessed by a user who visits a corresponding site on the server. This component on the server is described below with reference to and is referred to as the program Robosites . Robosites may perform the actual transfer operations to obtain the pages from other web sites.

In addition to RoboSurf and Robosites the exemplary system includes RoboGuide described below with reference to a program that allows several users to access a prepared show structure of nodes or links and have it customized to their respective preferences. The system also includes a program referred to as RoboPublisher described below with reference to which functions as a publishing software so as to help a publisher to prepare show structures. The entire suite of programs is referred to below as RoboCast.

Referring again to a flow chart diagram which illustrates the operation of the server side application Robosites is explained in more detail. The first two steps in represent activities occurring at a user s computer . At step the user starts to access the Internet or other network via a Personal Computer PC a Network Computer NC Web Enabled TV Set or other similar device. At step the user encounters and selects a URL for example within a screen saver an e mail message or a website which is designated as an entry node in a show structure of resources. The URL may be so designated by its association within a list generated by a publisher by results that are automatically generated by a search engine or because it is the first URL in a show structure of URL s that was manually collected by the user. The server stores a plurality of show structures each structure including nodes that represent a resource on the Internet. Thus each structure represents a show that is available for the user s preview.

Accessing the resources referred to by the URL initiates a structure of events in the application Robosites which is running on server shown in . At step the server parses the request into task sets initiating the look up of the resources indicated by the URL. This step gathers the relevant data and custom packages it for the browser shown in . As part of its custom packaging application Robosites provides a set of contents that can be displayed on the user s display terminal in the form of a persistent content window. Therefore a small window on the user s screen begins to display contents that is provided by the server such as advertising or user specific messages. Furthermore as part of its custom packaging application Robosites may arrange the location on the screen where the user can view a selected show and also updates show structures that had been previously used by a user and had been cached in the user s computer.

At step Robosites checks whether the user is intended to receive information in a dynamic arrangement referred to as value added dynamic content. As will be explained in more detail below such value added dynamic content may include additional URL locations or files that are deemed by Robosite system to be of interest to the user such as advertising material. Such dynamic content is usually based on among other things the user s profile. For example some of the factors relating to a user profile which are considered include a particular sports team preference a demographic or a pre set profile as specified in the software. This information is used as selection criteria which is sent to a database and at step a page conforming to the user s preferences is retrieved by the server either locally or from a remotely located database. Thus this dynamic content may be presented in the persistent content window of the user s display screen or as information and messaging contents selectively interspersed between a show structure.

At step if the resource addressed by the URL does not include dynamic content or if the user is unable to receive dynamic content a resource having pre defined content is retrieved either directly from a Robocast operated resource or from a third party with prior authorization to handle such content requests. For example a resource having a default set of advertising content may be presented to the user.

At step either the dynamic or pre defined URL is accessed and the content associated with the URL is retrieved encoded and delivered to the browser at step . The content provided from the location addressed by the URL may be among other formats include HTML DHTML or XML documents. The delivered information may contain references for many other data types including animation streaming and non streaming audio and video Virtual Reality Modeling Language VRML Quicktime VR and front ends for several flavors of database applications to name a few.

At step the content retrieved by RoboSites is delivered ty the user s browser for a show presentation. This step is inherent in the operation of browser shown in accordingly it is not described in detail. At step a timer is started in response to a message produced by the browser indicating that the retrieved content has been delivered and is ready to be presented. This timer is set from a value provided in the corresponding node in a show structure which indicates an amount of time that the content accessed from the associated URL is to be displayed. It is noted that RoboSites provides an additional code to the content corresponding to the amount of time the content is displayed. For example for an HTML file Robosites includes additional tags corresponding to the duration that the HTML document will be displayed by the user s browser.

At step Robosites determines if the user has selected another URL before the timer expires. It is noted that the user may select another URL either manually or via a RoboSurf program that resides on the user s computer. In that event the newly selected URL is based on a node within a show structure that is being executed by the user s RoboSurf program. If another URL has been selected the program will do one of two things 1 forward that user away from the predetermined course of the show structure that was entered at the beginning of this process and take the user on another course based on the other URL selected or 2 skip them forward on the predetermined course that is being played for the user in accordance with the selected structure. This latter scenario is advantageous for a quick reader or someone who has seen the presented content before or in the case of content that the viewer chooses to skip even an advertisement or PSA .

If the user has selected a new URL during the display time allowed by the timer then at step Robosites determines whether the next URL relates to a show structure or not. This may be determined simply by the lack of new URL requests. It may also be determined by checking the header information of the new URL as described below with reference to Table 1. As shown in step the user s decisions are recorded to a database at this point providing a list of feedback for advertisers and content providers in some cases. If for example an advertisement for cat food is displayed a user may skip over the advertisement or otherwise indicate that cat food advertisements are not interesting. This information is recorded at step and used to direct only advertisements that are of interest to the user.

If at step it is determined that the next URL does not relate to a show structure then at step after the user decision is recorded at step the chain session is ended at step and the roboguide screen saver is started at step . If the next URL does relate to a show structure then at step the system requests the next resource in the show structure and returns to step described above. It is noted that in accordance with another embodiment of the invention it is possible to change the course of events to be displayed to the viewer by substituting next resource request at step with a previous resource request. For example if the forward going display provides a first URL content relating to weather forecast to a second URL content relating to sports news the reverse going display provides the sports news before the weather forecast.

It is also noted that a user may switch to another set of show structure at any time by selecting a desired structure for example by a Robosurf program employed by the user s computer. The instructions relating to the newly selected path in a structure may be provided via point A as illustrated in . Furthermore a newly selected path in a structure may also be diverted back to the prior show structure by using the application s surf feature described below with reference to . The user s selections are tracked by the user s Robosurf program. Thus for example when a URL relating to a second show structure is selected by being clicked for the first time the system remembers where the user left the initial structure and returns the user to that point in the structure upon the second click of that surf button. Alternatively the history feature inherent in most browsers may be used to return the user to pages that were presented moments before or days before.

If at step the user does not interact with the system within the allotted time which is set by the user or publisher the timer expires at step and that signals the request for another resource thus enabling the play sequence for automatic surfing.

At step the program requests the next node in the currently playing show structure. While this sequence has been described as a simple display of preprogrammed URLs it is contemplated that in more complex forms this process may stream URLs to the viewer while monitoring the user s habits e.g. which sites are skipped and which sites the user views for the full display time and injecting targeted content including news advertising and PSAs into the data stream.

If the URL selected at step before the time out is not another show structure the Robosites process displays the selected content and resets the timer. If no additional content is available a user specified show structure will be optionally displayed.

The RoboSurf process illustrated by begins at step to access a default list of URLs that may be generated by for example one of several sources such as 1 RoboCast s web server network that will supply a general listing of available show structures 2 a pre selected list generated by the server in response to information obtained about the user from a Profiler program e.g. structures defined for an Intranet described below with reference to 3 the results of a Search initiated through the RoboCast system or through a non affiliated search engine 4 an e mail message 5 the contents of a screen saver s play queue or 6 other delivery methods.

At step the URL is delivered to the browser by one of these methods in a traditional manner. This corresponds to step of described above. Also at step the content is received and or activated either automatically or programmatically for presentation to the user. Once RoboSurf begins to display the content it starts a timer at step . This timer has a duration that is determined from the information contained in each node of the current show structure that corresponds to this URL.

At step While the timer is running RoboSurf monitors the user s actions to determine if the user wants to manually override the play sequence by clicking a URL before the time out. The user may act in several ways to override the play sequence. First the user may select a node or a link on the displayed resource at step . In this instance if the selected link is itself part of a show structure the program goes to step and the newly selected show structure replaces the current structure. If the selected link is not part of a show structure the program goes to step to get the next resource of the initial structure and the timer is reset and play continues at step .

Second the user may click on the Surf button in the control buttons shown in and then select a link on the displayed resource. By pressing the Surf button the user temporarily suspends the display of the original show structure to review contents of pages accessible by hyperlinks presented on a displayed page. When this review is complete the show structure may be restarted at the point of departure by simply clicking on the Surf button a second time.

At step if the user has not selected any URLs the time out occurs and the play sequence resumes at step . In the exemplary embodiment of the invention this step highlights the next item in the schedule window shown in selects the corresponding URL and branches back to step causing Robosites to deliver the content at the requested URL to the browser . It is noted that in accordance with one embodiment of the invention either RoboSurf or Robosites programs may operate independently without interaction with the other.

RoboGuide program starts at step where the user starts access to the Internet or other network via a Personal Computer PC a Network Computer NC Web Enabled TV Set or other similar device. The user encounters and selects a URL which has been designated as the entry node in a show structure of resources by a publisher. This URL may be encountered for example within a screen saver an e mail message or a website.

In accordance with one embodiment of the invention the server terminal that employs the RoboGuide program stores a plurality of various show structures that may be of interest to the users. These show structures may relate to different topics or subjects that visitors may have access via the server. An example of such a server may be a search engine such as those available by YAHOO or EXCITE . In accordance with one embodiment of the invention the RoboGuide program may prepare various show structures based on a user s search specifications. The results of a search may include a plurality of URL locations that contain pertinent information relating to the search topic. In response the RoboGuide program creates a show structure that includes all or portion of the uncovered URL locations as the result of the search.

At step the RoboGuide program receives a request from a user for a URL location that is provided by the server. At step the program retrieves from its database a show structure corresponding to the user s request. For example the server may present a show on travel defined by a show structure prepared by the RoboGuide program.

It is noted that in accordance with one embodiment of the invention the RoboGuide program may create a customized show structure based on the user s preferences that can be obtained in accordance with various filtering techniques commercially available. The server may already have information on the user for example via a profiler program that the user had previously updated via a RoboSites program as described above in reference with . Thus based on such adaptive filtering technique the RoboGuide program creates a personalized content that can be delivered for each user or groups of users.

At step the program employs a filtering technique to create the customized show structure. An exemplary filtering process may be that which is available from Firefly.net described below. This filtering is based on rating the resources e.g. rating a cat food advertisement as inappropriate if the user profile does not indicate that the user has a cat or if the user indicates disinterest in cat food advertisements either explicitly by clicking on an on screen button not shown indicating disinterest or implicitly as may be inferred from a pattern of skipping over cat food advertisements when they are presented . The information generated by the Profiler program is fed to the server based on cookie technology a common method of maintaining information about a client on the web. The server reads the cookie for preferences and date information then feeds a personalized request to the database which sends a dynamically generated list of URLs to the user at step .

At step in response to the received show structures the RoboSurf program residing at the user s terminal parses the data and displays the nodes in the structure in its Schedule window shown in . In response to the user s request a show structure is then presented to the user by either a RoboSurf program as described in reference with or by a RoboSites program as described in reference with .

The following description of an exemplary filtering technique used by Firefly.net was obtained from their Web site at. Collaborative filtering technology is a powerful technology that can effectively address the problem of information and content overload especially in highly subjective domains. Collaborative filtering systems use human intelligence instead of machine intelligence to address the limitations of content based filtering systems. By leveraging human opinions collaborative filtering systems automate the word of mouth process among users. Automated Collaborative Filtering ACF systems automate the word of mouth process on a global scale across hundreds of thousands of users and catalog items. Most ACF systems recommend items using the following three step process 

1. Capture a set of opinions from the user in the form of numerical ratings for items 2. Compute a set of nearest neighbor users for the user. These nearest neighbor users are users with opinions most like the given user. 3. Use the nearest neighbors ratings to compute a set of recommendations for the given user. While standard ACF systems are effective in subjective domains they suffer from certain limitations that may cause them to make incorrect conclusions in broad domains. This is mainly due to their tendency to ignore information about the items being recommended even when such information is readily available.

Feature Guided Automated Collaborative Filtering FGACF is Firefly Network Inc. s powerful technology that combines the benefits of collaborative filtering with those of content based filtering to overcome the limitations that affect standard ACF systems. FGACF utilizes simple feature information about items in a catalog to dynamically partition the space of items on a personalized basis so as to more effectively apply the ACF algorithm in the appropriate sub space.

Designers and developers of commercial collaborative filtering systems need to address several challenging issues. The foremost issue in building large scale collaborative filtering systems is the scaleability of the system. The accuracy of the underlying collaborative filtering technology and the set of functionality offered are important factors for designers of such systems.

Firefly Network Inc. s Catalog Navigator product is scalable to handle loads of hundreds of thousands of users catalog sizes in the half million range with number of ratings in the millions and still provide sub second response times to queries. It has already been successfully deployed in applications on high traffic sites. In addition the Catalog Navigator is the only commercial implementation this powerful FGACF technology and offers one of the most comprehensive sets of catalog and community navigation functionality to a customer. Firefly Networks Inc. 1997.

It is noted that in accordance with another embodiment of the invention the information presented to the user based on the show structures may be reformatted in accordance with certain default structure characteristics. For example such reformatting may include the tasks such as making Web resources more reader friendly when using RoboSurf RoboSites or RoboGuide programs by utilizing formatting parameters such as restraining page size to a default screen size and cuing automatic playing of audio upon displaying a new page providing Play Stop Forward Reverse and Pause indications to facilitate the user s viewing of a show presentation making pages into parts of a of content providing information tags relating to the duration that a content is going to be displayed on the user s terminal and encoding pages with certain demographic and keyword based information to aid the filtering operations explained above.

Table 1 shows an exemplary HTML code that may be added in accordance with one embodiment of the invention to the Web resources or other content that is being reformatted. Note that the HTML of a page can be altered in this way between downloading it from a server and presenting it to the user. This Tagging process only requires a few milliseconds and can be done on the fly.

Essentially this module uses the abilities of a HTML page publishing package like Pagemill from Adobe www.adobe.com to add HTML code of the type shown in Table 1.

At step the user is presented with a dialog box. At step the user is presented with the dialog box options for setting general preferences for all of the resources that will be linked in the structure such as duration for all resources duration estimate based on word count and default page turn sound to accompany an automatic resource delivery.

At step the user has chosen to load a previously defined structure and at step the computer requests and loads the structure from the local or remote drive. Beginning at step the user has many options presented by an interface that will allow the user to choose to Add Edit or Cut a node for the structure they are building. This can be accomplished graphically as shown for example in or via a list. In step the user may Add a node from a standard dialog box that enables browsing from all available drives and from a special cache area that RoboSites RoboSurf and or Robosites produce. This cache area allows users to collect URLs from the Internet by for example browsing implementing searches or culling their e mail for additional show structures. At step the user adds the node at the chosen spot in the structure.

At step the user has the option to commit to changes or cancel and start again. At step the Modify Choice selection gives the user options to edit the parameters of the next node i.e. changing the next node destination or previous node in the structure from for example a local news link to a local weather link . The duration choice pertains to how long the node will be displayed before a subsequent node is loaded. This can be done on a per resource basis since some resources require more time than others. The expiration option allows the publisher to choose a kill date for the node automatically triggering a replacement search or a skip to next action. This is useful for dated information such as weather.

At step the user has the option to delete a node from the structure. Again this can be done graphically as shown in or via a list. This step leads to step where the previous structure is linked to the node that succeeds the deleted node. Step allows the user to choose to continue adding editing and or cutting by branching back either to step or to save the work and or export it for a preview or viewing by others. If the user does not choose to save or export then at step the program reverts to the last saved version or cancels the session. If the user does export then at step the program writes the changes to the local disk shown in . The RoboSites program may in turn write header information to the files to which the user may access locally or even to remote server files. It should be noted that the writing of header information into the HTML documents is an option providing a convenience for RoboSurf and Robosites programs. The page playing actions can be achieved without this header information present. The publisher completes its work at step where it gives the option to preview for the publisher using RoboCast browser enhancements or to publish for other RoboCast product users.

The Reviews field allows a user to specify one of several sources for website or show structure reviews. Using the Ratings field the user can specify limitations on the type of website or structure that will be reviewed using the familiar MPAA rating system. The Censor Level field may be used to control the Web content that the user will see. Different Censor Levels will allow different types of content to be displayed. The RoboSurf program may compare the specified Censor Level to voluntary content ratings obtained froth the Web resources or it may interface with an existing content monitoring system such as Cyber Patrol to ensure that undesirable content is blocked. The final field in the Profiler window allows a user to specify a Help or Guide function. It is contemplated that both text oriented and voice synthesized help would be available. For voice synthesized help the user may identify a particular voice with a name e.g. Chris as shown in .

Item in is the Schedule window. As described above this window shows the current structure of URLs that is being displayed by RoboSurf. The window contains a brief textual description of each URL and a time in hours and minutes and seconds for which content provided from the URL will be displayed. The URL from which content is currently being displayed is highlighted. Each URL in the schedule list also includes a small box which is marked with an x after a URL has been viewed and may be marked with a to indicate that the user wants to return to this site.

Item in are controls for volume channel and speed. The volume control works as would be expected to increase or decrease the level of sound provided. The Channel button allows a viewer to move a pointer up and down in the channel window to select a new channel. As used in this description a channel is a collection of resources such as web pages which are linked into a structure by a content provider. The Speed button allows a user to specify the amount of time between the content of resources. The button on each of the volume channel and speed buttons brings up a separate dialog box in which specific entries may be entered manually.

Item in is the progress bar. This bar displays progress of the system in whatever it has been requested to do. During play mode this bar displays progress through the structure as a percentage of time remaining in the display of the structure. In search mode the bar may display progress in a search and the preparation of a show structure derived from the search. In gather mode the bar may display the progress of the gathering operation.

Item in are the programming bars. The Search button allows the user to establish criteria for a search of the Internet for URLs to be included in a show structure. The Pick button lets a user select categories within established information sources in order to make selections within the specified sites. Once Search Criteria and Pick categories have been established the Gather button retrieves information from the selected sources according to the user s criteria at a specified time and frequency. The Schedule button allows the user to group site content by topic and then set the time when specific group will be played. The Play button begins the presentation of information. In the exemplary embodiment of the invention the Play button also lets a user set parameters such as size of the content window length of time each item is displayed and if RoboSurf is being used as a screen saver screen saver activation parameters e.g. delay time autostart position of cursor and password .

Channel window displays structure publishers that may be accessed by a point and click operation. This window is analogous to a favorite places list in a conventional browser.

Control window contains buttons which allow a user to Skip backwards and forwards through the show structure displayed in the Schedule window Play the information provided from the structure of URLs Stop playing this information Print the information that is currently being viewed and Mark the current resources for later viewing.

In the exemplary embodiment of the invention the Mark button interacts with the Play and Print buttons. While viewing contents relating to a show structure a user may mark individual resources. After viewing the show structure the user may specify that the marked resource be displayed again queued for printing or displayed and printed. This feature may be activated for example through the play or print buttons by activating the buttons with a modifier key for example the right mouse button.

In addition to these buttons the control window also includes an Add Up button which allows a user to add resources to a structure when it is being set up in schedule mode and allows a user to move up the hypertext links that are being displayed on the screen during play mode. The Cut Down button conversely allows a user to delete a site from the structure during schedule mode and move down the hypertext links during play mode. The function of the Surf button is described above. This button allows a user to temporarily suspend the viewing of a structure with a first button press and resume at the suspended site with a second button press. In accordance with another embodiment of the invention the functions described above in reference with are embodiment in a separate remote control hardware device item .

The e mail and video phone buttons item on the display shown in invoke third party software packages one for e mail and one for a video telephone product. Item in the display is the content window. This is where all of the content which is Found Picked Gathered Reviewed Rated Censored Edited and Scheduled is finally and automatically played. The process of playing the content is like television mixed with radio newspapers and a research library.

While the invention has been described in terms of an Internet browser application which allows a user to view or create a show structure of content from various sites it is contemplated that it may be used for other purposes. For example the invention may be used as a jukebox to schedule and present successive audio or video recordings or to schedule and view pay per view movies or videos.

As illustrated in a show structure of resources may be created and played in accordance with various embodiments of the invention. These resources may include for example various local application files on a user s computer. Thus a user may view information relating to various executable programs in a selected arrangement on a desired schedule. A typical example involves a user system that contains an accounting software an on line banking software an Intranet e mail program and a calendar program. The user creates a show structure that executes each of these programs and displays the relevant information at a predetermined rate. This allows the user to automate various tasks that are currently accomplished manually. Thus for example the user on a daily basis can check received e mail followed by the user s schedule for the day available funds in the user s bank account. The selected information are presented automatically in an organized arrangement. It is noted that in accordance with another embodiment of the invention a show structure may include the user s local resources and other remote resources as those explained above in reference with Internet applications.

While only certain features of the invention have been illustrated and described herein many modifications substitutions changes or equivalents will now occur to those skilled in the art. It is therefore to be understood that the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications and changes that fall within the true spirit of the invention.

