---

title: Resource management for data center based gaming
abstract: Technologies are presented for managing a resource demand on a data center providing game services by adjusting a probability of various kinds of game events. Data center load data may be received and used to adjust occurrence tables associated with both one-off and lengthy game events that may direct game clients toward events that may involve lesser resource demand. Contrary to conventional load balancing for non-gaming applications, the methods described herein may take advantage of the pseudorandom event nature that may be a part of a game experience in gaming applications. The resource demand may be altered without changing the number of customers served or the quality of service provided. Thus, resource management may be enhanced while serving the same number of customers.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08790184&OS=08790184&RS=08790184
owner: Empire Technology Development LLC
number: 08790184
owner_city: Wilmington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120329
---
Unless otherwise indicated herein the materials described in this section are not prior art to the claims in this application and are not admitted to be prior art by inclusion in this section.

Data center infrastructure management DCIM systems may be of interest in the management of resources at data centers. Such DCIM systems may include load balancing and optimizing to serve the demand as well as perhaps delaying some data center owned processes that may be delay tolerant. Such DCIM systems may aim to provide a consistent and or predictable user experience for many user facing applications such as business applications communications applications webpage applications having a data center backend and the like. Data center games however may differ from other user facing applications in that any given user experience may be purposely designed to include game elements or behaviors that may be unpredictable surprising variable or the like.

The present disclosure appreciates that management of resources for data center games may be a challenging endeavor.

The present disclosure generally describes technologies for managing resources for data center games.

According to some examples a method for managing data center resources for a game service is provided. The method may include deploying a game service for multiple game clients providing a sequence of game events to one or more game clients based on a probability of occurrence for each of the game events in the sequence determining a resource demand on a data center infrastructure due to the deployed game service and if the resource demand is above a predefined resource threshold modifying the probability of occurrence for at least one of the game events such that the sequence of game events may be modified to reduce the resource demand.

According to various examples a data center configured to deploy one or more game services for multiple game clients is provided. The data center may include a management server configured to monitor a data center infrastructure and determine a resource demand on the data center infrastructure. The data center may also include at least one server. The at least one server may be configured to deploy a game service provide a sequence of game events to one or more game clients based on a probability of occurrence for each of the game events in the sequence receive an alert from the management server if the resource demand is above a predefined resource threshold and modify the probability of occurrence for at least one of the game events if the resource demand is above a predefined resource threshold such that the sequence of game events may be modified to reduce the resource demand.

According to further examples a computer readable storage medium having instructions stored thereon for managing data center resources for a game service is provided. The instructions may include deploying a game service for multiple game clients providing a sequence of game events to one or more game clients based on a probability of occurrence for each of the game events in the sequence determining a resource demand on a data center infrastructure due to the deployed game service and if the resource demand is above a predefined resource threshold modifying the probability of occurrence for at least one of the game events such that the sequence of game events may be modified to reduce the resource demand.

According to some examples a game vendor server configured to deploy a game service for multiple game clients is provided. The game vendor server may include a memory configured to store instructions. The game vendor server may also include a processor configured to execute a game application in conjunction with the instructions stored in the memory. The game application may be configured to provide a sequence of game events to one or more game clients based on a probability of occurrence for each of the game events in the sequence monitor a resource demand server due to the deployed game service and if the resource demand is above a predefined resource threshold modify the probability of occurrence for at least one of the game events incentivize a game client to select a game event in the sequence and or move a game client to a different game instance such that the resource demand may be reduced while preserving a pseudorandom nature of the sequence of game events.

The foregoing summary is illustrative only and is not intended to be in any way limiting. In addition to the illustrative aspects embodiments and features described above further aspects embodiments and features will become apparent by reference to the drawings and the following detailed description.

In the following detailed description reference is made to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof. In the drawings similar symbols typically identify similar components unless context dictates otherwise. The illustrative embodiments described in the detailed description drawings and claims are not meant to be limiting. Other embodiments may be utilized and other changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the subject matter presented herein. It will be readily understood that the aspects of the present disclosure as generally described herein and illustrated in the Figures can be arranged substituted combined separated and designed in a wide variety of different configurations all of which are explicitly contemplated herein.

This disclosure is generally drawn inter alia to methods apparatus systems devices and or computer program products related to resource management in data center based gaming.

Briefly stated technologies are presented for managing a resource demand on a data center providing game services by adjusting a probability of various kinds of game events. Data center load data may be received and used to adjust occurrence tables associated with both one off and lengthy game events that may direct game clients toward events that may involve lesser resource demand. Contrary to conventional load balancing for non gaming applications the techniques described herein may take advantage of the pseudorandom event nature that may be a part of a game experience in gaming applications. The resource demand may be altered without changing the number of customers served or a quality of service provided. Thus resource management may be enhanced while serving the same number of customers.

The example method may begin with block where a sequence of game events is provided to one or more of the game clients based on a probability of occurrence Pfor each of the game events in the sequence. Collectively the sequence of game events based on the probability of occurrence Pfor each of the game events in the sequence may be stored e.g. in a dynamic table of occurrences . Block may be followed by block .

At block a resource demand Ron the data center due to the deployed game service may be determined. The resource demand Rmay be self determined by the data center or may be determined by the optional management server . Block may be followed by block where the resource demand Ris compared to a predefined resource threshold R. If the resource demand Ris above the predefined resource threshold R block may be followed by block where the probability of occurrence Pis modified for at least one of the game events such that the sequence of game events is modified to reduce the resource demand R. Block may then be followed by block . If the resource demand Ris not above e.g. below the predefined resource threshold R block may be followed by block where the resource demand Ron the data center due to the deployed game service is determined. In some examples the example method may include maintaining the dynamic table of occurrences for indexing game events to probabilities of occurrence.

Block may be followed by block where whether the historical resource demand Ris above the predefined resource threshold Ris determined. If the historical resource demand Ris above the predefined resource threshold R block may be followed by block where the probability of occurrence Pfor at least one of the game events may be modified at least one game client may be incentivized to select another game event in the sequence and or at least one other game client may be moved such that the resource demand is reduced. If the historical resource demand Ris not above e.g. below the predefined resource threshold R block may be followed by block where the historical resource demand Ris determined on the data center due to the deployed game service . In some examples the example method may include maintaining the dynamic table of occurrences for indexing game events to probabilities of occurrence. On some occasions resource demand may exceed R for example when Phas been changed but has not had time to take effect or when players do unpredicted things. The game client may be incentivized by the game service operator and or the data center by changing the probability of occurrence.

As used herein the resource demand value such as R may represent one or more resources of the data center . For example the resource demand Rmay be determined based on consumption of a memory allocation a data storage capacity a processing capacity a network bandwidth a cooling capacity and or a power capacity or the like. As used herein the historical resource demand value such as R may represent a resource demand recorded from previous game play and may be correlated to one or more in game or out of game conditions. Examples of in game conditions which may be correlated with Rinclude game client load game play history or the like. Examples of out of game conditions which may be correlated with Rinclude time of day day of week whether a day is a holiday a weekend day or another day that may correlate to a change in the number of active game clients geographical distribution of game clients network congestion conditions current or recent game sales occurrence of out of game public events or media displays that may be correlated to the game such as a companion television show or the like. Other examples of out of game conditions may also include one or more other recorded resource demands such as the memory allocation the data storage capacity the processing capacity the network bandwidth the cooling capacity and the power capacity or the like. In some embodiments Rmay be a combination of multiple historical resource demand values. For example Rmay be for a combination of a number of players and computed based on applied Pfor each player.

As used herein a predefined resource threshold such as Rrepresents a level of demand on one or more of the resources of the data center which triggers the modifying the probability of occurrence Pdescribed above in conjunction with block . The predefined resource threshold may represent the resources of the data center separately or collectively. For example the predefined resource threshold may include individual threshold values for each of the one or more resources and or an overall threshold value that depends on the collective value of two or more of the resources. In some examples the predefined resource threshold may be a computed score. For example specific implementations of individual threshold values collective threshold values variation in threshold values as a function of time of day or other variables etc. may be computed according to the needs and configuration of a specific data center and its clients.

Each game event is any occurrence within the online game which may be perceived as unpredictable as received by the game client. The sequence of game events may be any series of occurrences within the online game which may occur as determined by the probability of occurrence as modulated by game play. As used herein the probability of occurrence value such as P may represent the chance of occurrence for any particular game event or sequence of game events. In various examples the game events may be distinguished by a different game location a different game time a different game scenario and or a different subset of participating game clients.

In various examples modifying the probability of occurrence Pfor at least one of the game events such that the sequence of game events may be modified to reduce the resource demand Rmay be substantially undetectable to the game clients. For example a game player at one of the game clients may experience game play without being aware that the probability of occurrence of any particular game event has changed or that the sequence of game events has changed.

In various examples modifying the probability of occurrence may include or may result in preserving a pseudorandom nature of the sequence of game events when modifying the sequence. For example a variance in expected game behavior resulting from the modification to the series of game events may be perceived by a game player at a game client as normal variation that may be expected within game play.

In some examples modifying the probability of occurrence by the game service and or the data center may include encouraging or incentivizing a game client to select a game event in the sequence such that the resource demand is reduced as a result of the selection. For example one of the game events may be a decision point in the game for the game player. The game player may have the option of selecting between two or more options such as which door to open among two or more doors. One such option may represent a lower resource demand and another such option may represent a higher resource demand. The game player at the game client may be incentivized or encouraged to select the option representing the lower resource demand through an in game reward an in game penalty an out of game reward an out of game penalty a game objective a game scenario a game play indicator a game congestion indicator and or an inter player communication. For example the player may be rewarded for selecting the option representing the lower resource demand via in game rewards such score points experience points game items game monetary units character abilities opportunities to experience rare game events or game scenarios not offered as part of standard game play chances to win other in game rewards or the like.

The player may also be penalized for selecting the option representing the higher resource demand by taking away in game rewards. In another example the game player at the game client may be incentivized or encouraged by the game service and or the data center to select the option representing the lower resource demand by an offer of out of game rewards such as a discount on game pricing a discount on products or services which facilitate game play such as a coupon for a game controller or a discount on airtime for game play over a mobile network a discount on an out of game product or service chances to win other out of game rewards or the like. The player may also be penalized for selecting the option representing the higher resource demand by taking away out of game rewards or by increasing out of game costs for example charging a higher game fee for game play at a time of high game center resource demand.

In some examples if the resource demand Ris above the predefined resource threshold R at least one game client may be moved to a different data center zone a different server and or a different data center instance. For example is a conceptual illustration of an example online gaming environment arranged in accordance with at least some embodiments described herein. A data center configured in a zone oriented architecture may employ multiple servers and to deploy a game service for multiple game clients and . The data center may be self managed or may include an optional management server . While deploying the game service for the game clients and the data center may implement any of the example methods or for managing data center resources.

Further the data center may employ servers and to act as different data center zones different servers different data center instances or the like. For example illustrates that the server has four game clients and and the server has one game client . In some examples the predefined resource threshold may represent a game client load on each server. If the resource demands of the four game clients and exceed the predefined game client load threshold one or more of the game clients e.g. the game client may be moved to a different server e.g. the server as symbolized by the curved dashed arrow in . In various examples the management server may be configured to determine a first resource demand for a first server e.g. the server and a second resource demand for a second server e.g. the server and if the first resource demand exceeds the second resource demand the management server may modify the probability of occurrence for at least one of the game events such that the sequence shifts from the first server to the second server .

In some examples the differences between servers and may be substantially undetectable to the game players and the game clients and . In other examples the differences between the servers and may be implemented as variations visible to the game players and the game clients and such as different in game locations different in game scenarios different collections of game clients and and the like.

Moreover the data center may be implemented with any suitable configuration of the servers and for example in the form of a server farm a grid computing system a computing cluster a parallel cluster a cloud computing center data center instances within a server farm a grid computing system a computing cluster a parallel cluster a cloud computing center a mainframe or the like.

Depending on the desired configuration the processor may be of any type including but not limited to a microprocessor P a microcontroller C a digital signal processor DSP or any combination thereof. The processor may include one more levels of caching such as a level cache memory a processor core and registers . The example processor core may include an arithmetic logic unit ALU a floating point unit FPU a digital signal processing core DSP Core or any combination thereof. An example memory controller may also be used with the processor or in some implementations the memory controller may be an internal part of the processor .

Depending on the desired configuration the system memory may be of any type including but not limited to volatile memory such as RAM non volatile memory such as ROM flash memory etc. or any combination thereof. The system memory may include an operating system one or more game service applications and program data . The game service applications may include an event occurrence API which may modify the probability of occurrence Pin service oriented architecture configurations as described herein. The game service applications may also include an occurrence table for the sequence of game events Pfor each game event Rcorrelated to one or more in game or out of game conditions and the like. The program data may include among other data one or more control parameters such as parameters for modifying P providing an incentive to a game client moving one game client or the like as described herein.

The computing device may have additional features or functionality and additional interfaces to facilitate communications between the basic configuration and any desired devices and interfaces. For example a bus interface controller may be used to facilitate communications between the basic configuration and one or more data storage devices via a storage interface bus . The data storage devices may be one or more removable storage devices one or more non removable storage devices or a combination thereof. Examples of the removable storage and the non removable storage devices include magnetic disk devices such as flexible disk drives and hard disk drives HDD optical disk drives such as compact disk CD drives or digital versatile disk DVD drives solid state drives SSD tape drives and the like. Example computer storage media may include volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data.

The system memory the removable storage devices and the non removable storage devices are examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which may be used to store the desired information and which may be accessed by the computing device . Any such computer storage media may be part of the computing device .

The computing device may also include an interface bus for facilitating communication from various interface devices e.g. one or more output devices one or more peripheral interfaces and one or more communication devices to the basic configuration via the bus interface controller . Some of the example output devices include a graphics processing unit and an audio processing unit which may be configured to communicate to various external devices such as a display or speakers via one or more A V ports . One or more example peripheral interfaces may include a serial interface controller or a parallel interface controller which may be configured to communicate with external devices such as input devices e.g. keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device etc. or other peripheral devices e.g. printer scanner etc. via one or more I O ports . An example communication device includes a network controller which may be arranged to facilitate communications with one or more other computing devices over a network communication link via one or more communication ports . The one or more other computing devices may include servers in any of the data centers and such as servers or the game clients or and management servers or or the like as described herein.

The network communication link may be one example of a communication media. Communication media may typically be embodied by computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and may include any information delivery media. A modulated data signal may be a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media may include wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic radio frequency RF microwave infrared IR and other wireless media. The term computer readable media as used herein may include both storage media and communication media.

The computing device may be implemented in any suitable configuration for example as a part of a general purpose or specialized server a server farm a grid computing system a computing cluster a parallel cluster a cloud computing center a mainframe or the like that includes any of the above functions. The computing device may also be implemented as a personal computer including both laptop computer and non laptop computer configurations.

Example embodiments may also include methods. These methods can be implemented in any number of ways including the structures described herein. One such way may be by machine operations of devices of the type described in the present disclosure. Another optional way may be for one or more of the individual operations of the methods to be performed in conjunction with one or more human operators performing some of the operations while other operations may be performed by machines. These human operators need not be collocated with each other but each can be only with a machine that performs a portion of the program. In other examples the human interaction can be automated such as by pre selected criteria that may be machine automated.

An example process for managing data center resources for a game service may begin with block DEPLOY A GAME SERVICE . For example the data centers and may deploy online games and the like as described herein.

Block may be followed by block PROVIDE A SEQUENCE OF GAME EVENTS TO ONE OR MORE GAME CLIENTS BASED ON A PROBABILITY OF OCCURRENCE FOR AT LEAST SOME OF THE GAME EVENTS IN THE SEQUENCE. The operation s at block may be carried out by the data centers and to provide the sequence of game events to one or more game clients such as the game clients and respectively. The sequence of game events and the probability of occurrence may be drawn from a database e.g. or . Probability of some events may be 1 i.e. they always happen or some events may depend on others. Game events may also be of different lengths and may include substantial plot material and duration.

Block may be followed by block MONITOR DATA CENTER INFRASTRUCTURE and block DETERMINE A RESOURCE DEMAND ON THE DATA CENTER INFRASTRUCTURE. The operations of blocks and may be carried out by the optional management servers such as or . In the absence of one of the optional management servers blocks and may be carried out by any of the servers in the data centers and .

Block may be followed by block DETERMINE IF THE RESOURCE DEMAND IS ABOVE A PREDEFINED RESOURCE THRESHOLD. The operation s of block may be carried out by a server such as the servers in the data centers and or by the optional management servers such as or .

Block may be followed by block MODIFY THE PROBABILITY OF OCCURRENCE FOR AT LEAST ONE OF THE GAME EVENTS SUCH THAT THE SEQUENCE OF GAME EVENTS IS MODIFIED TO REDUCE THE RESOURCE DEMAND. The operation s of block may be carried out by a server such as the servers in data centers and or by the optional management servers such as or . Block may include outputting the modified probability of occurrence and the modified sequence of game events to the databases. Block may be followed by block where the modified probability of occurrence and the modified sequence of game events are again provided to the game clients.

The operations included in the above described process are for illustration purposes. Managing data center resources for a game service may be implemented by similar processes with fewer or additional operations for example employing operations depicted in and . In some examples the operations may be performed in a different order. In some other examples various operations may be eliminated. In still other examples various operations may be divided into additional operations or combined together into fewer operations.

In some implementations the signal bearing medium depicted in may encompass a computer readable medium such as but not limited to a hard disk drive a solid state drive a Compact Disc CD a Digital Versatile Disk DVD a digital tape memory etc. In some implementations the signal bearing medium may encompass a recordable medium such as but not limited to memory read write R W CDs R W DVDs etc. In some implementations the signal bearing medium may encompass a communications medium such as but not limited to a digital and or an analog communication medium e.g. a fiber optic cable a waveguide a wired communications link a wireless communication link etc. . Thus for example the program product may be conveyed to one or more modules of the processor by an RF signal bearing medium where the signal bearing medium is conveyed by the wireless communications medium e.g. a wireless communications medium conforming with the IEEE 802.11 standard .

According to some examples a method for managing data center resources for a game service is provided. The method may include deploying a game service for multiple game clients providing a sequence of game events to one or more game clients based on a probability of occurrence for each of the game events in the sequence determining a resource demand on a data center infrastructure due to the deployed game service and if the resource demand is above a predefined resource threshold modifying the probability of occurrence for at least one of the game events such that the sequence of game events is modified to reduce the resource demand.

In various examples the modification of the sequence of game events may be substantially undetectable to the game clients.

In some examples the method may further include encouraging or incentivizing a game client to select a game event in the sequence such that the resource demand may be reduced as a result of the selection. In other examples the method may further include preserving a pseudorandom nature of the sequence of game events when modifying the sequence. In various examples the game clients may be encouraged or incentivized by a game service provider and or a data center deploying the game service through an in game reward an in game penalty an out of game reward an out of game penalty a game objective a game scenario a game play indicator a game congestion indicator and or an inter player communication.

In some examples a game service provider may be incentivized to manage the resource demand by modifying the probability of occurrence for one of the game events or enable a data center deploying the game service to manage the resource demand by modifying the probability of occurrence for one of the game events. In other examples the game events may be distinguished by a different game location a different game time a different game scenario and or a different subset of participating game clients.

In various examples the method may also include determining an expected resource demand based on historical usage. If the expected resource demand is above the predefined resource threshold the method may include modifying the probability of occurrence for at least one of the game events incentivizing at least one game client to select another game event in the sequence and or moving at least one other game client such that the resource demand is reduced.

In some examples the method may further include maintaining a dynamic table of occurrences indexing game events to probabilities of occurrence. In other examples the predefined resource threshold may be a computed score.

In various examples the resource demand may be determined based on consumption of a memory allocation a data storage capacity a processing capacity a network bandwidth a cooling capacity and or a power capacity.

According to some examples a data center configured to deploy one or more game services for multiple game clients may be provided. The data center may include a management server configured to monitor a data center infrastructure and determine a resource demand on the data center infrastructure. The data center may also include at least one server configured to deploy a game service provide a sequence of game events to one or more game clients based on a probability of occurrence for each of the game events in the sequence receive an alert from the management server if the resource demand may be above a predefined resource threshold and modify the probability of occurrence for at least one of the game events if the resource demand may be above a predefined resource threshold such that the sequence of game events may be modified to reduce the resource demand.

In various examples of the data center the modification of the sequence of game events may be substantially undetectable to the game clients.

In some examples of the data center at least one of the servers may be further configured to encourage or incentivize a game client to select a game event in the sequence such that the resource demand may be reduced as a result of the selection.

In other examples of the data center at least one of the servers may be further configured to preserve a pseudorandom nature of the sequence of game events when modifying the sequence.

In various examples of the data center the game clients may be encouraged or incentivized through an in game reward an in game penalty an out of game reward an out of game penalty a game objective a game scenario a game play indicator a game congestion indicator and or an inter player communication.

In some examples of the data center the at least one server may be further configured to incentivize a game service provider to manage the resource demand by modifying the probability of occurrence for one of the game events or enable a data center deploying the game service to manage the resource demand by modifying the probability of occurrence for one of the game events.

In other examples of the data center the game events may be distinguished by a different game location a different game time a different game scenario and or a different subset of participating game clients.

In various examples of the data center the management server may be further configured to determine an expected resource demand based on historical usage. In some examples of the data center if the expected resource demand is above the predefined resource threshold the at least one server may be further configured to modify the probability of occurrence for at least one of the game events incentivize at least one game client to select another game event in the sequence and or move at least one other game client such that the resource demand is reduced. A game service provider may be incentivized to enable the data center deploying the game service to manage the resource demand by modifying the probability of occurrence for the at least one of the game events

In various examples of the data center at least one of the servers may be further configured to maintain a dynamic table of occurrences indexing game events to probabilities of occurrence.

In other examples of the data center the resource demand may be determined based on consumption of a memory allocation a data storage capacity a processing capacity a network bandwidth a cooling capacity and or a power capacity.

In various examples of the data center the data center may be configured to deploy multiple game services from multiple game vendors and the at least one server may be further configured to employ an event occurrence application programming interface API to modify the probability of occurrence.

In some examples of the data center the management server may be further configured to provide incentives to the game vendors to provide the event occurrence API and multiple game sequence options associated with different levels of resource consumption.

In other examples of the data center the management server may be further configured to enable the game vendors to update the event occurrence API in order to provide probabilities of occurrence for additional game events.

In various examples of the data center the data center may be configured to deploy the game service in a zone oriented architecture and the management server may be further configured to determine a first resource demand for a first zone server and a second resource demand for a second zone server and if the first resource demand exceeds the second resource demand modify the probability of occurrence for at least one of the game events such that the sequence may shift from the first zone server to the second zone server.

According to some examples a computer readable medium with instructions stored thereon for managing data center resources for a game service is provided. The instructions may include deploying a game service for multiple game clients providing a sequence of game events to one or more game clients based on a probability of occurrence for each of the game events in the sequence determining a resource demand on a data center infrastructure due to the deployed game service and if the resource demand is above a predefined resource threshold modifying the probability of occurrence for at least one of the game events such that the sequence of game events may be modified to reduce the resource demand.

In various examples of the computer readable medium the modification of the sequence of game events may be substantially undetectable to the game clients.

In some examples of the computer readable medium the instructions may further include encouraging or incentivizing a game client to select a game event in the sequence such that the resource demand is reduced as a result of the selection.

In other examples of the computer readable medium the instructions may also include preserving a pseudorandom nature of the sequence of game events when modifying the sequence.

In various examples of the computer readable medium the game clients may be encouraged or incentivized by a game service provider and or a data center deploying the game service through an in game reward an in game penalty an out of game reward an out of game penalty a game objective a game scenario a game play indicator a game congestion indicator and or an inter player communication.

In some examples of the computer readable medium the game service provider may be incentivized to manage the resource demand by modifying the probability of occurrence for one of the game events or enable a data center deploying the game service to manage the resource demand by modifying the probability of occurrence for one of the game events.

In other examples of the computer readable medium the game events may be distinguished by a different game location a different game time a different game scenario and or a different subset of participating game clients.

In various examples of the computer readable medium the instructions may also include determining an expected resource demand based on historical usage. In some examples if the expected resource demand is above the predefined resource threshold the instructions may further include modifying the probability of occurrence for at least one of the game events incentivizing at least one game client to select another game event in the sequence and or moving at least one other game client such that the resource demand is reduced.

In other examples of the computer readable medium the instructions may also include maintaining a dynamic table of occurrences indexing game events to probabilities of occurrence.

In various examples of the computer readable medium the predefined resource threshold may be a computed score.

In various examples of the computer readable medium the resource demand may be determined based on consumption of a memory allocation a data storage capacity a processing capacity a network bandwidth a cooling capacity and or a power capacity.

According to some examples a game vendor server may be configured to deploy a game service for multiple game clients. The game vendor server may include a memory configured to store instructions and a processor configured to execute a game application in conjunction with the instructions stored in the memory. The game application may be configured to provide a sequence of game events to one or more game clients based on a probability of occurrence for each of the game events in the sequence monitor a resource demand server due to the deployed game service and if the resource demand is above a predefined resource threshold modify the probability of occurrence for at least one of the game events incentivize a game client to select a game event in the sequence and or move a game client to a different game instance such that the resource demand is reduced while preserving a pseudorandom nature of the sequence of game events.

In various examples of the game vendor server the modification of the sequence of game events may be substantially undetectable to the game clients.

In some examples of the game vendor server the game clients may be incentivized through an in game reward an in game penalty an out of game reward an out of game penalty a game objective a game scenario a game play indicator a game congestion indicator and or an inter player communication.

In other examples of the game vendor server the game events may be distinguished by a different game location a different game time a different game scenario and or a different subset of participating game clients.

There is little distinction left between hardware and software implementations of aspects of systems the use of hardware or software is generally but not always in that in certain contexts the choice between hardware and software may become significant a design choice representing cost vs. efficiency tradeoffs. There are various vehicles by which processes and or systems and or other technologies described herein may be effected e.g. hardware software and or firmware and that the preferred vehicle will vary with the context in which the processes and or systems and or other technologies are deployed. For example if an implementer determines that speed and accuracy are paramount the implementer may opt for a mainly hardware and or firmware vehicle if flexibility is paramount the implementer may opt for a mainly software implementation or yet again alternatively the implementer may opt for some combination of hardware software and or firmware.

The foregoing detailed description has set forth various embodiments of the devices and or processes via the use of block diagrams flowcharts and or examples. Insofar as such block diagrams flowcharts and or examples contain one or more functions and or operations it will be understood by those within the art that each function and or operation within such block diagrams flowcharts or examples may be implemented individually and or collectively by a wide range of hardware software firmware or virtually any combination thereof. In one embodiment several portions of the subject matter described herein may be implemented via Application Specific Integrated Circuits ASICs Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs digital signal processors DSPs or other integrated formats. However those skilled in the art will recognize that some aspects of the embodiments disclosed herein in whole or in part may be equivalently implemented in integrated circuits as one or more computer programs running on one or more computers e.g. as one or more programs running on one or more computer systems as one or more programs running on one or more processors e.g. as one or more programs running on one or more microprocessors as firmware or as virtually any combination thereof and that designing the circuitry and or writing the code for the software and or firmware would be well within the skill of one of skill in the art in light of this disclosure.

The present disclosure is not to be limited in terms of the particular embodiments described in this application which are intended as illustrations of various aspects. Many modifications and variations can be made without departing from its spirit and scope as will be apparent to those skilled in the art. Functionally equivalent methods and apparatuses within the scope of the disclosure in addition to those enumerated herein will be apparent to those skilled in the art from the foregoing descriptions. Such modifications and variations are intended to fall within the scope of the appended claims. The present disclosure is to be limited only by the terms of the appended claims along with the full scope of equivalents to which such claims are entitled. It is to be understood that this disclosure is not limited to particular sensors computing devices components networks or data center environments which can of course vary. It is also to be understood that the terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting.

In addition those skilled in the art will appreciate that the mechanisms of the subject matter described herein are capable of being distributed as a program product in a variety of forms and that an illustrative embodiment of the subject matter described herein applies regardless of the particular type of signal bearing medium used to actually carry out the distribution. Examples of a signal bearing medium include but are not limited to the following a recordable type medium such as a floppy disk a hard disk drive a Compact Disc CD a Digital Versatile Disk DVD a digital tape a computer memory etc. and a transmission type medium such as a digital and or an analog communication medium e.g. a fiber optic cable a waveguide a wired communications link a wireless communication link etc. .

Those skilled in the art will recognize that it is common within the art to describe devices and or processes in the fashion set forth herein and thereafter use engineering practices to integrate such described devices and or processes into data processing systems. That is at least a portion of the devices and or processes described herein may be integrated into a data processing system via a reasonable amount of experimentation. Those having skill in the art will recognize that a typical data processing system generally includes one or more of a system unit housing a video display device a memory such as volatile and non volatile memory processors such as microprocessors and digital signal processors computational entities such as operating systems drivers graphical user interfaces and applications programs one or more interaction devices such as a touch pad or screen and or control systems including feedback loops and control motors e.g. feedback for sensing position and or velocity of gantry systems control motors for moving and or adjusting components and or quantities .

A typical data processing system may be implemented utilizing any suitable commercially available components such as those typically found in data computing communication and or network computing communication systems. The herein described subject matter sometimes illustrates different components contained within or connected with different other components. It is to be understood that such depicted architectures are merely exemplary and that in fact many other architectures may be implemented which achieve the same functionality. In a conceptual sense any arrangement of components to achieve the same functionality is effectively associated such that the desired functionality is achieved. Hence any two components herein combined to achieve a particular functionality may be seen as associated with each other such that the desired functionality is achieved irrespective of architectures or intermediate components. Likewise any two components so associated may also be viewed as being operably connected or operably coupled to each other to achieve the desired functionality and any two components capable of being so associated may also be viewed as being operably couplable to each other to achieve the desired functionality. Specific examples of operably couplable include but are not limited to physically connectable and or physically interacting components and or wirelessly interactable and or wirelessly interacting components and or logically interacting and or logically interactable components.

With respect to the use of substantially any plural and or singular terms herein those having skill in the art can translate from the plural to the singular and or from the singular to the plural as is appropriate to the context and or application. The various singular plural permutations may be expressly set forth herein for sake of clarity.

It will be understood by those within the art that in general terms used herein and especially in the appended claims e.g. bodies of the appended claims are generally intended as open terms e.g. the term including should be interpreted as including but not limited to the term having should be interpreted as having at least the term includes should be interpreted as includes but is not limited to etc. . It will be further understood by those within the art that if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is intended such an intent will be explicitly recited in the claim and in the absence of such recitation no such intent is present. For example as an aid to understanding the following appended claims may contain usage of the introductory phrases at least one and one or more to introduce claim recitations. However the use of such phrases should not be construed to imply that the introduction of a claim recitation by the indefinite articles a or an limits any particular claim containing such introduced claim recitation to embodiments containing only one such recitation even when the same claim includes the introductory phrases one or more or at least one and indefinite articles such as a or an e.g. a and or an should be interpreted to mean at least one or one or more the same holds true for the use of definite articles used to introduce claim recitations. In addition even if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is explicitly recited those skilled in the art will recognize that such recitation should be interpreted to mean at least the recited number e.g. the bare recitation of two recitations without other modifiers means at least two recitations or two or more recitations .

Furthermore in those instances where a convention analogous to at least one of A B and C etc. is used in general such a construction is intended in the sense one having skill in the art would understand the convention e.g. a system having at least one of A B and C would include but not be limited to systems that have A alone B alone C alone A and B together A and C together B and C together and or A B and C together etc. . It will be further understood by those within the art that virtually any disjunctive word and or phrase presenting two or more alternative terms whether in the description claims or drawings should be understood to contemplate the possibilities of including one of the terms either of the terms or both terms. For example the phrase A or B will be understood to include the possibilities of A or B or A and B. 

In addition where features or aspects of the disclosure are described in terms of Markush groups those skilled in the art will recognize that the disclosure is also thereby described in terms of any individual member or subgroup of members of the Markush group.

As will be understood by one skilled in the art for any and all purposes such as in terms of providing a written description all ranges disclosed herein also encompass any and all possible subranges and combinations of subranges thereof. Any listed range can be easily recognized as sufficiently describing and enabling the same range being broken down into at least equal halves thirds quarters fifths tenths etc. As a non limiting example each range discussed herein can be readily broken down into a lower third middle third and upper third etc. As will also be understood by one skilled in the art all language such as up to at least greater than less than and the like include the number recited and refer to ranges which can be subsequently broken down into subranges as discussed above. Finally as will be understood by one skilled in the art a range includes each individual member. Thus for example a group having 1 3 cells refers to groups having 1 2 or 3 cells. Similarly a group having 1 5 cells refers to groups having 1 2 3 4 or 5 cells and so forth.

While various aspects and embodiments have been disclosed herein other aspects and embodiments will be apparent to those skilled in the art. The various aspects and embodiments disclosed herein are for purposes of illustration and are not intended to be limiting with the true scope and spirit being indicated by the following claims.

