---

title: Systems and methods for group communication using a mobile device with mode depending on user proximity or device position
abstract: Methods and systems for controlling group communications using a mobile device includes detecting a motion of the mobile device corresponding to a user placing the device on a surface, maintain a communication session with another mobile device while the user is detected in proximity to the first mobile device, and entering a non-active communication mode when the user is not detected in proximity to the device. The communication session may be maintained for a time-out period before entering the non-active mode. Further methods and systems include transitioning to a non-active communication mode in response to detecting a motion of the mobile device corresponding to a user placing the device on a surface.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09392421&OS=09392421&RS=09392421
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 09392421
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120523
---
This application is related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 479 246 entitled Systems and Methods for Group Communication Using a Mobile Device With Mode Transition Based On Motion U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 479 255 entitled Systems and Methods for Establishing A Group Communication Based on Motion of a Mobile Device and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 479 258 entitled Systems and Methods for Group Communication Using a Mobile Device Using Motion and Voice Activated Controls filed concurrently herewith all of which are incorporated herein by reference for the subject matter disclosed in their respective claims.

For group communications between mobile devices there exist a number of group communication applications such as Push to Talk PTT applications which utilize half duplex communication between two or more mobile devices. These applications may be utilized on various types of mobile devices such as smartphones which may employ a touchscreen interface. In such devices which may have few or no hardware buttons users must tap or touch the display instead of pressing a traditional hardware PTT button to request relinquish control of the floor in a half duplex group communication session. This need to touch the display screen can sometimes be problematic in the context of a touchscreen based device as it can be difficult to hold and maneuver the device handset while simultaneously touching manipulating the display screen. The most natural way to operate a handset during a group communication session is in speakerphone mode which enables the user to hear incoming voice communications and view media content while also making it easier to navigate and manipulate the touchscreen interface as needed.

Of course one drawback to using the mobile device in speakerphone mode is that it provides little privacy for the participants of the group communication. In order to speak in a more private manner such as when the user enters a crowded room or when the group conversation veers to sensitive subject matter the user must take a particular action to switch the device from speakerphone mode to earpiece mode before bringing the handset to his her ear. Similarly when the user desires to switch back to speaker mode the user must take another action to accomplish the switch from earpiece mode to speakerphone mode. Also when one user in the group switches from speakerphone mode to earpiece mode or vice versa there is no way for the other users in the group to know this has occurred.

The various embodiments include methods systems and devices for conducting group communications using a first mobile device including communicating with at least one second mobile device detecting a motion of the device corresponding to a user placing the mobile device on a surface maintaining the communication with the at least one second mobile device in an active mode while the user is detected in proximity to the device and entering a non active communication mode when the user is not detected in proximity to the device.

Further embodiments include methods systems and devices for conducting group communications using a first mobile device including communicating with at least one second mobile device detecting a motion of the device corresponding to a user placing the mobile device face down on a surface and entering a non active communication mode in response to the detected motion.

Further embodiments include methods systems and devices for conducting group communications using a first mobile device including communicating with at least one second mobile device over a communication channel detecting a motion of the first mobile device corresponding to a particular user action and in response to the detected motion entering a non active communication mode of communication with the at least one second mobile device.

Various embodiments include mobile communication devices and servers including processors configured to perform operations of the embodiment methods disclosed herein. Various embodiments also include mobile communication devices and servers including means for performing functions of the embodiment methods disclosed herein. Various embodiments also include non transitory processor and server readable storage media having stored thereon processor executable instructions configured to cause a processor to perform operations of the embodiment methods disclosed herein.

The various embodiments will be described in detail with reference to the accompanying drawings. Wherever possible the same reference numbers will be used throughout the drawings to refer to the same or like parts. References made to particular examples and implementations are for illustrative purposes and are not intended to limit the scope of the invention or the claims.

The word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any implementation described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other implementations.

The terms mobile device mobile computing device mobile communication device and wireless communication device are used interchangeably herein to refer to any one or all of cellular telephones smartphones personal or mobile mufti media players personal data assistants PDA s laptop computers tablet computers smartbooks palm top computers wireless electronic mail receivers multimedia Internet enabled cellular telephones wireless gaming controllers and similar personal electronic devices which include a programmable processor memory and transceiver circuitry for concluding group communication with at least one other mobile device.

In overview various embodiments include methods and systems of communication using a mobile device that includes detecting a movement of the mobile device associated with transitioning from speaker phone mode to earpiece mode or vice versa and in response to detecting such movement automatically transitioning the device to a different mode of operation. In particular the detected action may be the motion and or positioning of the device handset such as the movement of the handset towards or away from the user s ear and or the placement of the handset on a surface in a face up or face down position. How the device detects the motion and or positioning of the handset is not considered critical to the various embodiments of the invention. In general any suitable system or technique for detecting motion position and or orientation of a handset such as accelerometers gyroscopes or other sensors which can be correlated to a particular action of a user may be utilized.

In various embodiments the movement that is monitored and detected may be a motion of the device corresponding to the user bringing the device to his her ear. In response to detecting this motion the device may transition from a public mode of operation e.g. half duplex in speakerphone mode to a private mode of operation e.g. full duplex earpiece mode or traditional cellphone mode . Similarly another movement that may be monitored and detected may be a motion of the device corresponding to the user pulling the device away from his her ear. In response to detecting this motion the device may transition from a private mode of operation e.g. full duplex earpiece mode or traditional cellphone mode to a public mode of operation e.g. half duplex in speaker mode .

In these embodiments the transition between public mode and private mode may entail switching between half duplex and full duplex communication. The transition between public mode and private mode may also include a transition from sending receiving unencrypted data to encrypting the communication session and vice versa. The transition between public mode and private mode may also include changing the communication pathway of the call such as routing the call through a different network or server using a different security mode or transitioning from a server mediated communication to a direct peer to peer communication between two or more mobile devices.

In further embodiments the transition between private mode and public mode may also include sending a signal to other device s in a group communication session to inform the devices that the user has switched from public mode to private mode or vice versa. The transition between public and private mode in one device may force a similar transition in other device s in the group. In some embodiments the transition between public and private mode on one device may suspend or otherwise suppress communications until one or more other device s in the group signal their compliance with the new mode. Suppressing communications may involve suspending forced audio messages from one or more of the mobile devices in the group.

In further embodiments the device may transition to a different communication infrastructure in response to detecting a motion of the device corresponding to the user either bringing the device to his her ear or pulling the device away from his her ear. For example moving the phone away from the ear may cause the phone to unlock video or other media features such as by transitioning from 3G to 4G. As another example moving the phone to the ear may cause the phone to transition to higher quality voice communication. Transitioning to higher quality voice communications may include one or more of switching to a higher Quality of Service QOS utilizing a wider band codec or changing to a different codec and activating noise cancellation feature. In some embodiments moving the device to the ear may cause the device to re allocate resources e.g. bandwidth previously used for streaming video or other media content in order to provide higher quality voice communication.

In further embodiments the action that is detected may be the user placing the mobile device down on a stable and optionally non moving surface. In response to this action the device may remain in an active mode broadcasting received audio from the speaker. While the device is in this active mode the device may monitor for the presence or proximity of the user such as by detecting the user s voice detecting a movement of the device detecting the use of other device s by the user in the vicinity or using biometric sensors. When the device does not detect the presence of the user for a predetermined time period the device may enter a non active communication mode since the user may have stepped away from the device and thus cannot monitor the communication. In the non active communication mode the device may stop broadcasting received audio and enter a mute mode so that others cannot eavesdrop or butt into the conversation. In a further aspect of this embodiment the device may optionally record or buffer incoming communications for later playback when the user returns. In this embodiment the user s device may also optionally notify the other device s on the call that the user may not be listening or may have stepped away from the device even though the user s device remains connected to the group communication session. The device may return to an active mode in response to an action of the user e.g. the user picks up or moves the phone or the device otherwise detects the user s presence . In a further aspect of this embodiment the device may terminate the communication after a specified timeout period in the non active communication mode.

In further embodiments the action that is detected may be the user placing the mobile device face down on a surface which the device may treat as a command to 1 hang up or otherwise terminate the communication session or 2 enter a non active communication mode as described above. In the case of 2 entering a non active communication mode the phone may be configured to hang up or otherwise terminate the communication session after a specified timeout period.

In further embodiments the device may detect a voice command of a user and send a request to a server for control of the floor in a group communication session. Broadly speaking the fifth embodiment includes voice activated Push to Talk PTT communication. In various embodiments the device may send the request for the floor in a PTT communication session upon detecting the user speaking upon detecting the user speaking at a pre determined volume or upon detecting keyword s spoken by the user i.e. using voice recognition software . The detection of silence may trigger release of the floor which may be after a specified time out period. In one embodiment the device may relay voice commands from the user to the server such as the user commanding the server to grant the user s device floor access. In response to the voice command the server may queue up or schedule the user s device for floor control when it becomes available.

Further embodiments include methods and systems of communication using a mobile device that includes detecting a movement of the mobile device corresponding to a particular user action and in response to detecting such movement automatically establishing a new communication channel with one or more target device s . In other words a particular movement of the device e.g. a rotation flicking shaking of the device triggers a phone call being placed or the floor being requested in a half duplex communication session or a video call being started etc. In embodiments the new communication channel may be a synchronous communication channel such as a full duplex or half duplex voice or video channel as opposed to an asynchronous channel such as e mail or SMS .

Further embodiments include methods and systems for initiating and or controlling a half duplex communication application based on the detected motion of the device handset. For example during a PTT communication session a first mobile device may detect a first motion and in response to the detected motion the device may initiate or launch a half duplex group communication application such as a Push to Talk PTT application. A detected second motion may trigger the device to request the floor in a half duplex communication. A detected third motion may trigger the device to release the floor.

The various embodiments may be implemented within a variety of wireless communication systems an example of which is illustrated in . The communication system may include a plurality of mobile devices which may be configured to communicate via cellular telephone network a radio access network WiFi network WiMAX network and or other well known technologies. Mobile devices may be configured to receive and transmit voice data and control signals to and from a base station e.g. base transceiver station which may be coupled to a controller e.g. cellular base station radio network controller service gateway etc. operable to communicate the voice data and control signals between mobile devices and to other network destinations. The base station may communicate with an access gateway which may be a packet data serving node PDSN for example and which may serve as the primary point of entry and exit of wireless device traffic. The access gateway may be implemented in a single computing device or in many computing devices either within a single network or across a wide area network such as the Internet.

The access gateway may forward the voice data and control signals to other network components as user data packets provide connectivity to external packet data networks manage and store contexts e.g. network internal routing information etc. and act as an anchor between different technologies e.g. 3G and 4G systems . The access gateway may also coordinate the transmission and reception of data to and from the Internet and the transmission and reception of voice data and control information to and from an external service network connected to the Internet and other base stations and wireless receivers .

The access gateway may connect the receiver devices to a service network . The service network may control a number of services for individual subscribers such as management of billing data and selective transmission of data such as multimedia data to a specific receiver device . The service network may be implemented in a single computing device or in many computing devices either within a single network or across a wide area network such as the Internet . The service network may typically include one or more servers such as a group communication server described in further detail below.

The mobile device may be for example a smartphone a tablet computer a cellular telephone or any other suitable mobile device. In general the mobile devices may include a platform that can receive and execute software applications data and or commands transmitted over the wireless network that may ultimately come from the service network the Internet and or other remote servers and networks. The mobile device may include a transceiver operably coupled to a processor which may be an application specific integrated circuit ASIC microprocessor logic circuit or other data processing device. The processor may execute an application programming interface API layer that interfaces with any resident programs in an internal memory of the mobile device. The internal memory may be comprised of read only or random access memory RAM and ROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. The mobile device may also include a local database that stores applications not actively used in memory. The local database is typically a flash memory cell but may be any secondary storage device as known in the art such as magnetic media EEPROM optical media tape soft or hard disk or the like. The processor may also be operably coupled to external devices such as an antenna microphone speaker display keypad or other user input device such as a touchscreen device as is known in the art.

In embodiments the components of the mobile device may be provided in a compact housing i.e. a handset that enables the device to be held and easily manipulated by a user. The mobile device may also include at least one sensor that generates signals that may be interpreted by the processor to determine the motion position and or orientation of the device handset at any given time as is known in the art.

In conventional wireless communication systems a group communication session between two or more mobile devices may be arbitrated by a group communication server or a network of such servers e.g. collectively illustrated by server in . The subscribers to a particular group communication service e.g. a push to talk PTT service a push to transfer PTX service etc. are thereby permitted to communicate with other subscribers of the same service with messages being exchanged in a PTT communication session either through or at the control of the group communication server . In the case of a group audio session this means audio packets may be transmitted to the group communication server via the wireless network from one of the subscriber devices e.g. mobile devices and the server may forward the audio packets to one or more other subscriber devices actively participating in the group communication session. Likewise for group sessions involving other types of media e.g. text messages multimedia messages including video and or audio etc. other types of data packets may be exchanged between mobile devices of group members or subscribers during the session.

In various embodiments the group communication server may perform arbitration functions between competing demands of the various mobile devices for use of communication channels over the wireless network. For example in response to a request from wireless communication device to communicate with one or more other target devices in a communication group including all other devices in the group the server may establish a communication channel between the requesting device and all or a portion of the requested target devices in the group. The server may thus grant control of the floor to the requesting mobile device . In a half duplex communication session generally only one mobile device may have control of the floor at a given time. The mobile device with control of the floor may send voice and or other data and the other devices may only receive data. Where there exist competing requests amongst devices of the group for control of the floor the server may arbitrate between competing requests based on pre determined priority criteria. The priority criteria may be established at the time of the communication group formation such as by a group administrator and stored by the communication server . In embodiments the priority criteria may be default priority criteria stored by server . In some embodiments the priority criteria may be established on an ad hoc basis by one or more of the mobile devices e.g. in the group. The server may also maintain records for each communication group including the subscriber devices constituting each group and may also track the status of each mobile device in the group e.g. whether the device is available unavailable unreachable etc. .

Embodiments include methods and systems of communication using a mobile device that includes detecting a movement of the mobile device associated with a particular action by a user of the device and in response to detecting such movement transitioning the mobile device to a different mode of operation. In particular the user action may be a movement of the device handset such as the movement of the handset towards or away from the user s ear and or the placement of the handset on a surface in a face up or face down position. schematically illustrates various movements that may be detected by the mobile device according to various embodiments. shows a mobile device handset that includes a front surface a rear surface and at least one sensor for detecting the movement of the device. The sensor may be an accelerometer gyroscope or other sensors including combinations of sensors that may be used to detect a motion and or change in position orientation of a handset that may be correlated to a particular action by a user of the device.

In general it may typically be assumed that when the user of the first device switches from private mode to public mode e.g. moves the handset away from his her ear and switches to speakerphone mode the user is in a private setting or is otherwise not concerned about the communication session being overheard by third parties. In some cases however the user may not be paying attention to his her surroundings and may not realize that he she has inadvertently transitioned to a public mode during a conversation that is intended to be private. In some embodiments the first mobile device may provide feedback to the user of the first mobile device e.g. an audio visual and or haptic signal indicating that the device has transitioned to a public mode and in some embodiments the mobile device may suppress and or buffer incoming audio e.g. by suspending forced audio messages until the user indicates his her assent to the mode switch as is discussed in further detail below in connection with .

Of course the user s of the other device s in the communication session may object to the first user transitioning to public mode in what was initially a private conversation. By sending a message to the other device s indicating that the first device has transitioned to public mode the other user s may be made aware that the conversation may be less private than previously assumed and these users may adjust their conduct accordingly.

As shown in a first mobile device such as mobile device in may establish a communication session or be communicating with one or more second mobile device s such as device s and or in in a public mode in block . The first mobile device may receive a message from at least one second mobile device indicating that the at least one second mobile device has transitioned from a public mode to a private mode in block . As discussed above this message may be sent by the at least one second mobile device pursuant to block of embodiment method shown in and this message may be sent in response to a detected motion of the mobile device such as the motion from a first position to a second position indicated by dashed line in . In block of embodiment method the first mobile device may provide an indication to the user of the device that the at least one second mobile device has transitioned from a public mode to a private mode. In embodiments the indication may be a feedback cue e.g. an audio visual and or haptic signal perceptible to the user of the first mobile device indicating that the at least one other device in the group communication session has transitioned from a public mode to a private mode. The feedback cue may be the cessation of the audio feed from the at least one second mobile device. The user of the first device may thus be notified that at least one other user in the group communication session desires to speak in a more private manner. The first mobile device may also suppress e.g. suspending blocking or otherwise preventing audible playing the audio feed from the device that has transitioned to private mode in block . In an embodiment suppressing communication at the first mobile device may involve suspending forced audio messages from the mobile device. In this way the audio signals from a user who has transitioned his her device to private mode and presumably intending to converse more privately is not played on a mobile device operating in public mode which may have the speakerphone enabled and could easily be overheard by third parties.

While the first mobile device suppresses the audio from the at least one second mobile device operating in private mode at optional block the first mobile device may buffer or otherwise record the incoming audio feed from the at least one second mobile device for later playback. Suppressing and buffering communication at the first mobile device may involve suspending forced audio messages from the second mobile device. In this way the user of the first mobile device may chose to hear the suppressed portion of the group communication session when the device is in private mode or when the user is in a more private setting.

In embodiments the first mobile device may continue to buffer or record the audio until the communication session is terminated or may buffer or record for a pre determined time period after which the first mobile device may automatically terminate the call.

In embodiments the first mobile device may detect the user s compliance with the mode transition from public mode to private mode by the at least one second mobile device in block . In some embodiments the device may detect compliance with the mode transition by detecting motion of the device corresponding to the user bringing the handset to his her ear. The detected motion may be the motion corresponding to a transition between the first position and the second position indicated by dashed line in . As an alternative to or in addition to detecting motion of the device the first mobile device may detect an input from the user that may be received at a user interface e.g. a touchscreen display keypad etc. of the device indicating that the user complies with the mode transition. For example when the device provides the indication to the user of the transition from public mode to private mode by another device in the group communication the device may provide menu option s to the user such as the option to continue the call in a more private manner e.g. turn off speakerphone mode and continue the call in earpiece mode to continue the call in speakerphone mode e.g. where the user is unconcerned about third party eavesdropping of the conversation and or to terminate the call.

While the user has not indicated compliance with the mode transition i.e. determination block No the first mobile device may continue to suppress audio from the at least one second mobile device at block and may optionally buffer record the audio from the at least one second mobile device at block until either the group communication is terminated or in some embodiments for a pre determined timeout period after which the first mobile device may automatically end the call. When the first mobile device detects that the user is compliant with the transition from public mode to private mode i.e. determination block Yes then the first mobile device may resume the audio feed from the at least one second mobile device in block . Optionally the first mobile device may play back the buffered recorded audio from the at least one second mobile device in optional block . The first device may automatically play back the buffered recorded audio once compliance with the mode transition is detected i.e. allowing the user to hear the missed portion of the conversation and may continue to buffer record the conversation until the recorded portion of the conversation catches up to the live audio feed. In other embodiments the device may continue with the live audio feed and store the buffered recorded portion of the communication session in memory for later playback.

Embodiment methods include transitioning between a public mode and a private mode in a group communication session based on a detected movement of a mobile device handset. As discussed above the transition between public mode and private mode may include a change in the audio path of the mobile device. Specifically a transition between public mode and private mode may trigger a change from speakerphone mode to earpiece mode. Conversely the transition from private mode to public mode may trigger a change from earpiece mode to speakerphone mode. In addition to changing the audio path of the mobile device the transition from public mode to private mode may also include additional changes such as a change in the security settings of the communication session. For example when the mobile device is operating in public mode e.g. operating in speakerphone mode where the conversation may be overheard by third parties the security of the conversation may not be a paramount concern. In a public mode a less robust security posture may be maintained than when the device is operating in private mode where in general the security of the conversation is of greater concern. In some embodiments the transition between public mode and private mode may include a change in the encryption scheme used in encrypting data transmitted between the mobile devices in a group communication session and may include embodiments in which no encryption is used when the mobile device is in public mode and an encryption feature is activated when the device is in private mode.

In block of embodiment method a first mobile device such as mobile device in may transmit unencrypted messages to at least one second mobile device such as device s and or in . The first mobile device may operate in a public mode and may be in a first position such as shown in . The first mobile device may detect a motion of the device corresponding to the user bringing the handset to his her ear in block . The detected motion may be the motion corresponding to a transition between the first position and the second position indicated by dashed line in . In response to this detected motion the device may initiate an encryption feature on the first mobile device in block . The initiation of the encryption feature may be associated with a transition from a public mode to a private mode which may further include a change in an audio path from a speakerphone mode to an earpiece mode. With the encryption feature initiated the first mobile device may transmit encrypted messages to the at least one second mobile device in block .

In embodiments a change in security settings on one mobile device such as the initiation of an encryption feature in embodiment method may force a similar change in other devices that are participating in the group communication session. Thus changing a security setting in one device such as the initiation of an encryption feature in block of method may also include sending a message to the other device s in the communication session and or to a central server in order to implement the security setting change across all devices participating in the communication session.

As with the embodiment method the change in security setting e.g. from unencrypted to encrypted transmission in embodiment method may force a similar change in other devices in the communication session.

In block of embodiment method a first mobile device such as mobile device in may establish a half duplex communication channel with at least one other i.e. second mobile device such as device s and or in . The first mobile device may establish the half duplex communication channel in coordination with a central server such as group communication server shown in . The first mobile device may communicate with the at least one second mobile device over the half duplex communication channel in block . The device may communicate in a public mode e.g. with speakerphone activated and may be in a first position such as shown in . The first mobile device may detect a motion of the device corresponding to the user bringing the handset to his her ear in block . The detected motion may be the motion corresponding to a transition between the first position and the second position indicated by dashed line in . In response to this detected motion the device establish a full duplex communication channel with the at least one second mobile device in block . The first mobile device may establish the full duplex communication channel through the group communication server or through one or more different servers a different network or a different portion of the same network. In some embodiments the first mobile device may establish a direct connection to the at least one second mobile device over a wide area network such as the Internet . The first mobile device may communicate with the at least one second mobile device over the full duplex communication channel at block .

In embodiments a change from half duplex to full duplex communication in the first mobile device may force a similar change in other devices that are participating in the group communication session. Thus establishing a full duplex communication channel in block of embodiment method may also include sending a message to the other device s in the communication session and or to one or more servers in order to implement the change to full duplex communication across all devices participating in the communication session.

As with the embodiment method the change from full duplex to half duplex communication in embodiment method may force a similar change in other devices in the communication session. The first mobile device may establish the half duplex communication channel in coordination with a server such as group communication server in .

In block of embodiment method a first mobile device such as mobile device in may establish a communication channel with at least one second mobile device such as device s and or in over a first communication pathway. The first mobile device may establish the first communication pathway through a central server such as group communication server shown in . The first mobile device may communicate with the at least one second mobile device over the first communication pathway in block . The device may communicate in a public mode e.g. with speakerphone activated and may be in a first position such as shown in . The first mobile device may detect a motion of the device corresponding to the user bringing the handset to his her ear in block . The detected motion may be the motion corresponding to a transition between the first position and the second position indicated by dashed line in . In response to this detected motion the device establish a communication channel with the at least one second mobile device over a second communication pathway in block . The second communication pathway may be through a different network or server or through a different portion of the network. In embodiments the second communication pathway may be a peer to peer pathway as described above. The first mobile device may communicate with the at least one second mobile device over the second communication pathway at block .

The first mobile device may detect a motion of the device corresponding to the user moving the device handset away from his her ear in block . The detected motion may be the motion corresponding to a transition between the second position and the first position indicated by dashed line in . In response to this detected motion the device may re establish the first communication pathway and continue the communication session with the at least one second mobile device in block . In embodiments the transition from the second communication pathway back to the first communication pathway may include a transition from a peer to peer communication pathway to a server mediated pathway and may include sending a request to a central server such as group communication server to establish a group communication session between the mobile devices.

In embodiments a change from the first communication pathway to the second communication pathway and vice versa in the first mobile device may force a similar change in other devices that are participating in the group communication session.

The transition to a different communication infrastructure may include a transition to a different Quality of Service QoS for the call or use of different codecs for higher or lower quality audio transition. In embodiments the transition may enable or disable media features such as video features and could for example include a transition between a 3G and a 4G network infrastructure. Generally speaking according to some embodiments the detected movement of the user brining the handset towards his her ear may trigger enhanced audio features such as changing to a higher QoS and or a wider band codec i.e. using a different codec use of noise cancelation features etc. Conversely the detected movement of the user moving the device handset away from his her ear may enable enhanced video and or multimedia features. In embodiments the mobile device may reallocate resources such as bandwidth based on the detected movement of the device handset. For example when the device handset is held away from the user s ear the device may allocate certain resources to multimedia functions such as sending and receiving media files viewing videos and pictures etc. When the user moves the handset to his her ear there may be less need to support multimedia functions and the resources previously used to support these functions may be reallocated to higher quality audio i.e. voice communication. The resources may be reallocated back to multimedia functions when the user moves the handset away from his her ear.

In block of embodiment method a first mobile device such as mobile device in may establish a communication channel with at least one other i.e. second mobile device such as device s and or in using a first communication infrastructure. The first mobile device may communicate with the at least one second mobile device using the first communication infrastructure in block . The device may be in a first position such as shown in . The first mobile device may detect a motion of the device corresponding to the user bringing the handset to his her ear in block . The detected motion may be the motion corresponding to a transition between the first position and the second position indicated by dashed line in . In response to this detected motion the device may transition to a second communication infrastructure in block . The first mobile device may communicate with the at least one second mobile device using the second communication infrastructure at block . The first mobile device may detect a motion of the device corresponding to the user moving the device handset away from his her ear in block . The detected motion may be the motion corresponding to a transition between the second position and the first position indicated by dashed line in . In response to this detected motion the device may transition back to the first communication infrastructure in block .

In block of embodiment method a first mobile device such as mobile device in may communicate with at least one other i.e. second mobile device such as device s and or in in a group communication session. The first mobile device may detect a motion of the device corresponding to a placement of the device on a stable surface in block . The detected motion may be the motion corresponding to a transition between the first position and the third position indicated by dashed line in . In some embodiments the device may discriminate between the user putting the device down on stationary surface and the user putting the device down on a moving surface such as when the device is in a moving vehicle in which case it may be assumed that the user is still paying attention to the communication session. In embodiments the device may also differentiate between the user putting the device down face up illustrated by the third position in and putting the device down face down illustrated by the fourth position in which may cause the device to enter a separate operating mode described in further detail below. In other embodiments the device may not differentiate between a face up and a face down orientation.

In response to the detected motion of the device in block the mobile device may enter an active mode in which the device maintains active in the communication session in block . When in the active mode the device may monitor for the presence of the user in proximity to the device in block . To determine the presence of the user the device may use any suitable technique for inferring the presence of the user such as the user picking up or moving the device biometric detection techniques voice recognition etc.

While the device detects the presence of the user i.e. determination block Yes the device may remain in active mode in block and may continue to monitor for the presence of the user in block . When the user is not detected i.e. determination block No the device may wait a predetermined timeout period. During the timeout period i.e. determination block No the device may continue to monitor for the user in block . If the user is detected the device may remain in active mode and re set the timeout period. Upon the expiration of the timeout period i.e. determination block Yes the device may enter a non active communication mode in block .

In embodiments when the device enters a non active communication mode it may be inferred that the user is no longer listening to or participating in the group communication session. Upon entering the non active communication mode the device may mute or otherwise suppress the incoming audio and or video feed. Optionally the first mobile device may send a message to the at least one second mobile device to indicate that the first mobile device is in a non active communication mode in block . Thus the other participants in the session may be informed that the user of the first mobile device may not be paying attention to the call. In an embodiment suppressing communication may involve suspending forced audio messages from the other mobile devices in the group. The device optionally may provide feedback to the user that the device is entering non active communication mode e.g. the device may provide a beep or audio tone the display screen or an indicator light may flash yellow etc. . The device may remain in a non active communication mode in block . Optionally while the device is in non active communication mode the device may buffer or otherwise record incoming voice and or other data for later playback in optional block . The device may continue to monitor for the presence of the user in block . Thus if for example the user has stepped out of the room and returns while the device is in non active communication mode the device may detect the presence of the user i.e. determination block Yes and the device may resume the communication session in an active mode in block .

In embodiments the device may remain in a non active communication mode for a pre determined timeout period. The timeout period may be the same as or different than the timeout period while the device is in active mode. In embodiments either or both timeout periods may be set or modified by the user. During the timeout period i.e. determination block No the device may remain in a non active communication mode monitoring for the presence of the user and optionally buffering or recording incoming communications. After the expiration of the timeout period i.e. determination block Yes assuming the user s presence has not been detected i.e. determination block No the device may end the communication session in block .

It will be noted that while the device is in active mode or non active communication mode as described above the device may detect a motion of the device handset corresponding to the user picking up the handset from the surface e.g. the motion indicated by dashed line in and the detection of this motion may be sufficient to return the device to a normal communication mode such as the public mode and or private mode described above .

In block of embodiment method a first mobile device such as mobile device in may communicate with at least one other i.e. second mobile device such as device s and or in in a group communication session. The first mobile device may detect a motion of the device corresponding to a placement of the device face down on a surface in block . The detected motion may be a motion indicated by dashed lines or in .

In response to the detected motion in block the device may enter a non active communication mode in block . In embodiments when the device enters a non active communication mode it may be inferred that the user no longer intends to participate in the group communication session. Upon entering the non active communication mode the device may mute or otherwise suppress the incoming audio and or video feed. Optionally the first mobile device may send a message to the at least one second mobile device to indicate that the first mobile device is in a non active communication mode in block . Thus the other participants in the session may be informed that the user of the first mobile device does not intend to continue the session. In an embodiment suppressing communications may involve suspending forced audio messages from at least one other mobile device. The device may remain in a non active communication mode in block . As in the embodiment method of while the device is in the non active communication mode the device may buffer or otherwise record incoming voice and or other data for later playback.

The device may remain in a non active communication mode for a pre determined timeout period i.e. determination block Yes . The timeout period may be the same as or different than the timeout periods described above in connection with embodiment method . In general the timeout period in embodiment method may be relatively short e.g. 5 10 seconds optionally less than 5 seconds such as 1 2 seconds or less since the placement of the device handset in a face down position may indicate that the user does not wish to continue the communication session. However the user may have inadvertently placed the device in a face down position and the timeout period may give the user an opportunity to exit the non active communication mode and resume the communication session. As shown in for example while the device is in the non active communication mode the device may determine whether the device has been moved. If the device has been moved i.e. determination block Yes then the device may exit the non active communication mode and resume the communication in block . In some embodiments any detected movement of the device during the non active communication mode may be sufficient to exit the non active communication mode and return to the communication session. In other embodiments the non active communication mode may be exited by picking up the handset from the surface e.g. the motion indicated by dashed line in and or by turning the handset over to a face up position e.g. the motion indicated by dashed line in .

In block of embodiment method a first mobile device such as mobile device in may communicate with at least one other i.e. second mobile device such as device s and or in in a group communication session. The group communication session may be a half duplex communication session such as a Push to Talk communication session. The group communication session may be under the control of a central server such as group communication server shown in . The server may arbitrate control of the floor for half duplex communication between the mobile devices participating in the communication session i.e. the communication group .

The first mobile device may monitor external audio signals in block . In embodiments the device may use the device s microphone to listen for certain external sounds such as the voice of a user of the device. The device may monitor the external audio when the device is not actively transmitting voice data i.e. when the device has not been granted the floor . The first mobile device may determine whether a detected audio signal is a recognized voice command to a group communication server in block . In some embodiments this may include analyzing the detected audio signal e.g. using voice recognition software to determine if it corresponds to a command to the group communication server. In embodiments the first mobile device may analyze the detected audio signal for particular keyword s associated with a command for example. In other embodiments the first mobile device may simply listen for the sound of the user s voice and when the user s voice is detected the device may transmit the audio signal to the group communication server . The server may include functionality to analyze and interpret the transmitted voice command. In embodiments the first mobile device may detect the sound of the user s voice and if the voice is detected above a pre determined threshold volume the device will treat the detected voice signal as a voice command to the group communication server.

The first mobile device may continue to monitor external audio signals when no recognized voice command is detected i.e. determination block No . When the first mobile device detects a voice command i.e. determination block Yes the device may transmit the command to the group communication server in block . As discussed above in some embodiments the first mobile device may analyze and interpret the voice command using voice recognition software for example and prior to transmitting the command convert the signal into an appropriate data format that may be recognized by the server. In other embodiments the mobile device may simply relay the voice command from the user to the server where the server may analyze and interpret the voice command. The first mobile device may optionally provide feedback to the user that a voice command has been received at the device and forwarded to the server .

The voice command may be any command used in a group communication session such a command to commence a communication session with a particular communication group to terminate the session to add or drop group members from a communication session to send or download media files and so forth. In particular the voice command may be a command to request the floor in a group communication session. In some embodiments the detection of the user speaking optionally above a threshold volume level may be sufficient to cause the mobile device to request control of the floor from the group communication server . In embodiments the user may simply begin speaking without waiting for floor access. Upon detection of the user s voice the mobile device may transmit a request for the floor and buffer or otherwise record the user s message while waiting for floor access. When floor access is granted by the server the device may transmit the buffered message to the communication group. In other embodiments the user may explicitly request the floor using a voice command e.g. floor I want the floor etc. and then wait until the server grants the floor before transmitting his her message. In contrast to some half duplex group communication systems which may require a user to repeatedly request the floor such as by pressing a Push to Talk button until the floor is open embodiments of the present voice activated group communication method and system may enable the user to request the floor once via a voice command and then wait for the floor to be granted by the group communication server . The first mobile device may receive a response message from the group communication server indicating the floor has been granted to the user s device in block and the first mobile device may transmit voice and or other data to the at least one second mobile device in block . The first mobile device may optionally provide feedback to the user that the floor has been granted by the server.

When the user is finished speaking the user may relinquish the floor using any suitable means such as by pressing a button or key on a user interface or by touching a touchscreen interface. In embodiments the floor may be relinquished using a voice command e.g. a particular keyword or keyword string not likely to be used in regular conversation . is a process flow diagram illustrating an embodiment method in which the mobile device may detect when the user has finished speaking i.e. when the user is silent and based on the detected silence the device may relinquish control of the floor. The first mobile device may receive external audio signals such as the user s voice in block and transmit the signals e.g. voice data over the group communication channel to at least one second mobile device in block . While the mobile device continues to detect external sound i.e. determination block No the device may continue to transmit the voice data to the other device s in block . When the device detects silence i.e. determination block Yes the detected silence may trigger the start of a timeout period. The timeout period may have a duration that is sufficient to infer that the user has finished speaking and would like to relinquish control of the floor e.g. generally around 1 second or more . During the timeout period i.e. determination block No the device may continue to monitor for external audio signals and if such signals are detected i.e. determination bock No the device may continue to transmit the signals in block and restart the timeout period when the device next detects silence. When the timeout period expires i.e. determination block Yes the device may close the communication channel in block and send a message to the group communication server relinquishing control of the floor in block .

In block of embodiment method the server may initiate a group communication session between two or more mobile devices. The group communication session may be initiated and operated similar to any conventional half duplex group communication session such as a conventional Push to Talk session. The server may receive audio voice messages from the mobile devices in the group communication session in block . The audio voice messages may include voice commands from users of the mobile devices. In block the server may interpret the voice messages to determine the particular requests for action by the server in the respective voice messages. The requests for action may include requests for access to the floor in the group communication session for example. The server may schedule floor access for the requesting mobile devices in response to the received requests for action in block . In block the server may send messages to the mobile devices indicating the status of floor control. The messages may inform the respective devices that for example the floor request is granted the floor request is not granted or that the device is scheduled for floor access at a later time.

Various embodiments include methods and systems of communicating using a first mobile device that include establishing a new communication channel with at least one other i.e. second mobile device in response to a detected motion of the first device. illustrates an embodiment method for establishing a new communication channel with at least one second mobile device in response to a detected motion of a first mobile device. In block of embodiment method a first mobile device may detect a motion of the device corresponding to a particular user action. The detected motion may be any movement or change in position or orientation of the device that may be correlated to a particular action by the user. For example the detected motion may be any of the motions schematically illustrated in such as the motion of the user bringing the device towards or away from his her ear. The detected motion may also be a flicking motion a shaking motion etc. In some embodiments the detected motion may be the rotation of the device handset such as the user rotating the handset by 90 by 180 or by any arbitrary amount.

The mobile device may be configured with accelerometers and gyroscopes as are common in many smartphones and the processor may be configured to monitor such sensors in block to determine when such sensor outputs match thresholds and or patterns in memory correlated to particular actions. In an embodiment mobile device motion measurements correlated to particular user actions may be defined by the user such as via a menu interface and or a training routine. Thus operations that are encompassed in block as well as blocks and discussed below may include continuously monitoring accelerometer gyroscope and or other motion sensors when in an active state and comparing sensor data received from such sensors within a sampling interval to patterns of motion sensor data stored in memory correlated to particular actions or commands. When a match is detected the mobile device processor may initiate the action correlated to the matched pattern. In the various embodiments that action may include establishing a new communication link and proceeding as described below.

In response to detecting a motion correlated to ensuring continuity of communications the first mobile device may establish a new communication channel with at least one other i.e. second device such as device s in in block . In some embodiments the first device may have already established an initial communication channel either a synchronous or asynchronous communication channel with the at least one second mobile device and in response to the detected motion the first mobile device may establish a new communication channel with the second device. For example the first mobile device may be communicating with the at least one second mobile device using asynchronous messaging e.g. SMS or e mail and in response to the detected motion may establish a synchronous communication channel with the at least one second mobile device. In other embodiments the devices may be communicating over one type of synchronous communication channel e.g. a half duplex voice channel and in response to the detected motion the first mobile device may establish a different synchronous communication channel e.g. a full duplex voice channel or video channel . In other embodiments the devices may initially not be communicating at all and the first mobile device may establish a communication channel e.g. initiate a phone video call with the at least one second mobile device in response to the detected motion. In another embodiment the first mobile device may be participating in a half duplex or Push to talk group communication session with the at least one second mobile device and in response to the detected motion the first mobile device may establish a new communication channel by requesting the floor from a central server. In block the first mobile device may communicate with the at least one second mobile device over the new communication channel.

In optional block the first mobile device may detect a second motion of the mobile device correlated to terminating a redundant channel or otherwise exiting a communication mode and in response to the detected second motion may close the new communication channel with the at least one second mobile device in optional block . For example the first detected motion may be the motion of the user bringing the device to his her ear and the detected second motion may be the motion of the user moving the device away from his her ear. Alternatively the first detected motion may be the motion of the user moving the device away from his her ear and the detected second motion may be the motion of the user moving the device towards his her ear. The detected second motion may be any movement or change in position or orientation of the device that may be performed by the user such as placing the mobile device on a surface removing the device from a surface a flicking motion a shaking motion a rotational motion of the device etc.

In various embodiments closing the new communication channel in optional block may terminate the communication session with the at least one second mobile device. In other embodiments when the new communication channel is closed in optional block the first device may continue the communication session with the at least one second mobile device by transitioning to a different communication channel which may be a previous communication channel used by the first mobile device for communicating with the at least one second mobile device.

In response to the detected motion the first mobile device may establish a new communication channel with the at least one second mobile device in block . The new communication channel may be a different communication channel than the initial communication channel. For example the initial communication channel may be an asynchronous communication channel and the new communication channel may be a synchronous communication channel. For example the first mobile device may be communicating with at least one second mobile device asynchronously such as via SMS or texting and in response to the detected motion which may be a movement of the device to the user s ear for instance the first device may establish a new synchronous communication channel with the at least one second mobile device. The new synchronous communication channel may be a half duplex or full duplex voice channel or a video channel for example. In other embodiments the initial communication channel may be a first synchronous communication channel and the new communication channel may be a different synchronous communication channel. For example the detected motion of the device may cause the device to transition between half duplex and full duplex communication channels such as described above in connection with . In other embodiments a detected motion of the mobile device such as shaking or flicking the device rotating the device handset by 90 180 or by any arbitrary amount etc. may cause the device to transition between a synchronous voice communication channel e.g. half or full duplex and a synchronous multimedia communication channel e.g. video telephony and vice versa. In block the first device may communicate with the at least one second mobile device over the new communication channel.

In block the first mobile device may determine at least one second mobile device based on the user interface context presented to the user of the first mobile device. The user interface may be a display screen such as a touchscreen interface which may display text and or graphical elements to the user. In embodiments a unique identifier e.g. phone number URL etc. associated with the at least one second mobile device and useable for establishing a communication channel with the at least one second mobile device may be stored on the first mobile device e.g. in a stored contact list . The first mobile device may determine the at least one second mobile device by associating one or more textual graphical elements displayed on the user interface with a particular device or devices stored in the first mobile device s stored contacts. In some embodiments the first mobile device may determine the at least one second mobile device based on a unique identifier e.g. phone number URL etc. for the device being displayed on the user interface e.g. on a web page e mail vCard etc. whether or not the device associated with the identifier is already stored in the first device s contact list.

There are various ways in which the first mobile device may extrapolate the identity of one or more second mobile devices with which the user intends to connect to from the user interface context presented to the user. In various embodiments the first mobile device may identify at least one second mobile device when for example one or more contacts associated with another mobile device is highlighted or selected on the user interface. In embodiments the first mobile device may identify at least one second mobile device when a conversation window is displayed that implies that the user is in conversation with one contact or with more than one contact i.e. a group of contacts . In embodiments the conversation window may be a means to identify at least one other device based on a conversation window being displayed on the screen where the conversation window may be a scrollable region of the display that contains an ongoing conversation with another user. If the user of the first mobile device has a conversation window on screen when the motion is detected block then the first device may infer that a new communication channel should be initiated with at least one second mobile device associated with the user or users represented in the conversation window. In embodiments the first mobile device may identify at least one second mobile device when a photograph of a contact e.g. a user of a stored contact device is displayed and or when a video of a contact is displayed. The first mobile device may identify particular individuals depicted in a multimedia file e.g. a photo or video through metadata such as tagging data associated with the file and or via facial or voice recognition software. In embodiments the first mobile device may identify at least one second mobile device when a calendar event is displayed that is common with one or more contacts. In embodiments the first mobile device may identify at least one second mobile device when a particular location such as a map location is displayed where the at least one second mobile device is known to be at the particular location.

The first mobile device may establish a new communication channel with the at least one second mobile device in block . The new communication channel may be an asynchronous communication channel or a synchronous communication channel such as a half duplex or full duplex voice channel a video channel a streaming touchpoints channel etc. As used herein touchpoints is a feature name for the ability for a user to press or touch on certain regions of media content e.g. picture video etc. displayed on his her screen on a first device while in a synchronous session with another user that has the same media content displayed on his her screen on a second device where the region that is touched on the first device may be animated or otherwise indicated on the second device. For example if the first user touches the upper left hand portion of a picture the second user may see an animation or other indication in the upper left hand portion of the same picture on his her device.

In some embodiments before establishing the new communication channel the first mobile device may determine the type of the new communication channel to establish based on the detected motion the user interface context or both in optional block . For example if the detected motion corresponds to the user bringing the device handset to his her ear then the new communication channel may be a voice channel such as a full duplex voice channel. On the other hand if the detected motion corresponds to the user bringing the handset in front of his her face then the new communication channel may be a half duplex e.g. Push to Talk voice channel or a video channel. In addition the first mobile device may determine the type of communication channel to establish based on the user interface context being presented to the user. For example if the user interface displays a call history screen with a particular contact highlighted then the first mobile device may infer that the new communication channel should be a voice call. If the user interface displays a video clip in which a particular contact is present then the first mobile device may infer that the new communication channel should be a video call. If the user interface displays a photo of the contact then the first mobile device may infer that the new communication channel should be a touchpoints call and so forth. As discussed above a touchpoints call may include a conversation or session through which two or more users may share media content such as a picture video slide presentation etc. and which a user may visually indicate portions or features of the content on another user s device.

In embodiments the type of new communication channel to establish may also be determined based on prior communication sessions with the at least one second communication device. For example if the last communication session with a particular contact was a video chat then the first mobile device may infer that the new communication channel with the same contact should be a video channel.

The mobile device may remain in a non active communication mode for a pre determined timeout period i.e. while determination block No . The timeout period may be variable and in some embodiments may be programmable by the user. In general the timeout period in embodiment method may be relatively short e.g. 1 minute or less such as 5 30 seconds optionally less than 5 seconds such as 1 2 seconds or less since the detected second motion may indicate that the user does not wish to continue the communication session. However the user may have inadvertently or temporarily moved the device with the intent to resume or continue the communication session so the timeout period may provide the user an opportunity to exit the non active communication mode and resume the communication session. As shown in for example while the mobile device is in a non active communication mode a processor of the device may determine whether the device has been moved. If the mobile device has been moved i.e. determination block Yes the device processor may determine whether the detected motion corresponds to the first user action in block . For example the detected motion may correspond to the user moving the device towards his or her ear indicating an intent to continue the communication. If the detected motion is correlated to the first user action i.e. determination block Yes the mobile device may resume the communication over the communication channel in block . If the detected motion is not correlated to the first user action i.e. determination block No then the device may be maintained in the non active communication mode in block . If the device is not moved i.e. determination block No and the timeout period expires i.e. determination block Yes then the communication channel may be closed in block .

Various embodiments include methods and system for initiating and or controlling a half duplex communication session based on the detected motion of the mobile device handset. In such embodiments a first mobile device may detect a first motion and in response to the detected motion the device may initiate or launch a half duplex group communication application such as a Push to Talk PTT application. For example the user may be conducting asynchronous messaging with at least one second mobile device and by rotating the handset by a pre determined amount e.g. 180 the device may automatically initiate a half duplex group communication session. The detected first motion may trigger a change in the user interface context i.e. the device may display icons or other visual feedback associated with half duplex communication such as a virtual PTT button and in some embodiments may automatically request the floor for group communication with at least one second mobile device.

In response to the detected motion the first mobile device may initiate a half duplex group communication application e.g. a PTT application in block . The device may display visual feedback associated with the half duplex communication on a display screen of the mobile device in block . In an embodiment the detected motion of the device handset may cause a change in a user interface context such that the device may display icons or other visual feedback associated with half duplex communication such as a virtual PTT button. The device may display contact information such as name s icon s photograph s etc. associated with at least one other i.e. second mobile device that forms a communication group e.g. PTT group with the first mobile device . In some instances the first mobile device may be communicating with at least one other mobile device over an initial communication channel such as an asynchronous channel and based on the detected motion of the device the first mobile device may initiate a half duplex communication session with the at least one second mobile device. The of the user interface context may change to indicate that the first mobile communication device is now in a half duplex group communication session with the at least one second mobile device.

In some embodiments in response to the detected motion the first mobile device may initiate a half duplex communication session with the last communication group with which the first mobile device was previously engaged in a half duplex communication session. The of the user interface context may change to indicate that the first mobile device is now in a group communication session with this communication group.

In some embodiments in response to the detected motion the first mobile device may initiate a half duplex communication session with at least one other mobile device based on the of the user interface context at the time the half duplex communication session is initiated. For example the user may scroll through highlight or otherwise display one or more contacts on the user interface and based on the detected movement of the first device a group communication session may be initiated with the mobile device s associated with these contact s . In some embodiments the user interface may display a photograph video or other media file containing one or more contacts or a web page or other graphical textual elements associated with one or more contacts and based on the detected movement of the first device a group communication session may be initiated with the mobile device s associated with these contact s . The of the user interface context may change to indicate that the first mobile device is now in a group communication session with the mobile device s associated with these contact s .

In some embodiments the detected first motion may cause the first mobile device to automatically request the floor for communication with the at least one second mobile device as shown in optional block .

In block the first mobile device may detect a third motion of the mobile device. In response to the detected third motion the first mobile device may release control of the floor in the group communication session in block . For example the detected second motion may be a rotation of the handset which causes the device to request the floor and a detected third motion such as a rotation of the handset back to its previous orientation may trigger a release of the floor.

In optional bock the first mobile device may detect a fourth motion of the mobile device. In response to the detected fourth motion the device may establish a full duplex communication channel with the at least one second mobile device in optional block . For example the detected fourth motion may be a motion corresponding to the user bringing the device to his her ear which may trigger a transition from a half duplex communication to a full duplex communication.

In optional block the first mobile device may detect a fifth motion of the device. In response to the detected fifth motion the device may close the communication channel with the at least one second mobile device. For example the fifth motion may correspond to the user placing the mobile device face up or face down on a surface or any motion that may indicate that the user intends to end the communication session.

The various embodiments may be implemented on the data transmission side on any of a variety of commercially available server devices such as the server illustrated in . Such a server typically includes a processor coupled to volatile memory and a large capacity nonvolatile memory such as a disk drive . The server may also include a floppy disc drive compact disc CD or DVD disc drive coupled to the processor . The server may also include network access ports coupled to the processor for establishing data connections with a network such as a local area network coupled to other broadcast system computers and servers. Servers may also include operator interfaces such as a keyboard pointer device e.g. a computer mouse and a display .

The processors may be any programmable microprocessor microcomputer or multiple processor chip or chips that can be configured by software instructions applications to perform a variety of functions including the functions of the various embodiments described below. In some mobile receiver devices multiple processors may be provided such as one processor dedicated to wireless communication functions and one processor dedicated to running other applications. Typically software applications may be stored in the internal memory before they are accessed and loaded into the processor . The processor may include internal memory sufficient to store the application software instructions.

The foregoing method descriptions and the process flow diagrams are provided merely as illustrative examples and are not intended to require or imply that the steps of the various embodiments must be performed in the order presented. As will be appreciated by one of skill in the art the order of steps in the foregoing embodiments may be performed in any order. Words such as thereafter then next etc. are not intended to limit the order of the steps these words are simply used to guide the reader through the description of the methods. Further any reference to claim elements in the singular for example using the articles a an or the is not to be construed as limiting the element to the singular.

The various illustrative logical blocks modules circuits and algorithm steps described in connection with the aspects disclosed herein may be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks modules circuits and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled artisans may implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the present invention.

The hardware used to implement the various illustrative logics logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the aspects disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration. Alternatively some steps or methods may be performed by circuitry that is specific to a given function.

In one or more exemplary aspects the functions described may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions may be stored as one or more instructions or code on a non transitory computer readable storage medium or non transitory processor readable storage medium. The steps of a method or algorithm disclosed herein may be embodied in a processor executable software module which may reside on a non transitory computer readable or processor readable storage medium. Non transitory computer readable or processor readable storage media may be any media that may be accessed by a computer or a processor. By way of example and not limitation such non transitory computer readable or processor readable media may include RAM ROM EEPROM FLASH memory CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that may be used to store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that may be accessed by a computer. Disk and disc as used herein includes compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above are also included within the scope of non transitory computer readable and processor readable media. Additionally the operations of a method or algorithm may reside as one or any combination or set of codes and or instructions on a non transitory processor readable medium and or computer readable medium which may be incorporated into a computer program product.

The preceding description of the disclosed aspects is provided to enable any person skilled in the art to make or use the present invention. Various modifications to these aspects will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art and the generic principles defined herein may be applied to other aspects without departing from the scope of the invention. Thus the present invention is not intended to be limited to the aspects shown herein but is to be accorded the widest scope consistent with the principles and novel features disclosed herein.

