---

title: Data recovery service with automated identification and response to compromised user credentials
abstract: A data recovery service protects against unauthorized use of a computer system. The service includes a data feed that contains data recovered from online repositories known to be used by malicious software or individuals, the recovered data identifying a compromised credential of an authorized user of the computer system. Based on this data, a protective action is automatically performed to limit or prevent use of the credential of the authorized user to access the computer system. Protective action may include disabling user account access privileges, etc.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08978150&OS=08978150&RS=08978150
owner: EMC Corporation
number: 08978150
owner_city: Hopkinton
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120627
---
One of the activities of concern in computer security is identity theft specifically the theft or other unauthorized obtaining of credentials that enable users to access a protected computer system. Such credentials can include among other things account names and passwords the latter normally required to be treated confidentially to prevent unauthorized use i.e. use by somebody other than an authorized user to whom the password is assigned for use in accessing the system . An unauthorized person obtaining the credentials of an authorized user can pose as that authorized user and engage in activity that may harm the user the operator of the system or others. For example if the computer system controls access to an organization s intellectual property such as computer program source code inventions etc. an unauthorized person may be able to access the system and manipulate and or steal the intellectual property.

In some cases credential theft is facilitated by certain types of software referred to as malware that surreptitiously inhabits a user computer and monitors operation so as to obtain confidential information that is exposed during such operation. One well known example of such malware includes a so called key logger which by directly monitoring a user s keystrokes can thwart software mechanisms in the computer designed to protect a user s password or other confidential information. Other examples of malware functions include document capturing screen scraping capturing the user s screen at a certain instant network probing and more. Once the malware has collected this confidential information it secretly exfiltrates it from the computer system to an Internet location making it available to unauthorized persons who can use the information to obtain illegal access to the computer system protected by the password or similar user credential.

Generally in the past credential theft has been detected only after a stolen credential is used to access a user account in an unauthorized manner. In many cases the fact that a user identity or credential has been compromised is not detected until such an unauthorized access occurs creating a significant security risk.

Additionally existing techniques for processing information pertaining to stolen credentials requires human users to review the information and initiate protective action such as disabling a user account. This makes the process relatively slow as well as error prone thus limiting effectiveness.

A technique is disclosed that addresses credential theft especially by malware but other means as well. The technique has a proactive characteristic that enables detection and protective action before a compromised credential can be used in an unauthorized way. In particular the technique provides for automatic detection and initiation of protective action and thus may be fast accurate and flexibly deployed in contrast to known techniques requiring human involvement. The technique also can leverage the capabilities of existing identity management systems such as Active Directory Identity Guard etc. to effect a desired protective action in an automated way.

According to a disclosed method for protecting against unauthorized use of a computer system a data recovery service is utilized that employs a data feed that contains data recovered from online repositories known to be used by malicious software or individuals the recovered data identifying compromised user credentials of one or more authorized users of the computer system. Then a protective action is performed to limit or prevent use of a compromised credential to access the computer system. As mentioned protective action may include things like disabling user account access privileges etc.

The arrangement includes a user machine such as a personal computer or other personal data processing device of a user. As indicated by dashed lines the user machine may be part of or separate from the service system . A common example of the user machine being part of a service system is a corporate intranet where the user machine may be a workstation located in an employee s office and connected to the services via one or more networks. Alternatively the user machine may be separate from the service system such as in the case of an online service provided at a publically accessible web site in this case the user machine may be a smart phone or a personal computing device at a user s home for example. In this description the term service refers to the functionality of computer s executing computer program s to perform data processing tasks in response to user requests.

In one embodiment the service system employs an identity management system as shown. The identity management system is a sub system specially tailored to provide functions of creating protecting and managing identities that are associated with users of the services . In one example an online banking service may employ an identity management system to enable a user to create user identification information such as user account name and password then to assist with authenticating users as a condition to allowing access to the services . Authentication may take the form for example of requiring a user to correctly enter the previously established identification information user name and password that is stored in the identity management system . In other embodiments user identity management and authentication may be integrated into the service s or provided in some other manner.

As described above the user machine may become inhabited or infected by malware MW such as a Trojan or similar program capable of capturing confidential user information that can be used to breach security of the service system . The term persistent threat is also used herein to describe these kinds of programs. As an example the malware may capture a user name and password entered into the user machine by a user when accessing a service . Typically such malware also captures a variety of other information such as a network name and address of the user machine and perhaps of the service s etc. In many cases the malware has a logging or similar function that forwards captured confidential information to a separate computer in a remote location such as a so called drop site as shown. In one example several separate instances of the malware collect user names and passwords from a large number of infected user machines and forward this information to drop site . The intended use for this information may be to enable illicit improper use of services by cyber criminals. Such mechanisms and their use are generally known in the art of computer security. It is assumed for purposes of this description that the drop site or other remote computer is part of the Internet and accessible in at least a limited way from other computers such as via a Web browser file transfer protocol etc.

The operator of the service system employs a data recovery service as part of a security strategy. The data recovery service includes a server having communications channels to a local utility . The local utility may be integrated into the service system such as by installation as part of the identity management system for example or it may reside outside the service system and have a defined communication interface thereto.

The data recovery service is employed to detect the publication of confidential information of the service system or its users including user machines so that protective action can be taken to prevent or otherwise address any potential security breach enabled by the publication of such confidential information. To this end the data recovery service employs security specialists typically human but may include automated mechanisms such as bots that regularly scan accessible systems such as drop site that are used by hackers cyber criminals and their associated malware to publicize confidential information obtained illegally. The security specialists locate such information at the drop site and create reports or other organizations of such recovered data on server . This data populates a data feed distributed to utilities of the service . The data feed includes reports identifying compromised user credentials e.g. account names and passwords discovered on the drop site .

Generally the data recovery service is provided with information about the service system and or the user machines to enable the data recovery service to look for pertinent data at a drop site and use the data to initiate protective and or remedial action also referred to as mitigation . For example the data recovery service receives a listing of the network addresses of all vulnerable computers in the service system then compares network addresses occurring in the server against this list so as to identify any data pertaining to such computers. Other information may include information describing user accounts and or identities. This information is used to populate the data feed .

As shown in the utility may be set up inside the service system . The utility goes out to the server to obtain data the data feed then provides notifications internally within the service system if mitigation is required. In a system having an identity management system such as shown in the utility may use a specialized application programming interface API to the identity management system . This API may also include features enabling the utility to request protective action by the identity management system with respect to one or more user accounts or identities usable as described below.

The services identity management system and utility may be implemented by one or more computers executing corresponding sets of computer program instructions. In the case of an online service for example a collection of computers may be required to provide sufficient computing resources to meet an expected load from users. Partitioning of functions among different computers is generally known in the art. shows an example hardware configuration of a computer that may be employed. It includes one or more processors PROC S memory MEM and interface circuitry INTFC all interconnected by data interconnections such as one or more high speed data buses. The interface circuitry provides a hardware connection to external network s and perhaps other external devices connections EXT DEVs . The processor s with connected memory may also be referred to as processing circuitry herein. In operation the memory stores data and instructions of an operating system and one or more application programs which are executed by the processor s to cause the computer to function in a corresponding manner. Thus the hardware executing the instructions of a service application program may be referred to as a service component or service and the hardware executing instructions of a utility program may be referred to as a utility component or utility . It will be understood that a collection of such components can all be realized and interact with each other as one or more sets of computer processing hardware executing a collection of computer programs as generally known in the art.

There are a variety of protective actions that may be taken some by the utility itself and others in conjunction with an identity management system or more generally the service system .

To protect against unauthorized access to the services some relatively strong form of automated action will normally be taken. For example it may be desirable to automatically disable or suspend the access privileges of a user account whose credentials are found in the data feed . This disabling may be complete or partial meaning that some limited form of access may still be granted for a limited time or for an emergency purpose. In the case of a corporate intranet where there is direct control over the user machine it may be possible to automatically cause the machine to be re imaged performing a fresh installation of the operating system and application programs and thereby purging the malware . This option may be especially useful when the user machine is realized as a virtual machine in a data center. In one embodiment the utility merely provides notifications of compromised user credentials and the identification and initiation of any specific protective action is left to the identity management system and or services . In other embodiments the utility may include a capability of requesting particular protective action via the API to the identity management system and or services and does so when it identifies compromised user credentials of the service system in the data feed .

One particular type of identity management system is an authentication manager used as part of a multiple factor authentication system employing physical devices or tokens carried by users and used to provide one time passwords for logging in to a service . These devices require use of a personal identification number PIN or similar user known value in order to be operated as part of the authentication service. If the user s PIN is compromised it would be desirable to prevent further use of the token and therefore one protective action would be to de activate any token associated with that PIN within the authentication manager. Additionally the system might automatically take steps to re credential the user such as by a process of changing the PIN securely and or issuing a new token with a system selected PIN that is notified to the user securely.

While various embodiments of the invention have been particularly shown and described it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes in form and details may be made without departing from the scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims.

