---

title: Social content management
abstract: A method includes, in a server residing in a network of interconnected computers, populating a repository with content, each one of the content categorized by at least one community designation, one topic designation, one tag and/or one company designation, receiving registration information for users, the registration information including a username and at least one community designation, one topic designation, one tag and/or one company designation, receiving content from a first user, the content including at least one community designation, one topic designation, one tag and/or one company designation, storing the received content in the repository, and notifying a subset of users of the received content, the community designation, topic designation, tag and/or company designation of each of the subset of users matching the community designation, topic designation, tag and/or company designation of received content.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08903912&OS=08903912&RS=08903912
owner: Dynamic Signal Inc.
number: 08903912
owner_city: San Bruno
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120518
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 488 267 entitled Social Content Management filed May 20 1011 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The invention generally relates to social networks and more specifically to social content management.

In general a social network such as Facebook LinkedIn and Myspace is a social structure made up of individuals or organizations called nodes which are tied connected by one or more specific types of interdependency such as friendship kinship common interest financial exchange dislike sexual relationships relationships of beliefs knowledge prestige and so forth.

A social network typically enables a user to connect with friends and family share photos videos music and other personal information with either a select group of friends or a wider group of people depending on the settings the user selects. Social networks are great ways of keeping in touch with friends and family around the world as well as making new connections with people based on similar interests or professions.

The following presents a simplified summary of the innovation in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects of the invention. This summary is not an extensive overview of the invention. It is intended to neither identify key or critical elements of the invention nor delineate the scope of the invention. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts of the invention in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

The present invention provides methods and apparatus including computer program products for social content management.

In general in one aspect the invention features a method including in a server residing in a network of interconnected computers populating a repository with content each one of the content categorized by at least one community designation one topic designation one tag and or one company designation receiving registration information for users the registration information including a username and at least one community designation one topic designation one tag and or one company designation receiving content from a first user the content including at least one community designation one topic designation one tag and or one company designation storing the received content in the repository and notifying a subset of users of the received content the community designation topic designation tag and or company designation of each of the subset of users matching the community designation topic designation tag and or company designation of received content.

Other features and advantages of the invention are apparent from the following description and from the claims.

The subject innovation is now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. It may be evident however that the present invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the present invention.

As used in this application the terms component system platform and the like can refer to a computer related entity or an entity related to an operational machine with one or more specific functionalities. The entities disclosed herein can be either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a server and the server can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers. Also these components can execute from various computer readable media having various data structures stored thereon. The components may communicate via local and or remote processes such as in accordance with a signal having one or more data packets e.g. data from one component interacting with another component in a local system distributed system and or across a network such as the Internet with other systems via the signal .

In addition the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or. That is unless specified otherwise or clear from context X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is if X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B then X employs A or B is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. Moreover articles a and an as used in the subject specification and annexed drawings should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form.

As shown in an exemplary network includes a number of user devices linked to a papershare server through a group of interconnected computers e.g. the Internet . The network also includes one or more servers linked to the Internet and one or more social networks linked to the Internet . Example user devices include personal computers PCs netbook computers laptop computers smartphones tablet PCs and so forth.

As shown in the papershare server includes a processor a memory and a store or repository . The memory includes an operating system OS such as Windows or Linux and a papershare process fully described below. The repository stores content uploaded from one or more of the user devices . Content can include white papers solution briefs technical guides audio video audio video software marketing materials data sheets press releases infographics webinars events and so forth. Content residing in the repository can be shared users registered with the papershare server . For example one user s content can be shared with other users that may be classified as friends customers companies colleagues and so forth.

Each piece of content residing in the repository is categorized by at least a community one or more topics one or more tags and or one or more companies. A community refers to a particular market while a topic represents particular aspects of the market. Example communities include computing financial services healthcare manufacturing sustainability and so forth. A tags represents an aspect of a topic. Example tags include cloud virtualization healthcare and so forth. Companies enable a user to filter search results withing a community using boolean search terms. Example companies include Intel Corporation Microsoft Corporation VMware and so forth. Thus a user can find content users and companies with an interest in a specific aspect of a market quickly.

As shown in process includes registering a user. When a user first registers with the papershare server the registration process requires the registrant to select at least one community and at least one topic to which they are associated with. This initial selection of one community and one topic enables the papershare process to present only content people companies the user is interested in while reducing all non important noise experienced in traditional user centric social networks.

Process pre populates the repository with a list of approved communities. In some implementations one or more users may generate their own private communities. These private communities that are user generated enables users an ability to create focused environments on their own through for example a simple graphical user interface GUI web page. These private communities are placed in a user generated section of the repository to segregate approved communities from user created communities. One benefit of this separation of approved and private communities allows the maintenance of a list of all communities without duplicates offensive communities and or potential noise.

A user creates a private community by naming the community and associating the community with one or more topics tags and or list of companies. The user who creates the private community becomes the owner who can add edit and remove topics tags and companies.

Approved communities are listed in the repository in a public list and viewable by all users while private communities are not listed in the public list of communities and the owner of the community is required to personally invite users to join such a private community. Once a user has joined a private community the private community is added to a list of communities the user has access to.

The papershare server and papershare process is not a one to one relationship but enables a one to many and a many to one relationship. For example a user can upload content such as a paper to the repository . Once uploaded the paper is available to any number of other users. Users with interest within a subcategory of a community are notified of the newly uploaded content by the papershare process . The notification can be via an activity status update a dashboard notification an individual or daily notification email with an invitation as to whether any other user wants access to this newly uploaded content. If a user is interested in the newly uploaded content a copy of the new loaded content becomes theirs through an alert and or link which may also trigger additional information about the content. At that time the user can read a copy of the content or place the content in their personal repository of content referred to as My Library in the repository . At no time does the user have to go out to the one or more servers to find the content and download the content. Once the user has the content all of the user s connections are informed that the user has the content and can also make the content theirs.

In some implementations a user may have a papershare widget a papershare phone app a papershare tablet app and so forth installed on their user device which is used to open their My Library similar to Windows Explorer and Mac Finder. In one example a user can use a widget to put a papershare bookshelf on their own web site. In general a widget is the word widget is self contained code that displays a program or a piece of a program that is also usually a shortcut to a larger application. In general an app is an application developed for small handheld devices such as mobile phones smartphones PDAs and so on and for tablet PCs. Apps can come preloaded on a user device as well as downloaded by users from app stores or the Internet.

For example a papershare widget enables a user to interact with the papershare server as may be presented on a third party web site applications and or any platform device that allows for displaying HyperText Markup Language HTML and supports Javascript . The papershare widget can be configured to point to a customer user s library or the repository . The widget presents a viewer with all the content from the configured library where a user can click to view read the content add it to their personal library share it with friend and send it to the one or more one or more social networks such as Facebook LinkedIn Twitter and so forth. The user is presented with an abstract of the content the owner s biography and other content the owner has uploaded and or added to their personal library and a list of all the users who have downloaded the content. The user can then click on an image of the owner who downloaded the content to view more about that user.

A universal resource locator URL can provide the content and be accessed from the widget. This means the a user can upload their content to the papershare server and it will not only be published to the web site but also to the widget and any other clients that have built upon the papershare API. When a user views content through any of these clients they also can see all the social information about the document who downloaded it any messages recommendations ratings and so forth. When a user access the content through the papershare widget or API the client is authenticated in the app or on the web site the widget is embedded on.

Content may be published to a server from within an application that creates the content e.g. Adobe Acrobat or Microsoft Word which creates a line of code that can be placed on a web page and act like a widget. For example a user can click on a plugin and is then presented to login to the papershare server and enter the required name description and then categorize the content that is added to the network.

Advertisements on web sites located on the one or more servers may include links to the papershare server using for example an application programming interface API .

Users can build apps that interact with the papershare server . This enables users to interact with content in new and dynamic ways. The API allows users to develop applications both web and GUI based on any platform to upload download review recommend share both internally and externally and connect with people and companies associated with the papershare server .

When a second user downloads content a detailed report is generated and sent to the original user who uploaded the content. Contained within the detailed report is information such as a profile about the second user who downloaded the content. As other users e.g. a third fourth and fifth user download the same content from the second user detailed reports are to the original user. The process tracks everything a user does from the pages they visit to the content they download recommend rate share review leave a comment or post to a third party social environment. This tracking occurs not only on the papershare server but also their papershare widgets mobile apps and any app developed using the papershare API.

Detailed reports can include various statistics for future analysis. The statistics can include for example the number of content views shares and or downloads the number of recommendations the type of download user the frequency of downloads trending data social data around users and so forth. Process enables a user to view user histories. A user history can include everything a user has publicly done on the papershare server .

When a user uploads content the user may tag that content. For example the tag may include the subject or the source. The key piece of process is the fact that we require all content to be categorized. When a user uploads the content they are required to assign the content to the community topic tag and or company. Once a piece of content is categorized a user can use a list of topics tags and companies to quickly find content they are looking for using boolean operators. The list of topics tags and companies are based on the community the user is in. At the highest level a user can join different communities and when they visit the community they view only the content that is part of such community. When the community is created the community creator configures the list of topics tags and companies. These topics tags and companies can be added edited or removed at any time by the administrator of the community.

A goal is to reduce the noise associated with creating libraries of content. A user sees only the content they have expressed interest in their topics and tags. For example if K is a member of community A and community B and user B is a member of community A but not community B then when K looks at the user s content library or a customer s content library K is only presented with the content for community A as we share this interest. Again this reduces noise experience on the other social networks and environments where content is not finely actualized.

Uploaded content or pages can be labeled public or private. Public content is available to anyone without registering with the papershare server . Public content is optimized for search engines such as Google Yahoo and Bing .

The papershare server may be implemented in a number of different ways. One way as described above is on a customer web site. In another example the papershare server is implemented on the Microsoft Windows Azure platform for example. In general the Windows Azure platform includes a cloud services operating system and a set of developer services which provide the functionality to build applications that span from consumer web to enterprise scenarios. Windows Azure and SQL Azure are the key components of the Windows Azure platform.

Windows Azure provides developers with on demand compute storage networking and content delivery capabilities to host scale and manage Web applications on the Internet through Microsoft data centers. Windows Azure serves as the development service hosting and service management environment for the Windows Azure platform.

Microsoft SQL Azure delivers on Microsoft s SQL Server Data platform vision of extending the Data platform capabilities to the cloud. SQL Azure provides data services including a relational database reporting and data synchronization with mobile users remote offices and business partners.

The papershare process enables annotation s of content which then is added to the content as an additional layer or layers. This is analogous to presentations in the past using transparencies. These annotations can then be shared along with the original content to other users Annotated content can be requested by a user and the user can select which annotations should be included like only those from a particular user or users or in a particular category and so forth. And annotations can be added to previous annotations. Annotations provide a way that two or more users may collaborate on content.

Uploaded content can be protected by attaching security such as private public and or anonymous. Anonymous content does not require the user to be registered with the papershare server .

Content e.g. documents stored in the repository can be searched based on categories attributes similarities authorship the content of the document or zip file and so forth. Content found in response to a search can be shared with other users recommended sent to other social networks and so forth.

A user can recommend specific content. Other users can search for content based on recommendations from a particular user. In one specific example a user recommends specific content by clicking on a recommendation button in a papershare user interface UI . Other users can search on recommended papers and recommended papers with specific authors or within specific groups. Here again content drives users users do not drive content.

The papershare server includes a messaging system that enables receiving sending and managing messages and also take a message and reply through status updates. This puts the message into the public realm.

When content is uploaded a status update is generated and the status update can be sent out of a number of traditional media such as Facebook LinkedIn Twitter and so forth. In effect the papershare server becomes a client to this traditional media. If a status update exceeds the maximum number of characters allowed in a text message used in for example Twitter the papershare process warns the user.

Since the papershare server provides a repository of content users may directly access the repository and add copy and delete content. For example files can be dropped into the repository and a status update generated sometimes in response to further user input.

The repository can also include content that is pay for view and the papershare server can store information regarding payment.

In one embodiment the papershare server includes a live chat feature. If a user has a question about content and the owner who uploaded it is online the user may initiate a chat session with the owner. The chat session session may include voice and or video. In general chat refers to a real time communication between two users via computer. Further the papershare server can enable conferencing among multiple users who have downloaded the content may be initiated.

As described above the papershare server is built around verticals. Verticals include categories. A user can be a member of multiple verticals and content can be a member of multiple verticals. Groups of users can be members of multiple verticals.

A user can find detailed information about users groups and so forth that is associated with any piece of content including who has downloaded it.

Various implementations of the systems and techniques described here can be realized in digital electronic circuitry integrated circuitry specially designed ASICs application specific integrated circuits computer hardware firmware software and or combinations thereof. These various implementations can include implementation in one or more computer programs that are executable and or interpretable on a programmable system including at least one programmable processor which may be special or general purpose coupled to receive data and instructions from and to transmit data and instructions to a storage system at least one input device and at least one output device.

These computer programs also known as programs software software applications or code include machine instructions for a programmable processor and can be implemented in a high level procedural and or object oriented programming language and or in assembly machine language. As used herein the terms machine readable medium computer readable medium refers to any computer program product apparatus and or device e.g. magnetic discs optical disks memory Programmable Logic Devices PLDs used to provide machine instructions and or data to a programmable processor including a machine readable medium that receives machine instructions as a machine readable signal. The term machine readable signal refers to any signal used to provide machine instructions and or data to a programmable processor.

To provide for interaction with a user the systems and techniques described here can be implemented on a computer having a display device e.g. a CRT cathode ray tube or LCD liquid crystal display monitor for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device e.g. a mouse or a trackball by which the user can provide input to the computer. Other kinds of devices can be used to provide for interaction with a user as well for example feedback provided to the user can be any form of sensory feedback e.g. visual feedback auditory feedback or tactile feedback and input from the user can be received in any form including acoustic speech or tactile input.

The systems and techniques described here can be implemented in a computing system that includes a back end component e.g. a data server or that includes a middleware component e.g. an application server or that includes a front end component e.g. a client computer having a graphical user interface or a web browser through which a user can interact with an implementation of the systems and techniques described here or any combination of such back end middleware or front end components. The components of the system can be interconnected by any form or medium of digital data communication e.g. a communication network . Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN and the Internet.

The computing system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other.

The foregoing description does not represent an exhaustive list of all possible implementations consistent with this disclosure or of all possible variations of the implementations described. A number of implementations have been described. Nevertheless it will be understood that various modifications may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the systems devices methods and techniques described here. For example various forms of the flows shown above may be used with steps re ordered added or removed. Accordingly other implementations are within the scope of the following claims.

