---

title: Lightweight three-dimensional display
abstract: A computer-implemented imaging process method includes generating a progression of images of a three-dimensional model and saving the images at a determined location, generating mark-up code for displaying image manipulation controls and for permitting display of the progression of images in response to user interaction with the image manipulation controls, and providing the images and mark-up code for use by a third-party application.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08384713&OS=08384713&RS=08384713
owner: Trimble Navigation Limited
number: 08384713
owner_city: Sunnyvale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120314
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 367 226 filed Feb. 6 2012 which is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 053 399 filed on Mar. 21 2008. Both applications are incorporated by reference in their entirety.

This document relates to systems and techniques for developing representations of real world objects that appear three dimensional but can be displayed without special three dimensional techniques.

If a picture is worth a thousand words a three dimensional model may be worth a million. Computer models developed on computer aided design and development CADD systems are used in a variety of industries to help people better understand and visualize the object being modeled without requiring someone to build that object. For example architects can generate virtual walkthrough tours of buildings before they are built so that clients can visualize internal spaces and also see how a building might look on its site. Engineers can build whole systems to better see how various parts will fit together. And biologists and chemists can build objects that already exist but that are too small to be seen easily such as molecules.

Processing of three dimensional models requires extensive computational capabilities however. That is because an enormous number of faces on an object may need to be computed i.e. whether a surface is visible etc. as does the way that light interacts with and reflects off of those surfaces. Also a user may need to install particular software to handle the display of three dimensional models such as VRML or Quicktime VR. The model can also be turned into a movie that requires less processing power to display but in that case the user may lose the ability to interact freely with the model.

This document describes systems and techniques that may be used to generate a three dimensional experience for a user without the need for special three dimensional software. For example a user may be allowed to manipulate a model in space in a web browser without needing special software such as a FLASH plug in or the like.

In general the techniques discussed here generate a plurality of images of a model in a seamless procession and place those images in a defined location. The techniques then generate web browser code such as HTML code that produces controls for cycling through the images and also points to the particular images. The code can then be accessed from a web browser e.g. by pointing the browser to the URL for the code .

In certain implementations such systems and technique may provide one or more advantages. For example developers may develop pages by which users can interact with three dimensional models represented as a series of two dimensional figures without having to worry about whether the users will have particular software programs or plug ins. Consumers may be enabled to have a richer interactive experience on a variety of devices without needing the computational horsepower for full three dimensional modeling and without having to install and maintain particular software. As a result a typical user may be provided with a richer experience in viewing a web page.

In one implementation a computer implemented imaging method is disclosed. The method comprises generating a progression of images of a three dimensional model and saving the images at a determined location generating mark up code for displaying image manipulation controls and for permitting display of the progression of images in response to user interaction with the image manipulation controls and providing the images and mark up code for use by a third party application. The third party application can comprise a web browser and the web browser can permit interaction with the images in the web browser s native form.

In some aspects generating the seamless progression of images comprises directing a three dimensional modeling application to take pictures in a loop around a perimeter of the three dimensional model. The method can also comprise packaging the images and mark up code for transmission to a remote third party application. In addition the method can include transmitting to the third party application a URL for the mark up code. The method can further involve receiving from a user an indicator relating to a number of images to generate around an exterior of the three dimensional object and generating the images at substantially equally spaced positions around the exterior of the three dimensional object. In addition the method can further include storing each image of the plurality of images as a separate image file and generating the mark up code to refer to the image files.

In some aspects the mark up code can be executed by a native web browser without using browser plug ins. The method can also comprise receiving from a user an indication of an image traversal path and generating the progression of images along the image traversal path. The image traversal path can be defined by points distributed in multiple dimensions about a sphere at time. The method can also include generating a display in a browser associated with the model receiving user parameters identifying the determined location and communicating the determined location to an operating system.

In another implementation a computer implemented model viewing system is disclosed. The system includes a CAD program adapted to generate two dimensional images of a three dimensional model an image generation module to cause a plurality of two dimensional images of the three dimensional model to be created by the CAD program and a code generator to create mark up code that when executed causes a progression of the two dimensional images to be displayed so as to create a visual impression of movement of the three dimensional model. The image generation module can define an imaging path about the three dimensional model and a virtual camera operated by the CAD program is operable to be controlled by the image generation module to capture images from locations corresponding to the imaging path. In addition the system can include a web browser capable of displaying the progression of the two dimensional images in the browser s native form. The system can also include means for communicating a user selection of a storage location for the two dimensional images from a web based application to a computer operating system.

In certain aspects the image generation module is programmed to capture and save digital images having a predefined naming structure so that the images may be accessed in sequence by name. In yet other aspects the code generator creates the code using a code template and provides model specific information for use with the code template.

In yet another implementation a computer implemented model viewing system is disclosed and comprises an interface configured to receive user input regarding imaging of a three dimensional model into a plurality of images a plug in application to communicate with an application displaying the three dimensional model so as to cause the application to generate a plurality of images of the three dimensional model and means for generating mark up code for displaying the plurality of images in progression. The system can further comprise means for communicating between an browser based application and an operating system file system to identify a location for saving the plurality of images.

The details of one or more embodiments are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features and advantages will be apparent from the description and drawings and from the claims.

This section describes various systems and techniques for generating representations of 3 D models where the representations can be displayed in a manner very much like a display of the model itself but without the computational overhead associated with manipulating a true 3 D model. In the examples discussed here a plug in for a 3 D CADD system or similar application causes the system to orbit a model while capturing images of the model so as to create multiple images from roughly evenly spaced vantage points around the model. The plug in can then automatically generate mark up code that permits easy manipulation of the 2 D images from a web browser so that the images can be displayed in order to provide the effect of a 3 D object that is being spun around by a user in real time.

The plug in may operate in certain circumstances by opening a browser window that an operator may use in setting parameters for creating images of the model. As one example the operator may select a folder or other location into which files associated with the imaging process are to be placed so that they may be accessed later for viewing. Such an approach is not trivial because generally a web page does not have access to a file system on a computer or the access depends on the type of computer on which the page is being displayed. However in techniques described below the web page code such as JavaScript code may communicate with a native application that is loaded on the computer system and serves as a conduit for the web page program. The web page code may cause the native application to interact with a file management system on the computer so that the web page code may have access indirectly to files on the computer.

The number of cameras may be selected such as by a user to provide a number of two dimensional images of the 3 D model such that flipping from one image to the next will provide a relatively smooth rendering of the model. In particular a user may selectively cycle through images taken by adjacent cameras in a progressive manner to create a virtual animation of the model. Where the model is placed against a white or invisible background for the imaging such flipping from image to image will make it appear to a viewer like the model is rotating freely in space. As a result the visual effects for the viewer is somewhat like that provided by old flip books or by the popular movie The Matrix except with the model appearing to rotate in space rather than the camera appearing to move about the model.

A webpage is shown conceptually below the model . In concept the webpage is shown to represent the manner that the images of the model may be displayed to a user of a web browser after the imaging operation has occurred.

The webpage includes a display area where images of the model may be displayed to a viewer of the web browser. Other adjacent images such as image are shown in the figure next to image . In actuality the other images would not be viewable to a user when image is being displayed. Rather the other images are shown conceptually here in the form of a filmstrip to indicate that when a user manipulates controls below image the other images will be displayed in order. As a result of such progressive display of the images the user may generate the visual effect of rotating the model in space within the area shown for image simply by causing the various adjacent images to be displayed in an appropriate order. In certain examples the user may flip back and forth quickly between the images with the result being that the object appears to be grasped and rotated in front of the user. In reality however the user will simply be viewing the individual images in sequence in a common area on their browser.

Because the webpage displays static images rather than actual three dimensional models or complex animations such as flash based animations a user may view webpage in certain circumstances without the need for any particular web browser plug ins. For example the techniques discussed here may permit a user to obtain Flash effects without the need for Flash. Also a user may be able to achieve such seeming three dimensional control on a light weight client such as a mobile device or other computing device that has limited computational power.

The system includes an imaging computer that includes for example a 3 D modeler . The 3 D modeler may comprise any of a variety of computer aided design programs that permit the construction of 3 D objects and the viewing of such objects. In addition in certain implementations the 3 D modeler may include functionality to generate images of models rendered by the system. Such functionality may commonly include an interface that permits a user to position a viewpoint and an angle of view for a virtual camera and may also permit the definition of a field of view such as by selecting a virtual lens for the camera.

Control of such a virtual camera and generation of 2 D images of the 3 D model may occur with a 2 D renderer . The 2 D renderer may create a standard image file such as a JPEG file in response to commands to provide an image of a model from a particular point at a particular angle. The 2 D renderer may also accept commands such as commands received through an application programming interface API . For example another program may operate according to the API to control the positioning of a virtual camera by the 3 D modeler and the generation of images by the 2 D renderer .

Models for the 3 D modeler may be stored in a models database . The database may take a variety of forms and may store each model in a separate file. Various models may be combined into one common model such as by providing each model with a particular base point and opening multiple models into a single model space. When such multiple models are opened near each other imaging of the multiple models may occur using 2 D renderer . Database may be implemented for example like the model warehouse component of GOOGLE SKETCHUP.

An image generation module may operate such as through an API as described above to cause automatic rendering of images by the 2 D renderer through the 3 D modeler . The image generation module may be programmed for example to interact with a user or an application in identifying locations around a model for placing a virtual camera and a number of different images that are to be captured of the model. The image generation module may be a native program that has been installed on the computer and that runs separately of other programs on the computer . In one example the image generation module may be written in a language such as Ruby.

The image generation module may in one implementation cause a dialog box to be generated for interacting with the user. The dialog box may take a variety of forms and in one example may take the form of a borderless web browser . The web browser may operate in a familiar manner as one of a number of common browsers such as the MICROSOFT INTERNET EXPLORER the FOXFIRE browser or the APPLE SAFARI browser. In appropriate circumstances the browser may operate according to the techniques described in this document without the need for additional plug ins or other components.

Pages within the web browser may have difficulty accessing data on the computer because of security restrictions that are part of the Web browser. As a result a file system interpreter may be provided on the computer . In one example the file system interpreter is part of or associated with the image generation module and may be part of a native application such as an application written in Ruby running on the computer .

The file system interpreter is configured to communicate with a program running on the web browser such as JavaScript code running on the web browser . The JavaScript and Ruby programs may communicate according to a prearranged communication protocol. Using such a protocol the JavaScript running on the web browser may make requests of the file system interpreter that may be interpreted by the file system interpreter . For example the JavaScript code or other similar code running on the web browser may request information about files on computer . Such a request may include a request to determine the folder structure on the computer . The file system interpreter may respond to such requests by making a standard operating system request for data for a file system dialog box. Upon receiving data associated with the dialog box the file system interpreter may parse such data to determine a file structure on the computer and may return such information to the application running on the web browser . For example the file system interpreter may pass a list of folders in a particular directory to the application running on the web browser .

The application running on the web browser may take such information and display it in a manner that appears to a user as if an actual file system has been accessed by the program running on the web browser . For example the program may generate a borderless webpage that has the appearance of a file dialog box and may access a number of stored images to show icons such as folders and other similar organization for a file system. The program may also display with the icons textual description of the folders so that a user is presented with a webpage that looks like a file system dialog box.

As described in more detail below user interaction with the webpage may include commands from the user such as requests to save files in a particular folder requests to create a new folder or requests to move up and down in a folder hierarchy. Such requests may be interpreted by the program running on the Web browser and passed to the file system interpreter according to an agreed upon protocol. The file system interpreter may translate such requests and in turn make certain calls to a file system on an operating system for the computer . For example the file system interpreter may drill down in a set of folders in response to a user selection and may pass back to the program running on the web browser a new list of subfolders or other appropriate information. In general each time that the user interacts with the webpage that looks like a file system dialog box the program running on the web browser may make a request to the file system interpreter which may in turn access information stored on computer . The file system interpreter may then analyze such returned information and pass it back to the program running on the web browser in a manner that can be used by such program.

The file system interpreter ultimately provides to the program running on web browser a view of data in a web data store . The web data store may include a number of Internet based files such as HTML files image files stylesheet files and other similar files. In addition the file system interpreter may in response to user commands cause certain files generated by the 2 D renderer to be saved in a particular folder in the web data store . The web data store may include in particular a portion of a standard disk or flash storage structure on computer . Such storage and the operation of the programs described here may of course be spread across multiple computers and or storage devices.

The file system interpreter may generally be a native application running on the computer so that it has access to the full range of services from the computer s operating system including file management services and dialogues. In this manner the file system interpreter may permit the program running on the web browser to access files on computer where it would otherwise not be able to access them.

The system may generate a variety of outputs in response to user interaction with the system . For example the web browser may display a variety of webpages such as dialog boxes needed for interacting with a user in capturing and saving images of a 3 D model. In addition the webpages may include a webpage for displaying and interacting with the images. The web browser may also display various animations such as interactive animations that flip from image to image as discussed above with respect to fig one or other such moving and interactive features for a user of a webpage.

In providing such data and interaction the computer may generate a number of files for permitting interaction with a plurality of images that simulate a three dimensional model. For example HTML files may be generated automatically such as files to present a webpage that shows the images to a user and allows the user to interact with the images so as to display various different images after each other in order to create an experience similar to full interaction with a 3 D model. In addition the computer may generate a plurality of image files such as JPEG GIF TIFF and other similar file format image files. The computer may also generate cascading style sheet CSS files that may additionally define the particular layout and look of web pages to be generated by the system . Finally the computer may generate JavaScript code and may otherwise use such JavaScript code . For example such code may be used to generate dialog boxes for capturing 2 D images and may also be used to display such images later on a webpage that permits interaction with the images by a user.

At box the process first receives a selection of a model to image. For example a user may initially open a model in a CAD program and may then select a control such as an icon within the program to begin a process of imaging the model. The control selected by the user may for example represent a plug in provided with the CAD program for such imaging of models.

At box the process identifies imaging locations associated with the model. In one typical example the locations may be at points along a circle oval or other geometric shape that circumscribes a path around the object. The location of each view relative to the next view may be provided by a user specifying an angle e.g. if the user specifies ten degrees each view will be ten degrees apart and there will be thirty six images. Alternatively the user may specify the number of images. The imaging locations need not be evenly spaced however. In one example the user may manually drag and drop the imaging locations into place such as by starting with evenly spaced icons of cameras that are placed automatically around the model and then adjusting those icons. The user may generate previews of the resulting animation around the model in a manner like that discussed below and may then adjust the camera icons until they achieve an effect that they desire.

The particular locations for the imaging may be computed in some circumstances by computing the smallest X Y and Z point in the model and the largest such point. A virtual sphere that contains the two points may be generated and may be considered to bound the model. A separate circle or other path may then be selected that is sufficiently far outside the sphere given the parameters of a virtual camera provided with the program e.g. position and field of view that the camera when aimed inward toward the sphere may capture all of the sphere within its field of view.

The actual path for the camera may take on a variety of forms. In a simple example the path may be a circle or oval with the camera at a single height relative to the model. In a more complex example the path may be sinusoidal and thus vary in multiple dimensions such that as the path moves around a model the camera also moves up and down. Such a circular and sinusoidal path may provide alternating views near the top and bottom of the model. For example such a path may permit images of an automobile to show both the roof and the underbelly of the automobile where appropriate. In yet another example the path that circumscribes the model may take the form of a sphere with positions for the virtual camera selected at approximately equal distances around the sphere. Using such a path or collection of points may enable a user to interact with the images so as to spin the model or a least appear to spin the model around multiple axes.

The user may also specify the size of the images to be output. Such size may be specified for instance as a number of pixels in the X and Y dimensions. Such scaling may be particularly convenient where the images are to be incorporated into a web page where many elements are expressed in terms of pixel dimensions.

At box the process begins a repeated process of locating the camera at a particular point in the circumscribing path and generating a 2 D image as shown at box . Such activity may occur automatically using a particular CAD package as controlled through API imports from another application such as the image generation module of . As each image is acquired the process may perform particular functions on the image. For example background items may be eliminated from the image as may phantom lines or other lines such as axes from the modeling program.

Also certain styles may be referenced for the imaging process. For example users may set up preferring lighting scenarios for their models such as by locating lighting sources in 3 D space and specifying the parameters e.g. color and intensity for the lighting sources. A user may also specify textures and materials for the model or for other items in an image.

Also the positions along a circumscribing path may in most circumstances be equally spaced in a circle or oval. But other arrangements may also be used. For example images may be analyzed from a variety of positions around a model such as on a sphere around the model and a degree of difference between the various images may be computed. Such degree of difference may be performed using a variety of known techniques such as by comparing distances between common pixels in different images and the degree of change in various pixels in the images. Positions about the model may then be selected automatically so as to provide images that differ from each other in substantially equal visual amounts. For example the imaging locations may be closer near an area of a model that contains significant detail but may be farther apart on a less detailed portion of the model. In this manner positions may be selected that provide a smoother experience for a user who later reviews such images such as in a manner described below.

The images may also be taken of a real object. For example a person wishing to list their automobile as part of an on line auction may take a plurality of digital photographs of the automobile at a common height their eye level at common spacing e.g. taking two side steps between each shot around the automobile. They may then save the images to a single folder and applications like those discussed here may identify the image files arrange them numerically by title if the camera named the images sequentially and generate the code needed to review the automobile with a 3 D effect as discussed next.

Once each computed imaging location has had an image generated for it and the images have been saved to a determined location the method may generate and save code to support the images at box . Such code may take the form for example of HTML and CSS code that points to the various images for displaying the images in an appropriate progression and order. In particular the code may generate a control for scanning forward and backward through the images and may sequentially call up each image for display as the control is manipulated by a user. The particular code may be generated from a template into which is added data for the particular images that are to be viewed. For example from one instantiation to the next the names of the particular figures and the number of figures may change but other aspects of the code may remain the same. Thus the template may be written to operate on an array of images and the code generation process may simply add the particular file names to the array. The code may also stay as template code and the parameters for particular images may be referenced by the code such as by referencing data files for the imaging of the model from JavaScript code or the like.

At box a second phase of the process i.e. viewing of the images in a manner that makes them look like they are still part of a 3 D model begins. In this example such viewing may occur by pointing a browser to the code generated in box . Such an action may occur by the process causing a browser to be launched and pointed at such code. Launching of the browser pointed at the code may cause the browser to execute the code which may in turn cause the generation of controls for viewing the images of the 3 D model and may initially display a base image at box . The base image may be any of the generated images but may typically be a first image of the model that was taken in the process such as a front view of the model.

At box a user interacts with the webpage that has been generated by the code with the browser which may cause various different ones of the captured images to be displayed. For example the user may click on the images themselves and pull left or right to indicate that they would like to have the code fetch a different image of the model. Such action may then cause the other images to be displayed in turn. If properly integrated such activity may appear to the user to involve pulling of a three the model left and right so as to view the model from various angles much like may occur with VRML models in a more heavyweight implementation.

The process begins at box where the modeling application receives an imaging command and requests a model name. The CAD program may at that time already be displaying a model in front of the user. Such a command may come from a user selection of an icon that is presented as part of the CAD program where the modeling application operates as a plug in for the CAD program. At box the CAD program returns a name of the model so that the modeling application may use such a name as a default name for the collection of files such as images that are to be generated in association with the model. In addition the CAD program may pass a string identifying a default folder into which files associated with the model are to be stored.

At this point the modeling application may cause a dialog box to be displayed such as by generating a webpage over the display of the CAD program. The dialog box may permit a user of a system to identify a location for storing files that is different from a default location and also input parameters for camera locations in generating images of the model. For example the user may select between a path that circumscribes the model horizontally or vertical may select a shape for the path and may also select a number of images to be captured along the path. Alternatively the user may select to have images acquired from all directions pointing inward toward the model from a sphere. The modeling application may then interact with the CAD program to compute camera parameters such as the base locations for the camera in the model space and the direction of the camera for each shot.

At boxes and the modeling application then steps through the location information for each imaging location and causes the CAD program to generate a 2 D image of the model from the particular location and to save the image e.g. as a JPEG file to the folder or directory selected by the user. The image names may be determined by the program such as by providing them with the model name as a prefix and a sequential index number as a suffix e.g. car01.jpg car02.jpg car03.jpg etc.

When all of the images have been acquired the modeling application causes various files that support the images to be generated. In particular HTML code is generated where the code causes the display of a webpage that fetches the individual 2 D images in progression in response to interaction from a user and causes the images to be presented so as to provide the impression that the actual model is being manipulated. Other such files may also be generated such as CSS and JavaScript files. Those files may also be saved to the folder or directory selected by the user.

The user or another user may be readily directed to the figures by the modeling application sending a URL of the generated HTML code box . Such transmission may occur in a variety of manners box including by redirecting a web browser to the URL so that the code is executed by the web browser and an initial image from the images is displayed box . The user may then interact with the displayed web page in a variety of manners to have the various images displayed in order to provide the effect of working with the model itself. Generally also the images will wrap all the way around the model without a seam so that display of the model via the 2 D images does not include any substantial visual hitch i.e. the images will be acquired from a continuous path around the model so that a user can rotate all the way around the model without knowing where the first and last images were taken.

Starting at box a user interface is initially displayed. The interface may be placed over an application such as a CAD application and may permit a user to specify locations for saving images of the CAD application. The interface may include various elements for interacting with a file system on the computer on which the interface is displayed. For example the interface may be formed as a borderless webpage that simulates the look of a file system dialog box. The dialog box may include for example an area for entering a file name and a larger area showing a hierarchical folder structure for a computer storage system.

The initial display of the interface may lack particular information about the file system as in this example or communications with another program may initially occur to produce a starting display of file system information. For example the identify of a default folder may be stored and the process may access data defining the default folder so that it is initially displayed. Alternatively a root folder for a particular storage drive may be displayed. Such display of default folders may require communication between the program generating the interface and a native application on the computer as described below.

At box a file related command is received. For example a user may choose to save a file to display file or folder related information in the dialog box to open a file to create a new folder in a file system to delete a folder or to perform other similar functions in the system. At box a native application is opened. This application is separately stored on the system and may access the operating system features directly and thus may serve as a conduit for the initial application that opened the interface in accessing the operating system file system. The opening of the native application may occur in a variety of manners such as by the program that generated the user interface making a call for such a native application.

At box a request is made for a list of directories from the native application. For example the program that generated the interface may need to display a number of directories in response to a request from a user. That program may thus identify directory related information and pass it in a determined manner such as by an application programming interface API to the native application. The native application may in turn be programmed to receive recognize and interpret such requests. For example the native application may parse a message received from the program that generated the interface and create its own request formatted in an appropriate manner for a file system associated with an operating system on the computer. The request from the program that generated the user interface may be an asynchronous request such as a request using AJAX methods so that such program may continue operating while waiting for information to return from the native application.

At box the program receives a list of directories or folders from the native application and displays the list. The list of directories may have been created by the native application by formatting a request to a file managing component of an operating system and receiving a response to that request. The native application may then have extracted information from the response and reformatted that information for transmission to the program that generated the user interface. For example the native application may send a list of strings formatted in a particular manner where the strings represent folder names or subdirectory names in a particular directory.

Upon receiving such names from the native application the program may display a list of such folders. To do so the program may access image files that show icons representative of folders in an operating system and may display those icons in a list with the textual information about the folders received from the native application. Such display may occur in a box on the user interface that corresponds to a typical folder or directory display area in a file manager interface. As a result the user may be presented with a display that makes it look like the original program is actually accessing file management features of the operating system directly rather than indirectly. Such an example display is shown in .

At box a user command is received. For example the user command may be a click by the user on a particular folder icon in the displayed list indicating that the user would like to see the subfolders underneath the selected folder. The program generating the interface may interpret such a selection and provide data to the native application according to the API to indicate that the native application should gather from the operating system a list of subfolders box .

The native application may thus in turn send to the operating system a request for a subfolders list or other data indicating the identity of the sub folders. Such a request may occur while the program that generated the interface continues with other operations while waiting for a response i.e. asynchronous operation . As in the interaction described above the native application may receive information from the operating system may reformat the information appropriately and may pass the new information to the program that generated the interface. That program may then update the strings and folder icons shown in the display so as to make it look to the user like they actually drilled down in the directory structure box . Such updating may occur for example by editing a DOM tree associated with the display in a familiar manner.

Until the file operation is terminated box the process continues to wait for and accept user commands with respect to the file system. Once the file operation is terminated the process continues box such as by saving or opening a file selected by the user.

The file access process may take on in one example four different states. In a first state the target directory is unselected and closed. Clicking on it selects it e.g. by highlighting it and updating its title bar and opens it. JavaScript code or other such code then makes a call to a native application such as a Ruby application for the sub directories and the native application reports back in an asynchronous manner the children or an error e.g. the directory was not found . The JavaScript then modifies the HTML DOM to show the directory as selected the icon for the directory as an open folder and the subdirectories slightly indented from the directory with closed icons. The selected directory label may also be changed in response to the selection.

In a second state the target directory was unselected and open rather than closed . Clicking on the directory highlights the directory in the interface and updates the label that indicates which directory is selected.

In a third state the target directory was selected and closed. Clicking on the directory causes the JavaScript to issue a request to the native application for the sub directories and the JavaScript receives the results in an asynchronous fashion and presents the sub directories as sub nodes of the directory slightly indented and with closed folder icons . The JavaScript also swaps in an open folder icon for the selected directory.

In a fourth state the target directory was selected and open. Clicking on the directory causes the JavaScript to edit the DOM to show the directory as closed but still selected and hides the sub directories. If the user clicks on an OK button in the dialog the selected directory is passed to the calling application and the dialog closes.

In other situations the user may select a control to create a new directory much like they would in a normal file management dialog. Such a selection will bring up another dialog box which will shadow out the original dialog box. The user can enter a new directory name for the subdirectory which name the JavaScript will pass to the native application which will in turn cause that sub directory to be created and pass an indicator of success of the operation back to the program in an asynchronous fashion. The JavaScript may respond to the message of success by adding a new sub directory indicator to the DOM and by opening it as the selected sub directory.

At box the model selection is initially received in a CAD program. Such a selection may take a familiar form such as by a user selecting a data file open icon and selecting a file from a list of multiple files. The selection may also occur in the manner known for the GOOGLE SKETCHUP 3 D warehouse. The file system responds by serving model data to the CAD program and the CAD program displays the model at box in a typical manner.

The CAD program may be provided with a plug in program that corresponds to the imaging application and an icon for the program may be shown on the display of the CAD program. Selection of the icon by a user may launch the imaging application which may be programmed to capture a plurality of sequential images of the model in the CAD program and save the images and generated markup code in a manner that a webpage may display the images to evoke an impression that the viewer is actually manipulating the model and not just a series of images.

Upon receiving an imaging selection the CAD program may cause the imaging application to be launched box . Upon opening at box the imaging application may display an imaging window. The window may be for example a borderless browser window that is formatted to resemble a file access dialog box see e.g. . The dialog box may initially show several default values such as a name to be associated with the images that matches a name of the model obtained from the CAD program a number of images to obtain of the model and a location for saving image based files. At box the process receives various inputs for such values and also receives a request from a user to see the file structure on the computer system on which the imaging application and conduit application are running and on which the file system is operating. The imaging application in response to the user requests sends a request to the conduit application which the user may have previously installed on the computer for the purpose of allowing the imaging application to indirectly interact with the file system.

Upon receiving the request the conduit application translates the request and sends the corresponding request to the file system to check a file structure box such as to obtain a list of file folders in a root directory for the file system. At box the file system returns the file structure in a familiar format for the particular operating system to the conduit application. The conduit application then at box generates code for modifying the DOM to reflect an update in the interface that shows the file structure obtained from the file system. At box the imaging application updates the display. Alternatively the imaging application rather than the conduit application may generate the appropriate code for modifying the DOM.

A user may then be presented with a dialog box that shows a number of subdirectories that may be selected and at box the user selects a subdirectory and thus requests to see the file structure within that subdirectory. Again the imaging application sends a request to the conduit application the conduit application translates the request and checks the file structure from the file system box the file system returns the file structure box and the conduit application alone or in cooperation with the imaging application again generates code for modifying the DOM structure of the display so as to reflect the change in the directories e.g. to switch an icon of a selected directory from a closed image to an open image and to add a list of sub directories with closed folder images indented from the main directory box .

The user may then by clicking on a particular control select the particular directory for saving files thus causing the path for the folder to be saved and the file dialog box to disappear. After the display has been updated in this manner the user may provide a selection on the next display which may be another dialog box by which the user may establish certain parameters for imaging of a model box . At box for example the user may provide information about a camera to view the model such as a number of images for the camera to create. The imaging application may pass such data to the conduit application in certain implementations which may then control creation of images by the CAD program box by interacting back and forth with the CAD program to control the positioning of the camera relative to the model box . Upon acquiring each image the CAD program may save the images in the file system box and may obtain information about the subdirectory in which to save the files from the conduit application.

Once the conduit application and the CAD program have stepped through the imaging process and saved all necessary images the conduit application may generate code to allow a user to view the images in a convenient manner. At box for example the conduit application generates HTML code for a webpage to display the images in a seamless manner as the user manipulates the images so as to create the impression of rotating the model in space. As noted above the code may be generated from a template where the template defines certain control elements and display elements and particular values such as the number of images and the names of the image files may be added during creation of the code.

After creating the necessary code and placing it in a particular location the conduit application may then pass a URL for the code to the imaging application box or to another appropriate browser based application or other application. At box the URL causes the browser to be directed to the code to load the code to execute the code and to thereby generate a visual display for the user of one of the images along with controls for manipulating the image. At box the user chooses to rotate the image so as to be able to see various sides of the model represented by the images and such images are fetched from the file system box .

The dialog box presents the user with instructions and the ability to enter three different parameters for the imaging process. First a default name for the imaging is automatically entered in a name box and the user can change that name. The name selected by the user may affect the name that is given to image files and to information that is later displayed on an automatically generated web page for displaying the images. An imaging parameter input box allows the user in this example to select a number of images to be taken of the model. A higher number of images will permit for smoother manipulation of the object in the future but will take up more space for storing the additional images. Here thirty six images are to be generated at ten degree intervals around the model.

In other interfaces a user may be provided with alternative or additional imaging choices. For example the user may be allowed to select an axis around which the virtual camera will rotate in creating images of the model. The user may also identify a path or path shape e.g. circle oval etc. for the camera. For example if the user selects an oval path the model will appear to move toward the user and away from the user when they manipulate the images of the model to rotate the model in space. Also the user may be given an option to acquire images from points on a sphere or other 3 D object around the model.

Example JavaScript code for generating the dialog shown in is attached hereto in Appendix D. Common functions accessed by that code are attached hereto in Appendix E.

Example JavaScript code for generating the dialog shown in is attached hereto in Appendices A and G. Example CSS code for the dialog is attached in Appendices B and H. Example HTML code for generating images of a model of a house is attached in Appendix I.

HTML template code for generating the dialog is attached in hereto in Appendix F. The HTML code for displaying which may be formed from the template code may take in one example the following form 

Other various techniques for allowing a user to interact with and display various ones of the saved images may also be employed.

Computing device includes a processor memory a storage device a high speed interface connecting to memory and high speed expansion ports and a low speed interface connecting to low speed bus and storage device . Each of the components and are interconnected using various busses and may be mounted on a common motherboard or in other manners as appropriate. The processor can process instructions for execution within the computing device including instructions stored in the memory or on the storage device to display graphical information for a GUI on an external input output device such as display coupled to high speed interface . In other implementations multiple processors and or multiple buses may be used as appropriate along with multiple memories and types of memory. Also multiple computing devices may be connected with each device providing portions of the necessary operations e.g. as a server bank a group of blade servers or a multi processor system .

The memory stores information within the computing device . In one implementation the memory is a volatile memory unit or units. In another implementation the memory is a non volatile memory unit or units. The memory may also be another form of computer readable medium such as a magnetic or optical disk.

The storage device is capable of providing mass storage for the computing device . In one implementation the storage device may be or contain a computer readable medium such as a floppy disk device a hard disk device an optical disk device or a tape device a flash memory or other similar solid state memory device or an array of devices including devices in a storage area network or other configurations. A computer program product can be tangibly embodied in an information carrier. The computer program product may also contain instructions that when executed perform one or more methods such as those described above. The information carrier is a computer or machine readable medium such as the memory the storage device memory on processor or a propagated signal.

The high speed controller manages bandwidth intensive operations for the computing device while the low speed controller manages lower bandwidth intensive operations. Such allocation of functions is exemplary only. In one implementation the high speed controller is coupled to memory display e.g. through a graphics processor or accelerator and to high speed expansion ports which may accept various expansion cards not shown . In the implementation low speed controller is coupled to storage device and low speed expansion port . The low speed expansion port which may include various communication ports e.g. USB Bluetooth Ethernet wireless Ethernet may be coupled to one or more input output devices such as a keyboard a pointing device a scanner or a networking device such as a switch or router e.g. through a network adapter.

The computing device may be implemented in a number of different forms as shown in the figure. For example it may be implemented as a standard server or multiple times in a group of such servers. It may also be implemented as part of a rack server system . In addition it may be implemented in a personal computer such as a laptop computer . Alternatively components from computing device may be combined with other components in a mobile device not shown such as device . Each of such devices may contain one or more of computing device and an entire system may be made up of multiple computing devices communicating with each other.

Computing device includes a processor memory an input output device such as a display a communication interface and a transceiver among other components. The device may also be provided with a storage device such as a microdrive or other device to provide additional storage. Each of the components and are interconnected using various buses and several of the components may be mounted on a common motherboard or in other manners as appropriate.

The processor can execute instructions within the computing device including instructions stored in the memory . The processor may be implemented as a chipset of chips that include separate and multiple analog and digital processors. The processor may provide for example for coordination of the other components of the device such as control of user interfaces applications run by device and wireless communication by device .

Processor may communicate with a user through control interface and display interface coupled to a display . The display may be for example a TFT LCD Thin Film Transistor Liquid Crystal Display or an OLED Organic Light Emitting Diode display or other appropriate display technology. The display interface may comprise appropriate circuitry for driving the display to present graphical and other information to a user. The control interface may receive commands from a user and convert them for submission to the processor . In addition an external interface may be provide in communication with processor so as to enable near area communication of device with other devices. External interface may provide for example for wired communication in some implementations or for wireless communication in other implementations and multiple interfaces may also be used.

The memory stores information within the computing device . The memory can be implemented as one or more of a computer readable medium or media a volatile memory unit or units or a non volatile memory unit or units. Expansion memory may also be provided and connected to device through expansion interface which may include for example a SIMM Single In Line Memory Module card interface. Such expansion memory may provide extra storage space for device or may also store applications or other information for device . Specifically expansion memory may include instructions to carry out or supplement the processes described above and may include secure information also. Thus for example expansion memory may be provide as a security module for device and may be programmed with instructions that permit secure use of device . In addition secure applications may be provided via the SIMM cards along with additional information such as placing identifying information on the SIMM card in a non hackable manner.

The memory may include for example flash memory and or NVRAM memory as discussed below. In one implementation a computer program product is tangibly embodied in an information carrier. The computer program product contains instructions that when executed perform one or more methods such as those described above. The information carrier is a computer or machine readable medium such as the memory expansion memory memory on processor or a propagated signal that may be received for example over transceiver or external interface .

Device may communicate wirelessly through communication interface which may include digital signal processing circuitry where necessary. Communication interface may provide for communications under various modes or protocols such as GSM voice calls SMS EMS or MMS messaging CDMA TDMA PDC WCDMA CDMA2000 or GPRS among others. Such communication may occur for example through radio frequency transceiver . In addition short range communication may occur such as using a Bluetooth WiFi or other such transceiver not shown . In addition GPS Global Positioning System receiver module may provide additional navigation and location related wireless data to device which may be used as appropriate by applications running on device .

Device may also communicate audibly using audio codec which may receive spoken information from a user and convert it to usable digital information. Audio codec may likewise generate audible sound for a user such as through a speaker e.g. in a handset of device . Such sound may include sound from voice telephone calls may include recorded sound e.g. voice messages music files etc. and may also include sound generated by applications operating on device .

The computing device may be implemented in a number of different forms as shown in the figure. For example it may be implemented as a cellular telephone . It may also be implemented as part of a smartphone personal digital assistant or other similar mobile device.

Various implementations of the systems and techniques described here can be realized in digital electronic circuitry integrated circuitry specially designed ASICs application specific integrated circuits computer hardware firmware software and or combinations thereof. These various implementations can include implementation in one or more computer programs that are executable and or interpretable on a programmable system including at least one programmable processor which may be special or general purpose coupled to receive data and instructions from and to transmit data and instructions to a storage system at least one input device and at least one output device.

These computer programs also known as programs software software applications or code include machine instructions for a programmable processor and can be implemented in a high level procedural and or object oriented programming language and or in assembly machine language. As used herein the terms machine readable medium computer readable medium refers to any computer program product apparatus and or device e.g. magnetic discs optical disks memory Programmable Logic Devices PLDs used to provide machine instructions and or data to a programmable processor including a machine readable medium that receives machine instructions as a machine readable signal. The term machine readable signal refers to any signal used to provide machine instructions and or data to a programmable processor.

To provide for interaction with a user the systems and techniques described here can be implemented on a computer having a display device e.g. a CRT cathode ray tube or LCD liquid crystal display monitor for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device e.g. a mouse or a trackball by which the user can provide input to the computer. Other kinds of devices can be used to provide for interaction with a user as well for example feedback provided to the user can be any form of sensory feedback e.g. visual feedback auditory feedback or tactile feedback and input from the user can be received in any form including acoustic speech or tactile input.

The systems and techniques described here can be implemented in a computing system that includes a back end component e.g. as a data server or that includes a middleware component e.g. an application server or that includes a front end component e.g. a client computer having a graphical user interface or a Web browser through which a user can interact with an implementation of the systems and techniques described here or any combination of such back end middleware or front end components. The components of the system can be interconnected by any form or medium of digital data communication e.g. a communication network . Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN and the Internet.

The computing system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other.

A number of embodiments have been described. Nevertheless it will be understood that various modifications may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. For example much of this document has been described with respect to television advertisements but other forms of future viewership based advertisements may also be addressed such as radio advertisements and on line video advertisements.

In addition the logic flows depicted in the figures do not require the particular order shown or sequential order to achieve desirable results. In addition other steps may be provided or steps may be eliminated from the described flows and other components may be added to or removed from the described systems. Accordingly other embodiments are within the scope of the following claims.

