---

title: Automatically activating hands-free mode while tracking speed
abstract: The disclosed embodiments relate to a system that enables a user to continue accomplishing a task on a handheld device while moving. During operation, the system tracks the speed of the handheld device while the user is interacting with an application on the device. If the speed is greater than a pre-determined speed, the system audibly prompts the user to enable hands-free mode. If the user says yes, the system enables hands-free mode and the user may continue to use the application in hands-free mode. Otherwise, the system continues to run the application without enabling hands-free mode.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09002412&OS=09002412&RS=09002412
owner: Intuit Inc.
number: 09002412
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120924
---
Mobile applications found on handheld devices such as smartphones allow users to accomplish tasks away from the desk and outside the office. By interacting with the device s touch screen interface and or keyboard users are able to submit payroll entries send invoices and check accounts payable during flights and in between appointments. If users could also accomplish these tasks while driving they would save even more time. However users who drive while using a handheld device may pose a danger to others nearby.

Three out of four states in the U.S. have introduced hands free laws. Hands free laws generally prohibit the driver of a vehicle from interacting with a handheld device by hand. These laws stem from the commonly accepted idea that a driver should focus her hands and eyes on the road and not on a handheld device. Otherwise the driver may devote too little attention to the road and eventually cause an accident. To circumvent this problem many handheld devices offer the user an option to use applications in hands free mode.

However users may not be using hands free mode as often as they should. In some cases users may not know how to activate hands free mode. In other cases users may find it too much trouble to navigate the menus on the device to activate hands free mode. In either case the user has two choices that are both less than ideal 1 they can wait until after the trip to finish the task or 2 they can use the device by hand during the trip. The first choice is inefficient the second choice is dangerous.

The disclosed embodiments relate to a system that enables a user to continue accomplishing a task on a handheld device while moving. During operation the system tracks the speed of the handheld device while the user is interacting with an application on the device. If the speed is greater than a pre determined speed the system audibly prompts the user to enable hands free mode. If the user says yes the system enables hands free mode and the user may continue to use the application in hands free mode. Otherwise the system continues to run the application without enabling hands free mode.

Instruments found on contemporary handheld devices offer different ways to track the speed of the device. In some embodiments the system tracks the speed by calculating the speed from acceleration data gained from an accelerometer in the handheld device.

In some embodiments the system tracks the speed of the handheld device by calculating the speed from location data gained from a Global Positioning System GPS receiver in the handheld device.

In some embodiments prompting the user to activate an application s hands free mode may comprise presenting the user with a voice prompt.

Note that before the enablement of hands free mode the user may be accomplishing a task on the handheld device by completing fields in the application. Additionally the hands free mode may allow the user to complete each of these fields without the use of her hands or any tactile input.

Furthermore completing each field in the application without the use of hands may comprise a number of steps that differ from completing each field in the application with the use of hands. In some embodiments the system performs at least some of the following steps for each field First the system selects the field. Then the system audibly communicates the field s name to the user. Next the system audibly instructs the user to speak a value for the field. Next the system listens for the user s vocal input. The system then converts the received input into a text value. Next the system audibly communicates the converted text value back to the user and listens for the user s vocal confirmation that the text value is correct. Finally if the text value is correct the system enters the text value into the field.

Note that the system may receive a command from the user to disable tracking the speed of the handheld device. In response to this command the system may disable tracking the speed of the handheld device.

Note that embodiments of the invention may be implemented as an independent service that exists in the device s operating system. Independent applications that reside on the device would then make calls to the service in order to access the features provided by embodiments of the invention.

The following description is presented to enable any person skilled in the art to make and use the invention and is provided in the context of a particular application and its requirements. Various modifications to the disclosed embodiments will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art and the general principles defined herein may be applied to other embodiments and applications without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention. Thus the present invention is not limited to the embodiments shown but is to be accorded the widest scope consistent with the principles and features disclosed herein.

The data structures and code described in this detailed description are typically stored on a computer readable storage medium which may be any device or medium that can store code and or data for use by a system. The computer readable storage medium includes but is not limited to volatile memory non volatile memory magnetic and optical storage devices such as disk drives magnetic tape CDs compact discs DVDs digital versatile discs or digital video discs or other media capable of storing code and or data now known or later developed.

The methods and processes described in the detailed description section can be embodied as code and or data which can be stored on a non transitory computer readable storage medium as described above. When a system reads and executes the code and or data stored on the non transitory computer readable storage medium the system performs the methods and processes embodied as data structures and code and stored within the non transitory computer readable storage medium.

Furthermore the methods and processes described below can be included in hardware modules. For example the hardware modules can include but are not limited to application specific integrated circuit ASIC chips field programmable gate arrays FPGAs and other programmable logic devices now known or later developed. When the hardware modules are activated the hardware modules perform the methods and processes included within the hardware modules.

By utilizing accelerometers and natural language processing NLP libraries embodiments of the present invention enable an application which executes on a handheld device to track the speed of the device and in response to exceeding a pre determined speed prompt the user to activate hands free mode. After agreeing to activate hands free mode the user can then continue using the device in hands free mode.

Embodiments of the present invention provide various advantages. For example by encouraging the user to activate hands free mode embodiments of the present invention reduce the chance that the user drives a vehicle while using her hands to interact with a handheld device. This in turn reduces the risk of an automobile accident. Without embodiments of the present invention users may find it too troublesome to navigate menus on the device to enable hands free mode. In other cases users may not know about hands free mode or may not know how to enable hands free mode. In either case users may decide to risk driving while using the device by hand increasing the chance of a vehicle accident.

Note that the aforementioned advantages increases in states that have passed hands free laws that restrict drivers from manually accessing handheld devices while driving. By automatically prompting users to enable hands free mode embodiments of the present invention help users follow the law.

The disclosed embodiments relate to a system that enables a user to continue accomplishing a task on a handheld device while moving. During operation the system tracks the speed of the handheld device while the user is interacting with an application on the device. If the speed is greater than a pre determined speed the system audibly prompts the user to enable hands free mode. If the user says yes the system enables hands free mode and the user may continue to use the application in hands free mode. Otherwise the system continues to run the application without enabling hands free mode. Note that the type of task may include submitting a payroll entry sending an invoice or checking accounts payable.

Instruments found on contemporary handheld devices offer different ways to track the speed of the device. In some embodiments the system tracks the speed by calculating the speed from acceleration data gained from an accelerometer. Note that the handheld device may incorporate the accelerometer. Ways to calculate the current speed of the device with an accelerometer include but are not limited to tracking the acceleration of the vehicle over short intervals of time and then calculating the speed by summing the products of the intervals and their respective acceleration values.

In some embodiments the system tracks the speed of the handheld device by calculating the speed from location data gained from a Global Positioning System GPS receiver. Note that the handheld device may incorporate a GPS receiver. Ways to calculate the current speed of the device with a GPS receiver include but are not limited to tracking the location of the car across short intervals of time and then calculating the speed by dividing the change s distance by the change s time.

In some embodiments prompting the user to activate an application s hands free mode may comprise presenting the user with a voice prompt. For example consider a situation where a user is unable to finish submitting payroll entries on a handheld device before she needs to drive to a meeting. The user enters a car and begins to drive while keeping the handheld device in close proximity. When the handheld device recognizes that the traveling speed of the device is faster than a pre determined speed the device may audibly prompt the user with the following sentence Would you like to continue submitting payroll in hands free mode The user may answer yes or no to this prompt.

Note that before the enablement of hands free mode the user may be accomplishing a task on the handheld device by completing fields in the application. Additionally the hands free mode may allow the user to complete each of these fields without the use of her hands or any tactile input.

Furthermore completing each field in the application without the use of hands may comprise a number of steps that differ from completing each field in the application with the use of hands. In some embodiments the system performs the following steps for each field First the system selects the field. Then the system audibly communicates the field s name to the user. Next the system audibly instructs the user to speak a value for the field. Next the system listens for the user s vocal input. The system then converts the received input into a text value. Next the system audibly communicates the converted text value back to the user and listens for the user s vocal confirmation that the text value is correct. Finally if the text value is correct the system enters the text value into the field.

Continuing from the above example if the user answers yes to the above prompt the system enables hands free mode to help the user enter payroll entries without the use of her hands. To start a payroll entry the system may audibly communicate the following to the user State the name of the employee you would like to submit payroll for. The user may then respond with the name Bob. The system may then enter Bob into the name field. The system may then proceed to the next field number of hours. The system may then audibly communicate State the number of hours. The user may then respond with 40 hours. Note that for each field the system may utilize an NLP library such as Lingpipe or OpenNLP to decode the user s vocalizations and to communicate audible output back to the user. Note that the NLP library may use a predefined set of criteria to determine whether the user s vocal response matches the field s category. Returning to the above example the system may recognize the word hours in the user s response 40 hours and deduce that the word before hours should be a number. The system may then determine whether that word corresponds to a number. If not the system may audibly request the user to clarify her response. Otherwise the system may be certain with a high level of confidence that the user responded correctly and may enter 40 hours into the field. Note that the system may audibly communicate 40 hours back to the user and then prompt the user to confirm that the value is correct. The system repeats this process for each field until the user finishes her task.

Note that the system may receive a command from the user to disable tracking the speed of the handheld device. In response to this command the system may disable tracking the speed of the handheld device. Note that by disabling the tracking of the device s speed the user may prevent the device from ever prompting her when the device s speed passes the pre determined speed. Note that the prompting may not occur when the application is closed. However note that the prompting may occur when the application is running in the background.

Note that embodiments of the invention may be implemented as an independent service that exists in the device s operating system. Independent applications that reside on the device would then make calls to the service in order to provide the other features of the invention to the user. Note that embodiments of the present invention may exist as a service that lies on top of the handheld device s operating system but independent of any applications installed in the device. Note that applications on the device may invoke the service s application programming interface API in order to perform functions that may include but are not limited to 1 passing audio input to the service where the service may utilize an NLP library to help process the input 2 retrieving the output of the processed input and 3 retrieving the current speed of the handheld device.

Handheld device may include any handheld device that includes computational capability such as PDAs tablet computers laptops smartphones cell phones and other handheld computers.

User can include an individual a group of individuals an organization a group of organizations a computing system a group of computing systems or any other entity that can interact with computing environment .

Vehicle can include any sort of vehicle that requires a substantial amount of the user s attention to drive or pilot including but not limited to cars trucks bicycles boats planes and helicopters.

Locations can include any location that user needs to travel to including but not limited to homes train stations airports restaurants and offices.

Note that different embodiments of the present invention may use different system configurations and are not limited to the system configuration illustrated in computing environment .

During operation the system constantly tracks the speed of a handheld device while a user is interacting with an application installed on the device operation . For example suppose user who is currently located at location which is her office is sending invoices via application on handheld device which is an accelerometer equipped smartphone. While user is engaged in this task speed tracking mechanism may constantly query the accelerometer to calculate device s current speed. Because user is not driving a vehicle device s speed is not above the pre determined speed which is 15 mph in this example. Thus in this case prompting mechanism does not prompt the user to activate hands free mode.

Next once the speed of the handheld device exceeds a pre determined speed the system may prompt the user to activate hands free mode operation . Returning to the above example suppose user has not finished sending invoices on device when she is interrupted by a need to travel to a meeting with a client at location . User enters vehicle and begins driving from location to location with device on vehicle s dashboard. As user accelerates vehicle beyond 15 mph device which has been tracking device s speed all this time detects via the accelerometer that device s speed has exceeded the pre determined speed of 15 mph. As a result prompting mechanism audibly prompts the user to activate hands free mode.

Next the system listens to the user s response and processes the response operation . Returning to the above example device expects user to respond to the prompt with a yes or no answer. Device listens to user s response and sends the response as audio input to NLP mechanism . NLP mechanism processes the audio input and attempts to determine whether the response is yes or no . If NLP mechanism is unable to do so prompting mechanism may prompt user to repeat her response.

Finally depending on the user s response the system activates hands free mode or continues running the application as before operation . Note that ways in which the system decides when the system may prompt the user again include but are not limited to after a set time interval the next time the device s speed exceeds the pre determined speed after the user restarts the application and after the user reboots the device. Returning to the above example if user says yes in response to the prompt device activates hands free mode. If user says no in response to the prompt device does nothing and user is free to continue using her hands to interact with application .

The foregoing descriptions of embodiments of the present invention have been presented only for purposes of illustration and description. They are not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the present invention to the forms disclosed. Accordingly many modifications and variations will be apparent to practitioners skilled in the art. Additionally the above disclosure is not intended to limit the present invention. The scope of the present invention is defined by the appended claims.

