---

title: Systems, devices and methods to communicate public safety information
abstract: Systems, devices and/or methods include communication of information, such as real-time rich media (e.g., video and audio) to, from and/or between a mobile first responder, such as remote public safety field personnel for public safety applications. Sensor data may be captured, stored, or transmitted and disseminated in real-time or on a schedule from field officers or their vehicles, based on one or more defined rules. In some examples, communication priority may be determined in response to detecting one or more events at a location of a mobile first responder.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09135808&OS=09135808&RS=09135808
owner: 
number: 09135808
owner_city: Wilsonville
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121218
---
For many years police and other first responders and public safety personnel have had access to video and audio sensors in their vehicles and on their persons. This media data has been of inestimable value for forensic and investigatory analysis and evidentiary purposes as it provides an unambiguous data log of events that occur during a public safety operation or action.

Police may have video and audio devices built into their vehicles to observe the environment of an operation or action watchdog systems built into the electronics of their vehicles to determine speed location and other properties sensors connected to their sirens and lights to record when they are deployed detection equipment and video sensors built into their utility belts and related equipment that can record when they unholster their pepper spray tasers or firearms or when they release the safety features of their firearms and discharge them.

Typically this data is not available for real time dissemination to other remote field officers or central command to provide real time warning of a dangerous situation or to help with real time coordination of a public safety operation. This valuable sensor information may be left unreviewed or recorded on a storage system mounted within a vehicle and is later conveyed to a central station at the end of a shift when the officer and his her vehicle have returned to a precinct parking facility.

Methods systems and devices are disclosed to provide automatic communications and communication of sensor data obtained at a location of a mobile field officer or other mobile first responder. A method wireless communication may comprise detecting one or more events at a location of a mobile first responder determining a communication priority level in response to the detecting of one or more events establishing a first wireless communication from the mobile first responder in a wireless communication system having a plurality of communication priority levels including the determined communication priority level the determined wireless communication level being assigned to the first wireless communication.

The method may include determining a threat level to the mobile first responder based upon the detecting of the one or more events and determining the communication priority level in response to the determined threat level.

The detecting one or more events may comprise detecting a change in the state of a weapon of the first responder.

The detecting one or more events may comprise detecting at least one of unholstering a weapon putting a safety mechanism of a weapon in an off state firing a weapon and deploying a weapon.

The method of claim wherein detecting the stress level of the first responder may comprise monitoring a heart rate of the first responder.

The detecting one or more events may comprise detecting the status of a vehicle associated with the first responder.

The detecting the status of the vehicle associated with the first responder may comprise detecting a speed of the vehicle.

The status of the vehicle associated with the first responder may comprise detecting a speed of the vehicle higher than a first value. The first value may be a fixed value or a value determined based upon a location of the vehicle.

The method may comprise determining locations that are typical for stopping a vehicle and determining that the vehicle has stopped at a location that is not one of the locations determined to be typical for stopping a vehicle.

The detecting the status of the vehicle may comprise detecting turning on at least one of a siren or emergency lights of the vehicle.

The detecting the status of the vehicle may comprise detecting that the vehicle has been in an accident.

The plurality of communication priority levels of the wireless communication system may be used by the wireless communication system to determine a bandwidth or a quality of service of plural communication links of the wireless communication system.

The plurality of communication priority levels may be used by the communication system to determine which of plural communication links of the wireless communication system to terminate in the event of over congestion of the communication system.

The method may comprise a first wireless communication with the mobile first responder and an additional party wherein the additional party is selected in response to the determined communication priority level.

Establishing the first wireless communication with the first mobile responder may be automatically established in response to the detecting of the one or more events.

The one or more additional first responders may be selected for receiving the first wireless communication based upon respective one or more locations one or more additional first responders.

The one or more additional first responders may be selected for receiving the first wireless communication based upon an authority rank associated with the one or more additional first responders.

The additional party may select rules for receiving communications and the method may include establishing a first wireless communication with the mobile first responder and the additional party in response to the determined communication priority level and the rules selected by the additional party.

Establishing the first wireless communication with the first mobile responder may be automatically established in response to the detecting of the one or more events.

The first wireless communication may transmit images taken from the location of the first responder. The images may be video images and or still images.

The method may include at a location of a first responder receiving a wireless communication request to establish a wireless communication with a communications device and a priority level associated with the wireless communication request and determining whether to accept the wireless communication request to establish immediate communication with the first responder in response to the priority level.

The communications device may provide a first indication of the priority level associated with the wireless communication request to assist a first responder in determining whether or not to accept the wireless communication request.

A user interface of the communications device may be used to set one or more rules and the method may comprise determining whether to accept the wireless communication request in response to the priority level and the one or more rules.

The methods may comprise selecting the first indication from a plurality of different types of indications in response to the setting of one or more rules.

Accepting the wireless communication request may comprise expanding a size of the video in the display.

The methods may include a first rule set of one or more rules for a first time period and setting a second rule set of one or more rules for a second time period the first rule set being different than the second rule set.

Methods may comprise during the first time period receiving a first wireless communication request to establish a wireless communication with the communications device and a first priority level associated with the first wireless communication request and during the second time period receiving a second wireless communication request to establish a wireless communication with the communications device and a first priority level associated with the second wireless communication request in response to the first set of rules and the first priority level accepting the first wireless communication request to establish immediate communication with the first responder in response to the second set of rules and the second priority level preventing or delaying the second wireless communication request to establish communication with the first responder.

Methods may comprise during the second time period receiving a third wireless communication request to establish a wireless communication with the communications device and a second priority level associated with the second wireless communication request and in response to the second set of rules and the second priority level accepting the third wireless communication request.

In response to the second set of rules and the second priority level storing at the communications device a communication associated with the second wireless communication request.

Methods may comprise detecting one or more events at a location of a first mobile first responder establishing a first wireless communication between the first mobile responder and a second mobile first responder automatically in response to the detecting of the one or more events.

The first wireless communication may comprise transmission of images taken at the location of the first mobile first responder to the second mobile first responder.

Methods may comprise via a user interface of a first device at the location of the first mobile first responder setting one or more rules and establishing the first wireless communication between the first mobile responder and the second mobile first responder automatically in response to the detecting of the one or more events and the setting of one or more rules.

The setting of one or more rules comprises selecting one or more events indicative of a threat to the mobile first responder wherein upon detection of an event that has been selected the first wireless communication is automatically established.

Setting one or more rules may comprise deselecting one or more of the selected one or more events so that detection of an event that has been deselected does not automatically establish the first wireless communication.

The detecting one or more events may comprise detecting a change in the state of a weapon of the first responder unholstering a weapon putting a safety mechanism of a weapon in an off state firing a weapon and deploying a weapon detecting a stress level of the first responder monitoring a heart rate of the first responder detecting the status of a vehicle associated with the first responder detecting a speed of the vehicle detecting a speed of the vehicle higher than a first value the first value may be a fixed value or a value determined based upon a location of the vehicle determining that the vehicle has stopped determining locations that are typical for stopping a vehicle determining that the vehicle has stopped at a location that is not one of the locations determined to be typical for stopping a vehicle detecting an opening of a door of the vehicle detecting turning on at least one of a siren or emergency lights of the vehicle detecting a deployment of airbags and or detecting that the vehicle has been in an accident. Detecting one or more events may comprise analysis of video to determine data and or events occurring in the video such as gun drawn license plate identification information e.g. a license plate number which may include alphanumeric identifiers officer running officer prone officer falling down etc.

Selecting of the second mobile first responder may include determining a location of the second mobile first responder and selecting the second mobile first responder in response to the determined location.

The second mobile first responder may be selected in response to being one of within a first distance of the first mobile first responder and within an estimated first time away from the first mobile first responder. The first distance may be a predetermined value. Or the second mobile first responder may be selected in response to being closer than other mobile first responders.

Methods may include determining one or more events at a location of a mobile first responder setting one or more rules via a user interface of a communications device establishing a first wireless communication from the communications device at the location of first mobile responder automatically in response to the detecting of the one or more events and the one or more rules.

The first wireless communication may comprise transmission of images taken at the location of the first mobile first responder to the second mobile first responder.

The setting of one or more rules may comprise selecting a first time period and a first rule set of one or more rules associated with the second time period and a second time period and a second rule set of one or more rules associated with the second time period the second set being different from the first set.

The setting of one or more rules may comprise providing information via the user interface indicating when the mobile first responder is on duty.

The setting of one or more rules may comprise setting a first rule via the user interface to restrict automatically establishing wireless communications to a first group of personnel and setting a second rule via the user interface to allow automatically establishing wireless communications to the first group of personnel and a second group of personnel.

The first group may be a first agency associated with the mobile first responder and the second group includes an agency different than the first agency.

The first and second agencies may be different agencies of the following police department fire department emergency medical services and military.

Setting one or more rules via the user interface of the communication device may comprise selection one of plural modes of the communication device.

Various example embodiments will be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which some example embodiments are shown. The present invention may however be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the example embodiments set forth herein. These example embodiments are just that examples and many implementations and variations are possible that do not require the details provided herein. It should also be emphasized that the disclosure provides details of alternative examples but such listing of alternatives is not exhaustive. Furthermore any consistency of detail between various examples should not be interpreted as requiring such detail it is impracticable to list every possible variation for every feature described herein. The language of the claims should be referenced in determining the requirements of the invention. In the drawings the size and relative sizes of layers and regions may be exaggerated for clarity. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout.

It will be understood that although the terms first second third etc. may be used herein to describe various elements components regions layers and or sections these elements components regions layers and or sections should not be limited by these terms. These terms are only used to distinguish one element component region layer or section from another region layer or section. Thus a first element component region layer or section discussed below could be termed a second element component region layer or section without departing from the teachings.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises comprising includes including have having etc. when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof. As used herein the term and or includes any and all combinations of one or more of the associated listed items.

It will be understood that when an element or layer is referred to as being on connected to coupled to adjacent to or communicating with another element it can be directly on connected coupled adjacent or communicating to the other element or intervening elements may be present. In contrast when an element is referred to as being directly on directly connected to directly coupled to immediately adjacent to or directly communicating with another element there are no intervening elements or layers present.

Unless otherwise defined all terms including technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this inventive concept belongs. It will be further understood that terms such as those defined in commonly used dictionaries should be interpreted as having a meaning that is consistent with their meaning in the context of the relevant art and or the present specification and will not be interpreted in an idealized or overly formal sense unless expressly so defined herein.

The sensing device may comprise one or more of a video sensor a still image sensor an infra red sensor a thermal image sensor a microphone or other audio capture device a utility belt status sensor to sense the status of a utility belt or instruments associated with the utility belt such as whether a gun Taser pepper spray or other weapon has been unholstered a weapons sensor sensing if a gun Taser pepper spray or other weapon has had a respective safety device released or if the weapon has been discharged a heart rate monitor to monitor the heart rate of the field officer a stress sensor providing stress indicator data e.g. pupil dilation accelerated breathing and or adrenaline sensed from field officer a running sensor e.g. an accelerometer to determine if the officer is running and or a sensor to determine if the officer is lying down or otherwise not in a vertical position. The sensing device may comprise a button or other trigger mechanism which may be self actuated by the field officer . Sensing device may additionally have a means for capturing tagging or transmitting meta data information such as global positioning or GPS data GIS or location data date and time data. The sensing device may also have the ability to analyze the video image and or audio it captures and transmit such analysis via communication link alone or with other sensing device data such as by attaching the analysis as metadata to a transmitted video image and or audio.

Additionally sensors mounted in or on the vehicle block may also generate information. These sensors may include one or more of the sensors noted above with respect to sensing device such as video or still image sensors thermal or IR image sensors global positioning or GPS sensors GIS location information devices. Sensors may also include alternatively or in addition flashing light status sensors siren status sensors door lock unlock sensors door open close sensors or seat occupancy sensors. These sensors may also include remote portable sensors such as temporarily deployable video sensors that may be set up to support a particular operation or action e.g. setting up a temporary public safety perimeter around a public event such as a music concert .

Sensor data may also include data provided by analysis of video or still images taken from a camera mounted on the vehicle or carried by the officer e.g. mounted on a helmet or gun of the officer . For example by analyzing video images the sensor data may include a gun withdrawn data which may be a gun of the officer or gun of an unidentified third party or officer prone when detecting the lying down of an officer. Sensor data may also include license plate number including alphanumeric license plate numbers to compare against a database which may then be used as a basis for a rule described later .

This embodiment of the present invention includes wireless communication links a broadband network and wired communications links and . Communication links and are exemplary and each may include combinations of wireless and wired communication links or fully consist of wired or wireless communication links. Each of the communication links and are illustrated and described as a single link but may comprise multiple separate links e.g. such as one communication link for each of plural remote mobile officers . Communication links and that are fully or partially wireless may promote the mobility of field officer . also shows a dispatch service with dispatch personnel a commander such as a precinct commander or shift commander and additional remote field officers . Each or multiple groups of the additional remote field officers may be equipped with their own sensing device s sensor s and or vehicle with corresponding separate communication links if implemented . Throughout this disclosure exemplary details regarding remote officer devices associated with remote officer such as sensing device s communication link sensor s vehicle communication link and the operation of such devices may be equally applicable to additional remote field officers . Similarly exemplary details regarding remote officers devices associated with remote officers and their operation may be equally applicable to remote officer . The broadband network block may be any suitable communications network such as public mobile phone networks wireless LAN networks wide area networks WANs and metropolitan area networks MANs and or networks owned and operated by a single organization. Recently the NTIA and FCC have allocated a 10 MHz block of wireless bandwidth in the D Block of the radio frequency spectrum 700 800 MHz for use by public safety users. This block is adjacent to a 10 MHz block already allocated for public safety use creating a 20 MHz contiguous frequency block residing between 763 and 793 MHz that will be the basis for a new broadband public safety wireless network known as FirstNet. This network may use Long Term Evolution LTE or more commonly 4G technology to create a dedicated nationwide broadband network for public safety users and may be capable of real time media streaming and transmission using standard network streaming techniques and protocols. The broadband network may have one or more of these noted characteristics of the FirstNet system or include the FirstNet system. The wireless communication link may be implemented by or part of the broadband network . Communication links and and broadband network may form elements of a communication network allowing data such as sensor data commands requests to be transmitted between users such as field officers dispatch personnel and commanders . For example real time or recorded sensor information of sensing device s and sensors that may include rich media may be transmitted with the communications network via a broadband wireless network to a remote location such as to one or more of dispatch personnel commander s and other mobile field officers . Dispatch personnel and or commander s may react to such information and send commands via the communication network to other remote field officers . In this embodiment and the other embodiments described herein establishing communications and the communications themselves between field officers may be through the broadband network or may be made point to point directly between officers or using some other communication network . Point to point communications that do not use the broadband network may avoid unnecessary congestion of communication traffic over the broadband network . Use of point to point communications between field officers may be in addition to the use of the broadband network which may be used to provide information to a central station e.g. to commander or dispatch and or establish and provide communications between field officers that may be too far away from each other for effective point to point communications. Exemplary details of such communications are described elsewhere herein.

Sensor data of sensing device s and or sensors which may include rich media may be transmitted over broadband network using standard internet protocols such as HTML Secure HTML Encrypted HTML XML Flash REST SOAP and or using proprietary protocols that may be more suitable to public safety applications. Furthermore rich media from the field officer or his vehicle and can be disseminated to one or more different locations. For example employing TCP IP multiple sockets can be opened between the officer or the officer s vehicle and several receivers such as a dispatch service a commander e.g. shift commander or precinct commander or fellow remote field officers via their own wireless communications equipment. Alternatively using UDP IP communications e.g. sensor data rich media data etc. can be broadcast and received by multiple listeners such as by dispatch personnel commander s and or other remote field officers .

Sensor data such as audio video still images and rich media may be transmitted uncompressed or compressed using any compression schema codec and or protocol including but not limited to QuickTime AVI Flash MPEG 1 MPEG 2 MPEG 4 H.263 MJPEG MJPEG200 and associated audio formats such as WAV MP3 AIFF H.261 and so on.

The officer may carry a mobile transmission device to transmit sensor data via communication link through the broadband network to the desired destination. The mobile transmission device may be a mobile phone tablet PDA or other custom or proprietary mobile device with a wireless transceiver capable of communicating directly with a broadband wireless network via wireless communication link . The broadband network may be the FirstNet system based on the D Block bandwidth allocated to public safety use by the NTIA and the FCC for example.

Sensor data may be transmitted over broadband network and may use standard internet methods and protocols such as HTML Secure HTML Encrypted HTML XML Flash REST SOAP. However the invention does not preclude the use of a proprietary protocol that may be more suitable to public safety applications. Rich media from the field officer or his vehicle and in may be disseminated to one or more different locations. For example employing TCP IP multiple sockets can be opened between the officer or the officer s vehicle and several receivers such as a dispatch service a shift commander or precinct commander or fellow remote field officers via their own wireless communications equipment . Alternatively using UDP IP rich media data can be broadcast and received by multiple listeners such as dispatch shift or precinct commanders and or other remote field officers .

Sensor data such as audio and video may be transmitted uncompressed or compressed using any compression schema codec and or protocol including but not limited to QuickTime AVI Flash MPEG 1 MPEG 2 MPEG 4 H.263 MJPEG MJPEG200 and associated audio formats such as WAV MP3 AIFF H.261 and so on.

Live or recorded rich media or other sensor data may be streamed in real time or after the fact to other remote field officers . illustrates an exemplary process. Rich media or other sensor data described herein is acquired by remote mobile officers with sensors on their person or in their vehicles. This information is sent over the broadband network from a wireless transceiver via a communication link . Again the system may use of all of the same types of data and data transmission protocols as discussed elsewhere herein. In this example the information is sent via the broadband wireless network to a specific remote field officer . The information is received via wireless communication link by a mobile communications system mounted in the remote officer s vehicle or by a mobile device such as a phone tablet PDA or other wireless device being carried by the officer . Alternatively the information could be received by a device mounted in the officer s vehicle and then transmitted locally to a display device carried by the officer . The transmission may be accomplished via a local wireless communication channel employing some wireless communication means as Bluetooth IR communications microwave communications GPRS local WiFi 802.11x radio serial radio 3G WCDMA CDMA 2000 EV DO TD SCDMA WiMax 4G or other type of wireless connection.

There are a number of different ways the decision may be made to route the rich media or other sensor data to the remote field officer . In one embodiment a rule based system is collocated with a remote officer . The system may reside on a mobile device on board the officer s vehicle or on the person of the officer . The rule based system may contain a rule that specifies under which circumstances certain information should be transmitted via the broadband wireless network and to where such information should be transmitted such as to a particular one or more of the remote field officers and or the commander and or dispatch personnel . Alternatively in another embodiment the sensor data such as rich media may be transmitted from a remote officer to a central location such as a dispatch office or a commander e.g. a shift commander or precinct commander . Authorized personnel at the central location and or may decide that the remote field officer should receive the sensor data information such as by streaming the received video or transmitting still images or transmitting text regarding a detected event derived from the sensor data. Such information may be routed directly to the remote officer via the broadband network . In yet another embodiment a rule based system may resides at the central location e.g. or that receives sensor data or processed sensor data from one or more of the officers and that employs a rule that specifies under which conditions the information should be automatically routed to another of the remote field officers such as field officers .

Users of the system may control what information is transmitted to which other users. A rule based expert system may be used to control data flow. This system is described in more detail during the discussion of . shows system architecture of one embodiment comprising a mobile system mobile device that is in the possession of one or more remote field officers. This mobile system or device could be mounted in a vehicle carried by the field officer or may be a distributed system with elements located with the field officer and his her vehicle. The mobile system device may comprise a computer or computing platform e.g. a computer comprising a processor memory for data and programming etc. that may form elements of a portable mobile device such as a smart phone PDA tablet or other portable computing platform such as a laptop or vehicle mounted computer. The mobile system device comprises one or more sensors a display and or user interface a suite of management software block a wireless broadband communications system block and local data storage and an external input output I O interface . The computer of the mobile system may be comprised of elements of the mobile system device such as local storage e.g. volatile memory and or non volatile memory storing software comprising management software the external input outputs wireless communication block and a processor used to control and access the same to implement the methods described herein.

The sensor s may be the same as those of sensing device and or sensors discussed herein and may include audio and or video sensors still imagery sensors infrared or thermal imagery sensors. They may be mounted either in the vehicle or carried on the person of the field officer. They may also be directly integrated into the computing platform of the mobile system or device . For example sensor s may comprise a video camera integrated into a smart phone or PDA. The sensors may be separated from the computing platform and may communicate by a wired or wireless communication means.

The display and or user interface may be used to view live sensor data e.g. video and audio review locally recorded sensor data view sensor data streamed to the device from other sources via the broadband wireless network and to configure and control the mobile system device. The interface comprises a display screen and an input device such as a touch screen keyboard mouse trackball track pad or other such mechanism. The input device may comprise a microphone and voice recognition circuitry such as a software programmed computer firmware hardware etc. to receive and interpret commands of the user e.g. a remote field officer allowing hands free control such as issuing one or more commands of the mobile system device . The input device may comprise a motion detector and motion interpretation circuitry such as a software programmed computer firmware hardware etc. to detect motion of the user and interpret such motion to control such as issuing one or more commands the mobile system device . The user may thus issue commands without requiring holding or manipulating the mobile system device . Voice activated commands may include commands to accept a communication e.g. to allow display of video or still images to request back up to notify others of a particular situation e.g. burglary in progress and such commands may be associated with the automatic transmission of sensor data as described elsewhere herein. Motion activated commands may include simple quick gestures. For example waving a hand such as across a display of interface of the mobile system device may be interpreted as a command to accept a communication request and or display video or still images or to initiate a communication to transmit of sensor data as described elsewhere herein. The display may be integrated into the computing platform i.e. the screen of a smart phone PDA tablet or laptop or may be a separate device connected to the computing platform via a wired or wireless communication means.

The management software controls the device or system and runs on a processor within the computing platform. Management software block may be implemented by conventional computer software stored in local storage firmware or by a specialty processing device such as an FPGA ASIC or other custom hardware.

The wireless communications sub system block manages communications between the system or device and the broadband wireless network . Wireless communication block may comprise a wireless communication chipset separate from the processor of the computer or may be formed as a functional block using the processor of the computer and software. Wireless communication block may comprise a wireless radio and transceiver configured to communicate with the broadband network using the appropriate wireless protocols such as Bluetooth IR communications microwave communications GPRS local WiFi 802.11x radio serial radio 3G WCDMA CDMA 2000 EV DO TD SCDMA WiMax 4G. In one specific embodiment it could use the LTE wireless protocols of the FirstNet system employing the D Block bandwidth specified for public safety use.

The optional local storage may be used to store and review rich media and other sensor data and may be integrated with the processing device or may be a separate storage unit. It may consist of magnetic optical or solid state storage media or any other data storage mechanism. The storage device may also be used as the source of rich media information that could be viewed by the officer or transmitted by the system to one or more remote users.

The external I O interface is used to integrate the mobile device or system with other systems or subsystems within the environment of the remote field officer or his her vehicle. These external systems can be used as triggers to control the capture storage transmission and management of the rich media from the sensors . They may also receive data that can be used as meta data that may be tagged to sensor data received from sensors . For example time and or location data received via external I O interface via a universal clock or GPS system may be tagged to video or images obtained from sensors as meta data. Examples of other systems that may be integrated include but are not limited to universal date time systems global positioning GPS systems GIS databases vehicle management systems such as speed detection systems emergency lights emergency sirens vehicle door systems weapon handling systems operational or case specific data repositories or any other systems that may be able to provide data to a public safety field officer. Information of these systems and or of sensors may be provided via external I O interface or other interfaces within the mobile system device .

Information captured or stored by the mobile system or device may be transmitted via a broadband wireless network to a central management station or directly or indirectly to other systems such as other mobile systems devices which may have the same structure described herein with respect to mobile system device or other display consoles . The management software block may be responsible for determining when rich media or other sensor data is stored or transferred over the broadband network and to which end user. The management software may use a rules based engine to make those determinations. The rules engine or one of the users of the mobile system device may determine that multiple recipients should receive sensor data. For example a rule could determine that under certain conditions rich media data such as video or images is automatically sent to a central station. A rule implemented by the management software may determine that under certain circumstances rich media or other sensor data should be sent to other first responders. The rules may determine which specific first responders should get access to the data. For example first responders within a certain geographic region e.g. within two miles of the data source may be selected as recipients of the rich media or other sensor data. The rules may determine that only responders or recipients of certain rank may get the rich media data or other sensor data. For example upon detection of certain events a shift commander may be selected to receive all of the data a remote squad leader may be selected get text alerts and video and other local field officers may be selected to receive just alert information without the rich media accompaniments.

Furthermore each mobile system device may be configured to create multiple different sets of data and simultaneously or in succession transmit the data to multiple recipients or storage devices . For example different versions of the sensor data obtained from the same event may be sent to different groups of recipients. For example a shift commander may receive live video streamed from the originating officer while other field officers local to the originating officer may only receive audio or text alerts. The types of events detected by mobile system device may determine the recipients of particular sensor data of sensors . For example detection of a stopped vehicle event may cause transmission of a stopped vehicle alert with certain associated sensor data e.g. video to be sent to a shift commander in contrast detection of an unholstered gun event may cause transmission of an unholstered gun alert with certain associated sensor data to all personnel within a certain geographical distance. As alternative to geographical distance in this embodiment and other disclosed embodiments herein a calculation of an estimated arrival time may be used based on road map information and estimated speeds.

The recipients may be part of the same service or agency or may be from different government or other civil agencies. For example routine police events may trigger the system to send information to other members of the same agency e.g. the police department or to the same precinct within the police department but detection of weapon based events or detection of vehicle crash events may automatically cause messages data rich media and or other information to be sent to other agencies such as EMT s Paramedics local law enforcement state law enforcement federal law enforcement e.g. FBI local Fire and Rescue units and or military units. Sensor data may be transmitted to recipients of a different agency of the transmitting field officer by selection by the transmitting field officer or by the central station e.g. commanders or dispatch . For example it may be determined that a car chase is likely heading to a district boundary of a neighboring police district. The chasing officer or personnel of the central station may select an option on the mobile system device to transmit sensor data and or establish communications with neighboring field officers and or the central station of the neighboring police district. As another example a police officer may recognize the need to involve the fire department and or medical services and may select an option on the mobile system device to transmit sensor data and or establish communications with the local fire department and or emergency medical teams. As another example during the fighting of a wildfire the wind direction may change and threaten other districts. A fire fighter field officer may select an option on the mobile system device to transmit sensor data and or establish communications with a fire department of a neighboring district.

The central station may be used as a central storage repository for received sensor data from mobile system devices and a command and control center. A precinct commander or shift commander or other authorized personnel may manage view store and disseminate sensor data such as rich media received from each of the mobile systems devices . The central station system may allow a shift commander or precinct commander to configure or if necessary override the functionality of each of the mobile systems devices . For example a field officer may configure a remote mobile system device to record video without transmission whenever he or she turns on the emergency flashing lights in his her vehicle. The shift commander or precinct commander may override that rule and have the mobile system device both record and transmit video whenever the emergency flashing lights are turned on.

To that end the central station system includes management software block configured to allow a user to view store manage and transmit received sensor data such as rich media. It also may have functionality that allows a user to configure one or more mobile devices or systems block and . The Management software may be implemented by conventional computer software firmware or a specialty processor such as an FPGA ASIC or other custom hardware. And the software may reside on a conventional PC or server a laptop a tablet smart phone PDA or any other computing device.

The central station may also include a communication channel block that allows it to receive and transmit data from and to the wireless broadband network block . This component may be a wireless radio and transceiver capable of communicating with the broadband network block using the appropriate wireless protocols such as Bluetooth IR communications microwave communications GPRS local WiFi 802.11x radio serial radio 3G WCDMA CDMA 2000 EV DO TD SCDMA WiMax 4G. In one specific embodiment it may use the LTE wireless protocols of the FirstNet system employing the D Block bandwidth specified for public safety use by NTIA and the FCC.

The central station may also be connect to a number of data stores and for storage retrieval and management of sensor data such as rich media storage operational data storage and other pertinent data storage such as rules for applying to sensor data for event detection and information distribution to others connected to the broadband network . Rich media stored in storage may include audio and video sensor data with associated meta data tags. Operational data stored in storage may include such information as shift details officer profiles HR information and other types of operational information. Data stored in storage may include information criminal statistics or demographic information GIS information or other secondary information. These data stores and may be regular data bases or other types of information storage and may comprise standard magnetic optical and or solid state storage memory.

Additionally the central station may include a user interface so that a user may view store manage and or transmit sensor data including rich media and associated information. The user interface may include one or more displays for displaying event detection alerts video and or still image sensor data. The user interface may include a data input device such as a keyboard mouse trackpad etc. to configure the system and control one or more mobile systems devices .

The central station system may support one or more visualization clients e.g. one or more displays for simultaneously displaying sensor video and or image data from one or more of mobile systems devices so that other users such as dispatch trainees or other investigators can view rich media and other sensor information from the mobile devices or systems.

The rich media is managed by a media manager component block . The media manager may be formed by a processor and may be a separate processor or the same processor as that of the rules engine . The media manager routes the media to one or more locations based on input from the rules engine block . Media manager may determine to ignore sensor data store all or some of the sensor data on a local storage device block or automatically initiate transmission of all or selected portions which may be selected based on rules of the sensor data to one or more remote sites via the broadband wireless network . Local media storage may be a memory of a computer which forms the mobile system device . The media manager may maintain the local memory buffer so that there is always several seconds of stored media available in the buffer if the system or an external user decides that a certain amount of media in the buffer e.g. pre roll media should be stored or transmitted. The length of the local memory buffer may be configurable. Also note that there may be multiple buffers to store multiple channels of rich media if there are multiple sensors connected to the system. For example there may be multiple vehicle mounted video cameras and or multiple video cameras mounted on the field officer s person or equipment and each of the multiple buffers may be assigned to a video camera to buffer corresponding output video of that video camera.

The rules engine block may be comprise a processor which forms a digital logic engine that uses a standard rule based approach to determine what to do with any particular segment of rich media that is available to the media manager block . The rules engine using standard logic can decide whether media from a particular source at particular time should be ignored stored locally or transmitted to one or more remote locations. For example the rules engine block can decide that all video from the vehicle mounted camera should be stored when the vehicle s lights are flashing or the siren is turned on. Or the rules engine block can decide that all video from the field officer s weapon should be transmitted to the shift commander any time the weapon has been unholstered. It is also possible that a remote user such as a shift commander can override the rules engine and require that for example all video from a vehicle mounted camera should be transmitted to all local units. These are obviously just examples and there are many other potential rule scenarios available to any person of skill in the art.

The rules engine block may match a set of real time triggers against a data base block of pre defined rules to determine if a particular rule condition has been met. The database may be memory of a computer of the mobile system device . In some examples the database may be downloaded from a remote central station. If the condition has been met the rules engine block provides the media manager block with a pre defined set of instructions for media management. Additionally asynchronous commands can be fed to the rules engine block by the data transceiver block which interprets external commands from a shift commander or other authorized personnel at the central command station of .

Rules can be set up for transmitting information based on a number of different conditions. The information that is transmitted may be any combination of video still images audio text or any other sensor or alert data. Any of the triggers described in block or elsewhere in this specification may form the basis of a data transmission rule. The rules engine may apply a rule may against the sensor data including images audio and other sensor data such as from external triggers or sensors to determine a priority for a transmission or other communication. Priority for a transmission or other communication may also be based on a manual input. Priority for a transmission may be provided to media transceiver to communicate the priority of an associated communication to the broadband network via communication channel . The rules engine may determine when to whom and what is transmitted. Media manager may be responsive to the rules engine to establish communications accordingly. Priority for a transmission may also be used to communicate with the broadband network to determine a communications priority with respect to other communications within the broadband network . For example event detection by rules engine based on analysis of sensor data from external triggers and or sensors may result in a communications priority of 3 on a scale of 0 to 5. When performing subsequent related communications via broadband network the broadband network may allocate bandwidth for such related communications giving bandwidth and or quality of service priority to such related communications over those communications with lesser priority e.g. with priority 0 2 . A rule may be devised so that the transmission of particular sensor data triggered by detection of certain events includes additional details including location name and rank of the originating officer or the duty status on duty or off duty of the originating officer. A rule may store or transmit data based on location or time. For example only send data to receivers within a couple of miles of my current location or only send data between a start time of my shift and an end time of my shift . Rules may also instruct the system when and how to store messages and data within the local storage media block . Any or all of the previously described conditions and or sensor data can be used to trigger transmission and which sensor data is transmitted in response to one or more rules applied to such sensor data.

Real time sensor data may enter the system through the external I O interface block . This real time sensor data may act as external triggers block and may originate from many other systems in the environment of the field officer and his her vehicle. For example these sensor data triggers could be generated by vehicle systems such as the vehicle starting stopping moving at a particular speed turning the siren on or off turning the emergency lights on or off or systems on the officer s person such as weapon systems unholstering a weapon releasing a safety device discharging a weapon etc. a heart monitor or a panic button. Real time sensor data triggers may be stored in a FIFO queue within a trigger manager block and then sent to the rules engine block for processing. The sensor data triggers from block may also be stored in local media storage or other storage without transmission for later analysis.

Rich media such as video and still images may be stored locally by recording it in the local media storage device block . Media that should be transmitted to a remote location e.g. based upon a detection of a certain event by rules engine may be sent to the media transceiver block and encoded for transmission via the wireless communication channel block to the broadband network. Command and control or configuration information may be received from a remote location over the communication channel block and may be sent to a data transceiver block that decodes the command control or configuration information and passes it to the rules engine block for processing.

The media manager block has access to the decoded rich media data and routes it appropriately based on input from the rules engine block . The media manager may ignore the media store it in the local media storage for later review or feed it directly to a user interface so that an officer can view it on his or her user display which may be part of the user interface . The determination of handling the media by mobile system device may be based upon settings within the mobile system device and meta data information associated with the received media. For example the field officer may set the mobile system device to ignore media having lower priority levels store media for later review having medium priority levels and immediately display media having higher priority levels. Additionally the system may provide an alarm to the field officer to alert him or her that there is some media of interest available on the display . Certain priority levels may provide a visual and or audio alert to the field officer to allow selection by the field officer e.g. touch screen activation by tapping the portion of the screen showing a visual alert or otherwise perform a selection via user interface to start display of the received rich media. User interface may be integrated with display sensors see or a separate interface in communication with media manager and rules engine .

The system also allows a user to determining how an incoming message may be reported or even if it is reported . The incoming message may be displayed as a text message on a screen in the vehicle or on the officer s person an audio alarm a vibration of a mobile device a voice message a still image or video image on a display screen either picture in picture or a whole image . Once a message is accepted the incoming rich media or other data can be displayed fully on the display of the mobile system device . Rules can be set up in the rules engine block to manage incoming messages.

The rules engine block may be responsible for making the determination of how to route the incoming rich media based on the priority of the incoming control information from the data transceiver block balanced against the existing local environment as captured by information in the trigger management block . For example a shift commander may route some video to a field officer and suggest that the officer view it. However the officer may have his or her weapon drawn with the safety device released and may be in a life threatening situation. Under these conditions the rules engine block may determine not to distract the field officer with external alarms or information and delay presentation of such alarms or information until a later time. Rules can be set up for receiving or denying or delaying incoming information based on a number of different conditions. Any of the triggers described in block or elsewhere in this specification may form the basis of a data management rule. Or a rule may be based on the priority of the incoming message or the rank of the originator of the message. Or a rule may be based on location or time. For example only show me data that is generated within a couple of miles of my current location or show me data during my shift but not after I ve ended it or show me data of low to high priority during my shift but only data of high priority outside my shift . These rules may control if and when incoming messages and data are displayed and or accepted or rejected. Rules may also be created to instruct the system when and how to store incoming messages and data within the local storage media block . Any or all of the previously described conditions can be used as the basis of rules to that can be applied to incoming messages and data to control local storage.

The user uses the mobile configuration user interface to create a set of management rules that control the rules engine block at run time. These rules may be previously created as sets of rules for selection by the user and or individually created. These rules may be stored for retrieval in the local rules database . After creation of additional rules or rule sets these may be stored in the local rules database for later retrieval and use. Additionally these user defined rules may be encoded by an on board data transceiver and transmitted over the wireless broadband network to a centrally located rules database and personnel e.g. a commander at the central station .

A remote shift commander or a centrally located operator may also configure the system. In one example a shift commander can create media management rules that may override a field officer s rules. Such a rule might be that the shift commander creates a rule for a particular officer that instructs the system to transmit all video and audio from that officer s vehicle whenever the emergency lights or siren are switched on in that vehicle. This rule is sent asynchronously via the broadband network to the rules engine in the field officer s local system and is stored locally in the local rules database . In another example a shift officer may create a central rule such as whenever field officer 24601 is transmitting video and he has his weapon drawn that video should be automatically retransmitted to all other officers within a selected distance e.g. a one mile radius of officer 24601. This rule may be interpreted by the management software block at the central station block and then video with commands to display video may be transmitted from the central station block to other mobile devices or systems block belonging to other field officers .

In this example interface displays video in window which may comprise a portion of the display of interface . Video in window may be video being sent and displayed in real time from another remote field officer or it may be stored e.g. locally to allow display at a time convenient for the field officer receiving the video. Window may also present audio information and other sensor information such as GPS GIS or other on board system or operational information. Window may also display textual information such as text indicating events detected associated with video of window which may include events detected by analysis of the video of window and or other sensor information of sensors of the mobile system device of the associated field officer . The interface may allow user authentication to allow an officer to log on to the system with a unique identifier window and has a window to allow the user to define rules for transmission of sensor data such as rich media to third parties over the broadband network. Window allows the user create a rule to have mobile system device automatically perform some action upon the occurrence of a certain event or set of events. This detected event may constitute one or a set of occurrences as detected by sensing devices and or sensors and or event detection from analysis of video and or still images provided by video or still image cameras. The action automatically performed by the mobile system device may constitute transmission of an alert and or selected sensor data such as video or still images from a camera mounted on the vehicle of the mobile field officer or carried by the field officer . In this example the user has selected transmission of video audio and other data identified by LIST to be sent to dispatch and shift command whenever flashers are on the siren is on and the door of the vehicle is open. In this example AND Boolean logic is used. Other Boolean logic such as OR and or NOT may be employed to allow for any combination of events. For example automatic actions may be triggered when door is open AND siren is on OR flashers are on . As another example automatic actions may be triggered when weapon is fired AND always but NOT at time 3 00 to 4 00 e.g. to avoid practice at a firing range causing the associated automatic transmission . As another example a rule may trigger an automatic action by combining vehicle stops AND vehicle is NOT located in a certain geographic area alternatively combining vehicle stops AND vehicle is located in a certain geographic area . The listed actions in window are not exhaustive and a limited list is shown for ease of explanation. The example may include any of the actions representative of the sensor data of the sensors sensing devices described herein as well as information derived from processed sensor data. For example the list of actions may include vehicle stopped and vehicle at excessive speed which may both be derived by processing speedometer sensor data speed data and may also include processing GPS data e.g. to determine speed limits of the area in which the vehicle is traveling to compare with the speed of the vehicle to determine if the vehicle is traveling at excessive speed . In the example of the user has also selected that video and audio be stored locally upon occurrence of these same events. The user may give this rule a particular rule name and store the same to be selected at a later time from one of the rules listed in a rule list displayed in window . The list of available rules in window allows the operator to activate and deactivate those rules at will.

There are many different and well known ways of defining a set of logical rules within a system such as SQL prolog R and others . What is presented in is an exemplary graphical representation of a logic programming means. For example window shows a list of potential trigger events such as emergency lights on or off vehicle door open or closed weapon unholstered weapon discharged and so on. This is list is obviously only exemplary and other trigger conditions may be imagined. Window further shows a list of potential responses to take if and when those trigger conditions have been met. For example if a trigger condition is met video audio or other data could be transmitted stored or ignored. If information e.g. sensor data such as video or still images is transmitted the interface may allow a field officer to specify who should be the recipient of that information. Using an interface such as this a field officer can create a complex series of rules that describes how to manage sensor data such as rich media and associated information.

In addition to defining a rule the interface may allow a user to provide a unique name to that rule and thus manage a set of such rules. Window shows a list of rules that might be locally available on the mobile device or system. There are check boxes available for the local user to activate or deactivate those rules. Such rules of the rule list may be provided from a source external to the mobile system device such as by sharing between officers and or provided from central dispatch or central command .

In the example of selection of the third parties to which the automatically generated communication is generated is shown as Dispatch Shift Command Other Officer and All local. The third parties may be selected to form groups which then may be stored for later selection as done with respect to the rule list. The groups may dynamically change and be provided externally e.g. by dispatch . For example on duty officers may constitute a group which changes with each change in on duty shifts. The individual constituents of the on duty officers may be provided to each mobile system device externally or alternatively a communication to on duty officers may be first routed to dispatch which may then forward the communication to the individual constituents of the on duty officers .

In addition groups of third parties to which the communication may be automatically sent may include personnel of neighboring districts or precincts outside the immediate authority of the district precinct of the field officer. Communication to other districts precincts may be triggered by detection of events and or location information. For example a rule may be associated with a high threat level to a field officer such as a rule tracking a number of times a gun has been fired in a certain period of time a rule detecting an officer has been injured e.g. falling down analysis of a video of the officer or a rule detecting the pressing of a panic button or emergency help request button. In determining a high threat level to a field officer dispatch of a neighboring district or precinct and or field officers within a close distance of the neighboring district or precinct may be selected as third party ies to which the automatic communication should be transmitted. As another example location information and or direction of travel information may be used to select other districts or precincts for automatic communications. For example during a pursuit of a suspect a rule may trigger communications to a nearby neighboring district or precinct that may rely on one or more of the following triggers the field officer is within a certain distance of the neighboring district or precinct the field officer is heading in the direction of the neighboring district or precinct the speed of the field officer s vehicle is excessive weapon fired weapon safety released or other sensor data indicating an increase threat level and or pursuit.

In addition groups of third parties that may automatically receive communications may belong to different types of agencies and may receive automatic communications based on rules providing event analysis relevant to that agency. For example when the system is used by a police department detection of a crash e.g. sensing of deceleration and or airbag deployment or injury e.g. sensing of a heart rate of zero may automatically cause transmission of a communication which may be an alert describing the detected event and or sensor data such as images location officer name etc. to emergency medical services dispatch.

Additionally or in the alternative a field officer or a third party e.g. a commander may specify rules and conditions by which he or she can receive rich media and other sensor data. User interface may be used to specify rules for receiving and display of data in the same manner described herein for setting rules for the transmission of information. For example a field officer may choose to receive all incoming messages signals data and media when in a normal patrolling mode but may set up rules to limit the receipt of information when engaged in an emergency activity. For example if the lights or sirens of the field officer are turned on the field officer may limit the incoming information to text and audio only and not accept video. If the field officer s weapon is drawn he or she may refuse to receive any incoming data originating from other field operatives or accept incoming data to be stored locally for later display only. Any of the conditions or triggers discussed in this disclosure e.g. those in block or elsewhere may be used in rules to limit the receipt of incoming information. Furthermore a receiver may choose to receive or refuse to receive incoming information based on the priority level of that transmission. The priority level can be manually set by the originating field officer a person of rank such as a shift commander or squad leader or by a rule within the system.

Alternatively or in addition an indicator responsive to a detected event e.g. a triggered rule associated with the communication may be indicated e.g. displayed by sound alarm or chime vibration etc. . The indicator may simply indicate the receipt of a new communication or may also indicate the event or triggered rule with which the message is associated to assist the receiving field officer in determining whether or not or when to review the communication. For example consider a rule of gun fired to automatically transmit video of the corresponding mobile system device e.g. from a vehicle or portable camera on the field officer who fired the gun assume Officer Chan in this example to other field officers within a two mile radius. In this example receiving field officers may receive a text indicator of From Officer Chan Gun Fired . Selection of the text may allow real time communication of the video from Officer Chan so that responding field officers may immediately determine the threat level to Officer Chan as well as the type of threat to determine how to best respond.

The indicator received may also indicate a priority level of the communication or communication request. The priority level may be displayed e.g. low priority high priority emergency . The priority level may also be used to determine how to route the message. For example messages of low priority may be automatically stored for later retrieval and review. Messages of low priority may generate an indicator e.g. one that is temporarily displayed for two or three seconds or may simply be reviewed upon selection of stored messages for review by the user. Messages of high priority may automatically be accepted by the mobile system device and start communication of various information such as sensor data including video and or still images. Messages of high priority may cause generation of an indicator that requests acceptance of the communication for immediate communications for the user e.g. to immediately start display of sensor data including video and or still images such as in real time with the generation of such sensor data from the transmitting mobile system device . Such acceptance may be performed by selecting the indicator such as by touching it when the interface includes a touch screen or clicking on the indicator by overlaying a cursor on the indicator and pressing a button of a mouse or touch pad . Such acceptance may be performed by voice command or sensing motion of the user. The user or other third parties e.g. commander or dispatch may set rules for the treatment of communications communication requests and or the associated communication indicators as described herein based on the priority of the communication received. E.g. the field officer may set the mobile system device to during the shift of the officer accept communications of priority levels 3 5 for immediate display or other type of communication such as sound limit communications of priority level 2 to request acceptance for immediate communications by selecting the associated indicator and route communications of priority level 1 for local storage for later review. The field officer may set a different type of treatment of communications during a different time. For example the mobile system device may be programmed to receive off shift communications for immediate display or immediate communication with the user for other communication types only when the priority is 4 or 5 to accept messages having communication levels of priority 3 for display or other appropriate communication upon selection of an associated message indicator and to ignore or discard all communication requests of priority 2 or lower.

The indicator may also include images associated with the incoming communication such as briefly showing the images in window . Or the indicator may be a picture in picture type of display to show an image associated with the incoming communication within a portion such as a corner of another window such as in a corner of window . The receiving field officer may select the communication e.g. by tapping the picture within picture display to expand the picture to receive the full video communication and which may also include other sensor data including event descriptions location etc. .

Acceptance and or non acceptance of the incoming communication by one of the mobile systems devices may be used as a rule for determining a transmission of the communication to another one of the mobile systems devices . For example an first mobile system device may in response to triggering a rule or a certain set of rules automatically initiate a communication request to send sensor data such as video with an automatic message e.g. such as a request for backup assistance or otherwise communicate to officers within a first geographical distance e.g. within one mile of the first mobile system device . If there is no officer which is within the first geographical distance or there is no officer within the first geographical distance that accepts the communication request e.g. by selecting the indicator to establish a communications link e.g. to receive sensor data such as video and or images within a certain time period e.g. within 20 to 30 seconds the first mobile system device may recognize the lack of acceptance and initiate a communication request to send the sensor data to officers within a second larger geographical distance e.g. within two miles of the first mobile system device .

In addition a mobile field officer may indicate through the corresponding mobile system device that they are responding to the transmitting officer e.g. they are traveling to the transmitting officer to provide support backup . Such indication of responding to the transmitting officer may be done by selecting by the receiving officer some additional indicator e.g. a Will respond button on the display by tapping clicking etc. and transmitting corresponding information to the transmitting officer via corresponding mobile system devices . Upon receipt of the information indicating a particular officer is responding the transmitting mobile system device may initiate transfer of a new set of information such as video and or still image sensor data for receipt and display on the mobile system device of the responding officer. Rules and or a commander and or dispatch may be used to limit or exclude further receipt of communications and sensor data based upon the indication of the mobile field officer that he she is responding a determined threat level associated with the transmitting officer to which the receiving officer is responding or other analysis of the sensor data of the transmitting officer and or sensor data e.g. video and or still images received by the receiving officer.

In addition or in an alternative embodiment information to be sent to the mobile system device of a field officer receiving a request for a communication may be selected by the receiving officer. For example upon receiving a request for a communication or an initial set of sensor data such as a text message automatically generated by the triggering of a rule rule set or other event detection the receiving field officer may select a message indicator corresponding to the communication request or initial set of sensor data to accept the communication. Accepting the communication in this manner may allow selection by the receiving field officer of certain sensor data e.g. in response to selection of the message indicator the receiving field officer may view a pop up menu list on the interface listing various options for sensor data receipt such as video voice text messages associated with triggered rules e.g. gun drawn etc.

As another example consider a pair of field officers deployed to disable a vehicle pursued by a third field officer five miles ahead of the pursued vehicle. The first field office of the pair of field officers may act as a spotter to try to see the approaching vehicle and provide details such as which lane the car is in the color of the car speed occupants etc. to the second field officer. The spotter may have a pair of night vision binoculars that may comprise a camera or cameras connected to two small video monitors e.g. in place of the eye pieces of the binoculars . In this example the spotter may select one or more of the following images in the binocular video monitor eye pieces a the live video image from the binocular camera b the live video image of his partner of the spotter c the live image from the third field officer pursuing the vehicle and d a recorded video image previously taken identifying details of the car and or occupants of the car e.g. provided by dispatch . Initially the spotter may determine what information is sent to the partner of the spotter whose job it is to disable the vehicle. The spotter may select the video feeds and provide voice description over the communications channel to his partner. The partner of the spotter may act to override the information being received such as by switching modes of his mobile system device to view just the live view of his her camera when the vehicle is near so as not to be distracted. The partner may then act to disable the vehicle with updated information e.g. by shooting a tire of the vehicle or deploying a spike strip on the road at the appropriate time . To assist in the switching of multiple video options during a limited and possibly stressful time period the mobile system devices may be set to allow for different video image display during different modes. For example the modes may be a Off b On c Setup d Prep and e Firing. During setup mode multiple videos may be displayed simultaneously for the spotter and his partner. As the vehicle gets closer the mode may be switched e.g. by the spotter to prep mode. During prep mode the display may be limited to video of the spotter and his partner. As the vehicle gets very close the mode may be switched to firing e.g. by the partner of the spotter . During firing mode each device may only display its own video to minimize distraction. Modes may be changed by many methods such as use of the interface e.g. by voice activated commands and or buttons and or selection of display indicators as discussed elsewhere herein .

Rules set for receiving communications may be different for different time periods. During a first time period e.g. a time period associated with an on duty shift of the field officer communications of a certain priority level e.g. all priorities may be received and immediately communicated to the receiving officer or received with an alert to be selected for immediate communication . During a second time period e.g. a time period associated with an off duty time period of the field officer only communication of a higher priority may be immediately communicated or received with an alert. Other lower priority communications may be stored for later review or may be ignored.

The interface may be available to a shift commander or other authorized user on a computing platform monitor such as a PC monitor touch screen tablet laptop or other computing platform display . The interface performs user authentication and allows an authorized user to log in window . The interface allows the user to view live or recorded rich media and associated information in window from local storage block and or from a remote field officer s sensing device storage system e.g. in real time or by accessing video still images and or other sensor data stored locally in a remote field officer s mobile system device .

Window is an example of how an operator may configure a network of mobile systems device . Window may include information about the shift to which it pertains such as date and time information. It may contain a list of officers on the shift and rules that may be available on their local systems for selection. It may also contain a list of global rules that may be managed centrally. In this instance the interface is showing a particular rule called the Pull over rule which is hosted on the remote system of officer Chan 56812 . The description of the rule is exactly the same as officer Chan would see on her remote system. The shift commander can view this rule or modify it and send it back to officer Chan s remote system.

Additionally interface allows the shift commander or other authorized personnel to create overrides for this rule via window . Specifically the shift commander may create a new rule or modify an existing rule and override the settings the field officer created for that rule. Use of the interface to create or modify a rule may be the same as that described herein for interface .

Furthermore communications may be given a priority level. The priority level may be determined or selected based on one or more of the following factors a the field officer from which the mobile system device is associated e.g. higher ranking officers or those with more dangerous assignments may be given higher priority or priority weighting b the triggering event as detected by the rule e.g. a rule detecting weapon fired may be given a higher priority or weighting than an event detected by the pull over rule and c external override or manual override information e.g. a weapon drawn event detection may have its priority reduced by a commander or other authorized personnel if it is determined that batons are being withdrawn as part of a riot prevention crowd control exercise for example a central station may reducer or eliminate priority to baton withdrawn triggers for field officers within a certain geographical area which may be recognized by sensing unusual sensing data patterns such as unusual numbers of baton withdraw triggers being withdrawn as compared to normal daily routines and investigating the same . An estimated threat level may be determined based on one or more of these factors a c and used to determine the communications priority. A weighting system may be used to provide several weighting values to determine the communication priority to be assigned e.g. an officer assigned to patrol a neighborhood considered dangerous may be given a weighting value of 0.6 where those of neighborhoods considered safe may be given a weighting value of 0.3. A pull over rule may be given a weighting of 2 while a baton drawn may be given a weighting value of 3. Thus a detected pull over event may be given a value of 1.2 0.6 2 for one officer and a 0.6 0.3 2 for another officer a baton drawn by one officer may result in a value of 0.9 0.6 3 for one officer and 1.8 0.6 2 for another officer and these numbers used to determine a communications priority . Thus communication priorities may be dynamically determined in real time in response to event detection by the mobile system device . Commanders may be given higher priority for most or all communications to assure commands are properly received and implemented. Priority of communications of commanders and or mobile field officers may be dynamically determined based on event detection and or a determined threat level of others such as based on event detection of another mobile field officer to which the commander is communicating or based on event another mobile field officer that other officers are within a certain distance. The communications network e.g. FirstNet LTE 4G may allow individual communications to be assigned priority levels and use these priority levels to automatically allocate bandwidth and or quality of service for each communication channel or link. As bandwidth on the communications network e.g. broad band network becomes congested traffic with lower priority may be dropped or given lesser quality of service in favor of traffic with higher priority. An operator may dynamically specify the priority of the data from a specific officer or sensor and thus dynamically adjust priority of communications across the network. For example video data from a public event such as a music concert may be given a low priority e.g. officers assigned to monitor the music concert may be given a low communications priority weighting but a rule may be created whereby if an officer assigned to that concert should unholster his or her weapon indicating a potentially threatening event that video may be dynamically given a higher priority so it will be guaranteed to be transmitted even if the broadband network becomes congested.

The above disclosed subject matter is to be considered illustrative and not restrictive. Many alternatives embodiments are intended to fall within the scope of the invention. For example the above description references remote mobile field officers and discusses sensor data event detection and triggering rules related to field officers such as police department officers. However the invention is not limited to such and can be applied to other first responder environments or private third party environments e.g. shipping oil rig maintenance construction . In addition it should be emphasized that many different types of sensors and sensor data may be used in both the event detection and sending of information. The use of video and or still images has been described with respect to many of the embodiments but the invention has broader applicability. For example use of sensor data to automatically establish voice or text communications with or without images is contemplated. The appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications enhancements and other embodiments which fall within the true spirit and scope. Thus to the maximum extent allowed by law the scope is to be determined by the broadest permissible interpretation of the following claims and their equivalents and shall not be restricted or limited by the foregoing detailed description.

