---

title: Intelligent tutoring system
abstract: An intelligent tutoring system can be implemented using filters, predictive modeling, and a knowledge warehouse, which allows content to be dynamically selected for individualized presentation to a learner. Such an intelligent tutoring system can be implemented using a variety of techniques, including polynomial vector equations in modeling, extensible markup language storage formats for presentation data, and a knowledge warehouse with information stored in data cubes.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08684747&OS=08684747&RS=08684747
owner: Accella Learning, LLC
number: 08684747
owner_city: Louisville
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121214
---
This claims priority from and is a continuation of U.S. nonprovisional patent application Ser. No. 12 328 018 filed on Dec. 4 2008 and having the same title and inventor as listed above. That application itself claimed priority from U.S. provisional application No. 61 012 615 filed on Dec. 10 2007 also having the same title and inventors as listed above. The disclosures of both of those applications are hereby incorporated by reference in their entireties.

Certain aspects of the teachings of this disclosure can be implemented in the field of software aided training.

This document comprises a disclosure of various techniques and tools which can be used for training individuals and storing information related to those individuals educational achievement. As will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art in light of this disclosure the teachings of this disclosure can be utilized in a variety of different implementations. Set forth in this summary are certain features which may be present in implementations of the teachings of this disclosure. Additionally for the sake of clarity this summary includes explicit definitions for terms which should be understood as having particular meanings when used in the claims. Of course it should be understood that the implementations identified herein are intended to provide examples only of aspects of implementations which could be created based on this disclosure and are not intended to indicate limits on potential implementations which are covered by the claims in this document.

When used in the claims based on should be understood to mean that something is determined at least in part by the thing that it is indicated as being based on. When something is completely determined by a thing it will be described as being based EXCLUSIVELY on the thing.

When used in the claims a computer should be understood to refer to a device or group of devices which is capable of performing one or more logical and or physical operations on data to produce a result.

When used in the claims computer executable instructions should be understood to refer to data whether stored as hardware software firmware or some other manner which can be used to specify physical or logical operations to be performed by a computer.

When used in the claims data should be understood to refer to information which is represented in a form which is capable of being processed stored and or transmitted.

When used in the claims data structure should be understood to refer to an organization used for storing data so that the data can be accessed and processed in appropriate ways. The term data structure can also refer to concrete embodiments of the same e.g. both a class and an instance of the class .

When used in the claims local memory should be understood to refer to a device for storing data which is in a location physically proximate i.e. accessible without communicating through a network to the device or devices which retrieve that data. Examples of local memory include random access memory RAM flash drives hard disks and CD ROMS.

When used in the claims metadata refers to data which functions as a description or definition for some other data.

When used in the claims metadata scheme refers to an organization or structure for information in a database which is expressed through metadata though that metadata can also include other information besides the scheme .

When used in the claims module refers to a set of data including computer executable instructions which is used to configure a computer to perform a specific task or function.

When used in the claims reflecting in the context of information reflected in data should be understood to indicate that the information reflected can be retrieved from the data even though the information may not be explicitly specified by the data for example actual numeric data values as well as information about those values determined by the order in which they are stored in a medium would be considered to be reflected in the data .

When used in the claims set of computer executable instructions should be understood to refer to an identifiable group of computer executable instructions. Examples to illustrate the meaning of a set of computer executable instructions include a program and modules within a program.

When used in the claims set of data should be understood to refer to an identified grouping category or class or data. Examples to illustrate the meaning of a set of data include files and instantiated classes.

The following description should not be understood as being limiting on the scope of any claims included in this application or in any application claiming priority from this application. Other potential applications and embodiments of the teachings of this disclosure beyond those explicitly set forth herein are contemplated by the inventors and could be implemented by those of ordinary skill in the art without undue experimentation. Accordingly the drawings and descriptions should be regarded as illustrative in nature and not limiting.

As an illustration of one possible implementation of certain teachings of this disclosure consider the diagram of . That figure depicts a state diagram in which a plurality of levels represent different categories of content e.g. test questions instructional segments etc. which could be presented to a learner using an intelligent tutoring system. As shown in it is possible for a learner to move between levels in both ascending e.g. level 1 to level 2 and descending level 2 to level 1 order depending on inputs provided by the learner. In this way content can be dynamically tailored for particular individuals being trained. For example material presented might be organized into a series of articles and accompanying comprehension questions. A tutoring session could begin with presentation of the most basic articles to the user then as the user indicates comprehension of the material in those articles e.g. by correctly answering the accompanying questions material of increasing complexity could be presented to the user. Similarly if a user indicates that he or she is having difficulty with a particular subject e.g. by incorrectly answering questions related to that subject the user could be presented with material having lesser complexity. In this manner a system can be implemented that ensures that the material presented to a user is appropriately matched to that user s knowledge and skill level and which could also modify the amount and content of material which was presented to the learner e.g. a learner with more advanced knowledge might be presented with less material than a learner who requires more basic instruction to attain mastery of a concept .

Of course it should be understood that the description above is not intended to be an exhaustive description of potential uses for a system which allows user state transitions such as shown in . For example in some cases instead of or in addition to allowing a learner to transition between levels which vary in complexity it might be possible to allow users to transition between levels that vary in other manners such as in terms of presentation modality or learning style. Thus if a learner s input indicates that he or she is a kinesthetic rather than a visual learner the content presented to that learner might be varied so as to be more appropriate to that individual s learning style. Similarly instead of or in addition to receiving user inputs in the form of answers to questions a system which allows user state transitions such as described in the context of could receive input in the form of measurements of how long a user spends on a particular section of content or whether a user interacts with any particular aspect of a section of content. In some instances specialized hardware might be utilized to facilitate this measurement. For example a camera might track eye movement and or expression to determine an individual s focus and comprehension level vis vis various parts of presented content.

As yet another variation on the concept of user state transitions it is also possible that a variety of techniques for utilizing user inputs could be implemented in different situations. For example while depicts transitions based on actual inputs provided by the user other approaches to transitions such as transitions based on predictive modeling are also possible. As an example of the use of predictive modeling for state transitions consider the extremely simplified scenario in which a learner s expertise is modeled with the formula where c is the learner s expertise vis the weighted velocity of learner expertise in score change per hour k is the learner s initial level of expertise and t is the time in hours. In such a case the learner s expertise hence the appropriate material to present to the learner can be predicted as a linear function increasing with time. By using this model the appropriate information can be presented to the learner despite the possibility of inaccurate or missing user input data. Of course the simplified formula set forth above is not intended to imply that modeling for state transitions is limited to linear expertise increase situations. As an alternative nonlinear formulae such as 0.1 1.0143 0.657141.0114 the more general form or any other type of formula e.g. a polynomial vector student model could also be used.

As yet a further refinement in some cases combinations of transitions based on learner input and predictive modeling could also be used. For example it is possible that transitions between states could be controlled by a model and that user input is also gathered and used as feedback for improvements and modifications to that model. As a demonstration of one potential approach to this technique consider the diagram of . In the output of a learner model is sent to other components in an intelligent tutoring system which can be used to control transition between states and information presented to the learner. The output of the learner model is also sent to a difference detector which can compare the output of the learner model with inputs from the learner e.g. competence data . The output of the difference detector can then be passed to a filter which can be implemented as a software module configured to determine how the difference between predicted and real results should be used to modify the underlying learner model . Accordingly in some implementations a learner model could be dynamically refined based on user input data.

Various techniques can be used for refining the learner model in closed loop systems such as shown in . For example it is possible that techniques such as minimizing either the weighted or unweighted measure of the distance between predicted and measured values could be implemented using the following formula 

Of course it should be understood that in addition to variations between transitioning techniques different implementations of the teachings of this disclosure might also include different approaches to integrating the state transition concept. For example in some cases an implementation might include a single scale e.g. complexity of material or progression through cumulative material to be presented to a user. However in other situations there might be multiple different areas of knowledge or aspects of content contained in a set of material to be presented to a learner and each of those areas of knowledge might have different transition characteristics or be represented by a different state machine in the system which controls presentation. As a concrete example of this consider a situation where a learner is to be instructed in the medical management of radiation incidents. As shown in there might be a variety of areas of learning competencies such as vocabulary related to the psychology of risk and risk perception regulations regarding radiation exposure limits steps for decontaminating a victim etc which could be considered relevant to the overall subject matter of the material presented to the learner. In a situation where individual competencies are uniquely modeled the learner might be presented with information in one competency e.g. the physics of radioactivity which are appropriate for a high level of skill while being presented with more basic information in one or more other competencies e.g. the biological effects of radiation . In this way fine grained optimization of information presented to a learner can be achieved and the overall effectiveness and efficiency of the learning process can be increased.

As a concrete example of a system which could allow for the dynamic selection of material presented to a learner consider the diagram of . depicts a system which could be used to control the operation of a learning management system LMS . In the system of the expert model portion of the intelligent tutoring system ITS is a data component which is instantiated with item and sequence rankings based on expert behavior. The pedagogy model is instantiated with sequence and item selections i.e. groupings and sequences appropriate for various skill levels in a particular competency. The domain knowledge comprises information related to the various competencies that might be presented to the learner such as an overall question bank multimedia content and instructional articles. Those components would then interact with the learner model to control the information presented to the learner. The expert model would provide potential groupings and sequences for the information that could be presented to the learner. The pedagogy model would indicate which sequences and selections should be made based on the specific skill level of the learner that skill level being derived from the learner model . Then the actual information would be provided from the domain knowledge . The specific content elements which make up the domain knowledge could be expressed in an extensible markup language XML based format and use metadata tags to indicate the attributes of any of the specific elements e.g. competency area difficulty level of questions learning system of material or other attributes . These tags might be used either alone or in combination with information provided from the pedagogy model to determine what information to provide to a learner in light of the characteristics of the learner e.g. skill level at various competencies as reflected in the learner model .

Turning now to that figure depicts how a knowledge warehouse can be implemented as an extension to an intelligent tutoring system such as depicted in . As shown in an intelligent tutoring system can utilize a query engine to obtain information for a learner model . The query engine can be implemented as a software process configured to retrieve data from a competency database for a student. The information in the competency database can be organized in a variety of manners. For example the information in the competency database can be represented in the form of on line analytical processing OLAP cubes indexed by competency metadata. Specific illustrations of potential organizations for information in the competency database are given in and . shows a high level view of a potential set of associations between different types of information relevant to a learner. For example as shown in a record for a learner could be uniquely determined by a learner name or ID . Then the record for that learner could include information regarding the learner s demographics learning style knowledge skills and test scores . shows a more detailed example of potential associations between types of data e.g. those depicted in within a competency database . show an alternative structure which could be used in the organization of data in a competency database . Referring specifically to it should be understood that though those figures depict organization in knowledge domains related to radiation incidents it is not required that a competency database be devoted to information regarding radiation incidents or that it be devoted to a particular knowledge domain at all. For example as shown in radiation exposure management could be only one entry in a general subject such as emergency medicine which itself could be a nested entry in the general knowledge structure. While it is possible that some competency databases might be organized for specific domains in other implementations a competency database might be structured according to a general purpose organizational scheme. In such a case different curricula might use techniques such as assigning different weights to different areas of the competency database when assigning values to particular types of knowledge thereby allowing the same database to be used as a general purpose tool in a variety of domains rather than simply in domains related to radiation incidents as shown in 

Returning to the discussion of another aspect of certain knowledge databases which could be implemented by those of ordinary skill in the art in light of this disclosure is the ability to update information in the competency database based on input received from a learner. Such updates might take place on a variety of schedules for example inputs received from a user might be propagated back to the competency database in real time might only be propagated back based on the occurrence of some event e.g. completion of a module session or curriculum or using some combined approach. The actual back propagation might be performed for example by using metadata for the competency database to define processing operations which would be performed on raw data before that data could be incorporated. Examples of such processing operations include cleaning raw data e.g. applying rules for allowable values such as that age is a numerical value between 1 and 99 that a test score must be between 0 and 100 etc as well as transforming raw data by for example performing sorting lookup and calculations required to ensure quality accuracy and compatibility of data accumulated from a variety of sources e.g. transforming date of birth from MM DD YYYY format to DD MM YYYY format converting a test result from a percentage to a z score etc . Also as shown in some implementations might include a visualizer which could be used to provide a graphic interface to information maintained in the knowledge warehouse for example by providing an aggregate view of the contents of the competency database . Of course it should be understood that the representation provided in along with the discussion above is not intended to imply limitations on the potential implementations of this disclosure or any claims included in this application or any applications which claim priority from this application. As an example of a further variation consider the architecture shown in which provides an alternative view of a knowledge warehouse including OLAP cubes storing information about particular students. Accordingly the discussion of the knowledge warehouse set forth herein should be understood to be illustrative only and not limiting.

Using approaches such as those set forth above it is possible to provide a general purpose intelligent tutoring system add on to a learning management system. As shown in various components can be configured in a pluggable manner e.g. a knowledge warehouse can interact with an intelligent tutoring system over a network an intelligent tutoring system can interact with an appropriate learning management system through an application programming interface . This could allow for creation of a server based intelligent tutoring system which allows dynamic sequencing of content for a learning management system without requiring that a model for a learner be constructed de novo for a particular LMS or that data for that learner be collected independently for each individual curriculum. Rather the learner model could be read into the intelligent tutoring system in real time from a knowledge warehouse while data could be stored in a general purpose data organization in the content database allowing a variety of different LMSes and or curricula to be deployed without requiring retooling or data recreation. Of course it is also possible that a toolset could be implemented to allow integration between a learning management system and the various components which might be used in conjunction with such a system. For example standards could be created for metadata described previously to facilitate integration between different aspects of the system. Similarly an implementation of certain aspects of the technology described herein might include published standard learner model vectors and access mechanisms for various components of the system.

While the above discussion focused on how the disclosure of this application could be implemented in the context of an intelligent tutoring system it should be understood that the techniques described herein are not limited to being so implemented. As certain implementations can be designed to be domain independent extensible standards based scalable and modular those implementations could be applied in a broad variety of settings beyond intelligent tutoring. For example infrastructure and tools such as described herein can be applied to traditional didactic teaching job placement career planning and practice based experience tracking. Accordingly the protection provided to the inventors by this document should not be limited to the material explicitly disclosed. Instead such protection should be understood to be defined by the claims when the terms in those claims which are explicitly defined in the Summary section under the Explicit Definition heading are given their explicit definitions and when all other terms are given their broadest reasonable interpretation as shown by a general purpose dictionary. To the extent that the interpretation which would be given to the claims based on the above disclosure is in any way narrower than the interpretation which would be given based on the explicit definitions under the Explicit Definition heading in the Summary section and the broadest reasonable interpretation as provided by a general purpose dictionary the interpretation provided by the explicit definitions under the Explicit Definitions heading in the Summary section and broadest reasonable interpretation as provided by a general purpose dictionary shall control and the inconsistent usage of terms in the specification shall have no effect.

