---

title: Prepopulating application forms using real-time video analysis of identified objects
abstract: Embodiments of the invention are directed to methods and apparatuses for populating documents based on identification of objects in an augmented reality environment. The method includes capturing a video stream using a mobile computing device; determining, using a computing device processor, the object; identifying a document associated with the object; populating at least a portion of the document; and submitting the document. The method may also include presenting indicators associated with the user, the identified document, or a financial transaction associated with the document. The method may also include providing recommendations or suggestions to the user related to alternative offers associated with the document. Systems and computer program products for populating forms using video analysis of identified objects are also provided.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09105011&OS=09105011&RS=09105011
owner: Bank of America Corporation
number: 09105011
owner_city: Charlotte
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120217
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 450 213 filed Mar. 8 2011 entitled Real Time Video Image Analysis Applications for Commerce Activity the entirety of which is incorporated herein by reference.

Modern handheld mobile devices such as smart phones and the like combine multiple technologies to provide the user with a vast array of capabilities. For example many smart phones are equipped with significant processing power sophisticated multi tasking operating systems and high bandwidth Internet connection capabilities. Moreover such devices often have additional features that are becoming increasingly more common as standardized features. Such features include but are not limited to location determining devices such as Global Positioning System GPS devices sensor devices such as accelerometers and touch pads and high resolution video cameras.

As the hardware capabilities of such mobile devices have increased so to have the applications i.e. software that rely on the hardware advances. One such example of innovative software is a category known as augmented reality AR or more generally referred to as mediated reality. One such example of an AR presentation application platform is Layar available from Layar Amsterdam the Netherlands.

The Layar platform technology analyzes real time video data location data compass direction data and the like in combination with information related to the objects locations or the like in the video stream to create browse able hot spots or tags that are superimposed on the mobile device display resulting in an experience described as reality browsing. 

In many circumstances it may be useful to be able to identify documents based on real time capture of images. Presently individuals are limited in their ability to identify documents associated with objects in the environment. Individuals must search for documents that may or may not be related to the various objects displays and images that individuals encounter in the environment. Some documents may not be immediately available to the user. In fact users may not even know where to look for documents or that a document even exists relating to something in the environment. For example a person may not know that a product comes with a warranty card that can be completed to get an extended warranty on the product. This difficulty in identifying documents is inconvenient time consuming and does not assist the individual.

Further still the individual must then go through the tedious process of completing forms and documents. Often documents require repetitive input of information such as addresses names and phone numbers. This is also time consuming. In some cases the documents require obscure information that the individual does not have convenient access to. For example a document may request information on the individual s previous year tax return. While the individual may be able to locate that information the inconvenience of having to search for that information is an additional burden on individuals.

Individuals may desire to quickly and easily complete electronic versions of documents and submit them without risking losing paper documents.

Therefore a need exists to implement real time video analysis i.e. AR or the like to assist the user of mobile devices with identifying augmenting and completing documents.

The following presents a simplified summary of one or more embodiments of the present invention in order to provide a basic understanding of such embodiments. This summary is not an extensive overview of all contemplated embodiments and is intended to neither identify key or critical elements of all embodiments nor delineate the scope of any or all embodiments. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts of one or more embodiments in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

Methods apparatus systems and computer program products are described herein that provide for using real time video analysis such as AR or the like to assist the user of mobile devices with populating documents based on identification of objects. Through the use of real time image object recognition objects can be determined in a real time video stream and can be matched to documents to assist the user with identifying and populating the document. In specific embodiments reference images are used to identify objects based on comparison of diagnostic markers and then the associated documents are identified based on information available in a database. In another embodiment disclosed here the method then populates at least a portion of the document with user specific information document specific information or financial transaction specific information. These embodiments are exemplary.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends the one or more embodiments comprise the features hereinafter fully described and particularly pointed out in the claims. The following description and the annexed drawings set forth in detail certain illustrative features of the one or more embodiments. These features are indicative however of but a few of the various ways in which the principles of various embodiments may be employed and this description is intended to include all such embodiments and their equivalents.

Some embodiments of the present invention provide a computer implemented method wherein a mobile device is used to capture a real time video stream. A processor analyzes the real time video stream to determine which objects present in the video stream are associated with documents. The processor then identifies the document based on in some cases markers associated with the object. In an embodiment the processor compares the markers to reference markers available in databases. In some embodiments the processor populates at least a portion of the document with user specific data. In an embodiment the mobile device also presents one or more indicators associated with the user or the identified document in the real time video stream. In still further embodiments augmenting the document with user data allows the user to complete a financial transaction such as a balance transfer. In some embodiments the financial transaction is a purchase sale or transfer of funds e.g. a gift or charitable donation etc. . In some embodiments information is presented in accordance with the transaction such as the remaining balance in the account. Many types of indicators providing both information and potential actions can be presented in the user in accordance with some embodiments of the invention.

Consistent with certain embodiments of the invention identifying a document from the image captured in the real time video stream involves analyzing reference images that are available to the user and then comparing identifiable characteristics from the captured images with the reference images. The reference images may be publicly available information may be available from social networking sites or may be provided by businesses government non profits or the financial institution.

Embodiments of the invention also provide an apparatus where the apparatus has a device for capturing a real time video stream a computing platform having a processor a memory in communication with the processor and logic stored in the memory executable by the processor and configured to determine which images from the real time video stream are associated with a document. The logic may also comprise identification logic stored in the memory executable by the processor and configured to identify objects in the video stream. The apparatus further comprises image comparison logic stored in the memory executable by the processor and configured to identify a document based on comparison of the object to a reference image and document population logic stored in the memory executable by the processor and configured to populate the document.

In some embodiments the apparatus also comprises a display for presenting the real time video stream with one or more indicators each indicator being associated with the user the document or the financial transaction. In further embodiments the apparatus includes a position system device wherein the document is identified at least in part on a location where the object is captured determined by the positioning system device. The apparatus may include input devices output devices and networking devices for receiving reference images. The apparatus may also include a microphone for receiving an audio recording and be configured to identify the document at least in part from the audio recording.

Embodiments of the invention also provide a computer program product comprising a non transitory computer readable medium having computer executable code stored thereon. In one embodiment the computer executable code includes a first code portion configured to capture via a mobile device a real time video stream a second code portion configured to analyze the real time video stream to determine objects a third code portion configured to identify a document associated with the object in the real time video stream a fourth code portion configured to populate at least a portion of the document with user information and a fifth code portion configured to present information related to the document. In some embodiments the computer program product also includes an additional code portion configured to provide offers associated with the document.

The features functions and advantages that have been discussed may be achieved independently in various embodiments of the present invention or may be combined with yet other embodiments further details of which can be seen with reference to the following description and drawings

Embodiments of the present invention will now be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which some but not all embodiments of the invention are shown. Indeed the invention may be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will satisfy applicable legal requirements. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of one or more embodiments. It may be evident however that such embodiment s may be practiced without these specific details. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout.

Various embodiments or features will be presented in terms of systems that may include a number of devices components modules and the like. It is to be understood and appreciated that the various systems may include additional devices components modules etc. and or may not include all of the devices components modules etc. discussed in connection with the figures. A combination of these approaches may also be used.

The steps and or actions of a method or algorithm described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers a hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium may be coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. Further in some embodiments the processor and the storage medium may reside in an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC . In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a computing device. Additionally in some embodiments the events and or actions of a method or algorithm may reside as one or any combination or set of codes and or instructions on a machine readable medium and or computer readable medium which may be incorporated into a computer program product.

In one or more embodiments the functions described may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions may be stored or transmitted as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium. Computer readable media includes both computer storage media and communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A storage medium may be any available media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Also any connection may be termed a computer readable medium. For example if software is transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of medium. Disk and disc as used herein include compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs usually reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

Thus methods systems computer programs and the like are herein disclosed that provide for using real time video analysis such as AR to augment documents based on identification of objects in the augmented reality environment.

The methods systems computers programs and the like disclosed herein use real time vision object recognition to identify objects such as signs text advertisements receipts warranty cards in the real time video stream and identify documents associated with the objects. Once the object is determined the processor identifies the document and in some cases populates at least a portion of the document. In specific embodiments images stored in a database will be used to identify diagnostic markers of objects in the real time video stream. In other embodiments indicators relating to the user the document or the financial transaction associated with the document will be presented to the user in the real time video stream. The indicators may merely provide information to the user or may allow the user to provide input in how to complete the document.

While embodiments discussed herein are generally described with respect to real time video streams or real time video it will be appreciated that the video stream may be captured and stored for later viewing and analysis. Indeed in some embodiments video is recorded and stored on a mobile device and portions or the entirety of the video may be analyzed at a later time. The later analysis may be conducted on the mobile device or loaded onto a different device for analysis. The portions of the video that may be stored and analyzed may range from a single frame of video e.g. a screenshot to the entirety of the video. Additionally rather than video the user may opt to take a still picture of the environment to be analyzed immediately or at a later time. Embodiments in which real time video recorded video or still pictures are analyzed are contemplated herein.

In block the computer implemented method captures via a mobile device an object associated with a document. In an embodiment the mobile device captures the object in a real time video stream. For example the user may activate a video camera on a mobile device and pan the video camera over an environment comprising at least one object. In another embodiment the computer implemented method captures the object by receiving a file comprising a video stream. It should be understood that the mobile device may capture the object in a variety of ways such as via still pictures through viewing of a video clip on the internet or other means and that use of a video camera is only intended to describe an exemplary embodiment.

In an embodiment the object is associated with a document. In one embodiment the object is an advertisement commercial or offer. For example the object may be a credit card commercial associated with an application for the credit card. In another embodiment the object is a product of a financial transaction. For example the object may be a receipt. The mobile device may capture the receipt and associate it with a reimbursement request by the user or identify a warranty card associated with the product identified in the receipt. Still further the receipt may be associated with a sweepstakes or contest which is then entered based on submission of a form with information derived from the receipt e.g. proof of purchase date of purchase etc. . In a further embodiment the object is associated with a personal document of the user. For example the user may capture an image of a plane ticket in a real time video stream. The processor identifies the flight number on the plane ticket associates the flight number with an itinerary for the user and populates the itinerary with the gate number status or other information related to the flight. In a further embodiment the processor retrieves up to date information regarding the flight and updates the itinerary as needed.

In some embodiments the object is associated with an organization such as a business or non profit. For example the object may be the organization s logo color scheme icon trademark name etc. When the object is determined a document may be identified that is associated with the organization. For example a job listing review form feedback form or other document that can be completed with at least a portion of the user s information may be identified.

In an embodiment the object is a document that contains information. The mobile device captures the document the information in the document is extracted and the data is transferred to a second document that is associated with the object. For example a user may capture a W2 tax form provided by the user s employer in a real time video. The method determines that the object the W2 is associated with the user s 1040 federal income tax form extracts the information stored in the W2 and automatically populates the 1040 with the data extracted from the W2. Often personal documents of the user such as driver s license passport social security card business card etc. will contain information that is used to complete other forms. This information can be extracted stored and used in other documents through the computer implemented method.

In a still further embodiment the object is an application document or image displayed on the screen of another mobile device. The mobile device captures an image of the screen determines an object on the screen and identifies a document associated with the object. For example a user may capture a real time video of an application operating on another individual s mobile device. The processor determines the object i.e. the application and identifies an order form associated with the application. The processor may also populate at least a portion of the order form for the user and in some cases submit the order form.

In a still further embodiment the object is text that is captured in the real time video. For example the user may capture the text in a real time video. The document associated with the text may be a translation of the text such as a translation from a foreign language to a language that the user is able to read. Still further the document may be a definition of a word in the text such as a word selected by the user through interaction with an indicator. In a further embodiment the text is a description of the object identified by the text. For example the method may capture the name of a book in the real time video screen and direct the user to an online review site for the book.

In some embodiments the object is associated with the user s social networking profile. For example the user may capture an object in a real time video stream and populate the user s social networking profile based on the object. In one example the user captures objects that the user likes or is interested in order to update the user s social networking profile. The user may capture a movie poster in a video stream and update the user s social networking profile with the information that user likes the movie. In an embodiment the method updates the user s current activity in the user s social networking profile based on an object that is captured in the video stream. In the previous movie poster example the method may update the user s profile to indicate that the user is currently going to the movie.

In block the computer implemented method determines the object. In some embodiments the computer implemented method determines the object based on comparison of an image of the object to a reference image. In some embodiments objects are determined based on diagnostic markers associated with the object. In an embodiment the computer implemented method analyzes the real time video stream to identify objects and then compares the identified object to reference images stored in a database. The database may be integral with the mobile device or remotely accessible to the mobile device such as over a network. The processor may also analyze the real time video stream to identify the location of the video the time of the video or other distinguishing characteristics of the real time video stream. These distinguishing characteristics may be used to assist the computer implemented method in identifying the object or objects in the real time video stream.

Furthermore in some instances an object may include one or more markers identified by an object recognition application that leads the object recognition application to associate an object with more than one document in the data storage. Markers are diagnostic characteristics of objects that can be used to identify the object. In such instances the user may be presented with multiple candidate documents and may opt to choose the appropriate identification or input a different identification. The multiple candidates may be presented to the user by any means. For instance in one embodiment the candidates are presented to the user as a list wherein the strongest candidate document is listed first based on reliability of the association. Upon input by the user identifying the object the object recognition application may learn from the input and store additional markers in order to avoid multiple identification candidates for the same object in future identifications.

In block the computer implemented method identifies a document associated with the object. In an embodiment the database storing the reference images also includes associated documents. For example when the computer implemented method identifies a match for the image of the object captured in the real time video stream the computer implemented method receives information on the associated document. In an embodiment the method receives a link to an online document such as a form available on a webpage. In another embodiment the method receives a file comprising the document such as a scanned document or a fillable document. In some embodiments the method receives an image of a document and creates the document for use by the user. For example a non fillable document may be received by the method as an electronic image. The method may have the functionality to create a document based off of the image such that fillable fields are provided to the user. As will be discussed in some embodiments these fields are automatically populated with the user s information by the method.

In a still further embodiment the method populates a document without completing a form. For example a user may identify a document that provides entry into a contest. Rather than completing a form however the user may be able to submit the document by providing the information to the contest organizer. The method may identify the information that must be provided to the contest organizer and provide some or all of the information to the contest organizer in an acceptable manner to the organizer such as via email file transfer protocol over the web via text message etc. In this manner documents are deconstructed into information that is provided on the document and then that information is manipulated by the method e.g. identified provided submitted etc. to assist the user in identifying augmenting and submitting forms and documents.

In block the computer implemented method populates at least a portion of the document with information. In an embodiment the information is user information such as the user s demographic professional financial or personal information. The information may be provided by the user provided by the financial institution or available publicly. For example the user may update a data storage on the mobile device with the user s contact information and personal information e.g. driver s license number social security number height weight age birthdate family information etc. . In some embodiments the user s financial accounts can be provided in documents for example in purchase orders or the like. In another embodiment the method populates the document with current information such as the date time or location. It should be understood that any type of information may be populated into a document based on the requirements of the document and the information available to the computer implemented method. Further the computer implemented method is able to gather information in a variety of ways such as by receiving the information from the user from the financial institution or from the mobile device e.g. clocks and positioning system devices . Thus the computer implemented method is flexible in expanding the types of documents that can be augmented with user information.

In an embodiment the user information is stored for future use as the user information is identified. In some embodiments the user information is stored in a data storage on the mobile device but in other embodiments the user information is stored remotely from the mobile device. The user information may be encrypted for security purposes. In still further embodiments the user information is identified from a source other than the user but then the user is prompted to confirm the information. For example the computer implemented method may determine the user s address from publicly available records but confirm the address with the user before entering the address in a document.

In block the computer implemented method provides offers to the user. In an embodiment the offer is provided based in part on the document. The offer may be for competitive products to the product related to the document such as a competitive credit card application. In a still further embodiment the offer provided to the user may be one that the system determined to be likely used by the user. This is based on the transactional data biographical data social network data publicly available information and the like of the user. In one embodiment the computer implemented method provides an offer associated with the document in combination with the time or location. For example if the user is updating a personal itinerary with a flight number captured from a plane ticket the method may provide an offer to an airport coffee shop in the morning and a hotel local to the airport in the evening. In one embodiment of the invention the offer is an advertisement. For example the offer may be an advertisement for a product or service in a business related to the document. In other embodiments the offer may include a coupon a solicitation or a request for volunteer service etc. The offer may be customized for the user with data from the user s financial accounts. The offer may be in visual e.g. a written advertisement or a picture etc. or audible e.g. a recording a jingle etc. format.

In block the computer implemented method presents an indicator to the user. The indicator may relate to the user to the document or to a financial transaction completed in association with the document. In some embodiments the indicator provides the information that will be populated in the document. For example the document may be displayed in a screen and the indicator displays the user s information that will be populated in the document. In another embodiment the indicator may be a prompt for the user to interact with information that will be used to populate. For example the mobile device may have two phone numbers for the user and allow the user to select from between the phone numbers by tapping on the screen. In another embodiment the indicator relates to the document. For example the indicator may provide a deadline for the submission of the document. The indicator may also be the address to which the document must be sent information on related documents that have been completed previously e.g. a previous tax form submitted by the user etc. or the result of submission of the document e.g. the length of the warranty etc. . In a still further embodiment the indicator relates to a financial transaction that will be completed by submission of the document. For example a document may be a transfer request and the indicator may display the balance in the transferring account and or the balance in the receiving account after the transfer is completed. In another example the indicator may convert the transaction from one currency to another currency so that the user may better understand the terms of the transaction.

In some embodiments the user provides input in response to the indicator. As discussed the user may provide input to the method in a variety of manners. For example the user may select an indicator using a touch sensitive display. Optionally the user may use a keyboard or other input device to provide input. In some embodiments the method is capable of receiving voice commands when the user speaks into a receiver on the mobile device. It should be understood that generic commands such as cancel stop or submit are also possible.

In block the computer implemented method submits the document. In an embodiment the computer implemented method submits the document according to the user input. The method may approve a purchase of a product or approve the transfer of funds as part of a gift or charitable donation through a submission of a document. In some embodiments the method submits the document to the financial institution which thereafter completes the transaction.

It should be understood that every step does not need to occur in the order described herein or even need to occur at all. Different steps in the computer implemented method can be skipped or moved around and still accomplish the goal of populating a document based on identification of objects in a real time video stream. The steps disclosed herein are not limiting to the exact order discussed.

The mobile device may generally include a processor communicably coupled to such devices as a memory user output devices user input devices a network interface a power source a clock or other timer an image capture device e.g. a camera a positioning system device e.g. a Global Positioning System or GPS device one or more integrated circuits etc.

In some embodiments the mobile device and or the server access one or more databases or data stores not shown in to search for and or retrieve information related to the object and or marker. In some embodiments the mobile device and or the server access one or more data stores local to the mobile device and or server and in other embodiments the mobile device and or server access data stores remote to the mobile device and or server. In some embodiments the mobile device and or server access both a memory and or data store local to the mobile device and or server as well as a data store remote from the mobile device and or server.

The processor and other processors described herein may generally include circuitry for implementing communication and or logic functions of the mobile device . For example the processor may include a digital signal processor device a microprocessor device and various analog to digital converters digital to analog converters and or other support circuits. Control and signal processing functions of the mobile device may be allocated between these devices according to their respective capabilities. The processor thus may also include the functionality to encode and interleave messages and data prior to modulation and transmission. The processor may additionally include an internal data modem. Further the processor may include functionality to operate one or more software programs or applications which may be stored in the memory . For example the processor may be capable of operating a connectivity program such as a web browser application . The web browser application may then allow the mobile device to transmit and receive web content such as for example location based content and or other web page content according to a Wireless Application Protocol WAP Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP and or the like.

The processor may also be capable of operating applications such as an AR presentation application . The AR presentation application may be downloaded from a server and stored in the memory of the mobile device . Alternatively the AR presentation application may be pre installed and stored in a memory in the integrated circuit or operated directly from a website operably linked to the mobile device through the network interface . In embodiments where the AR presentation application is pre installed or run from a website the user may not need to download the AR presentation application from a server.

The memory may also include an object recognition application configured to identify objects in still shots or video. In an embodiment the object recognition application identifies diagnostic features of documents or objects in the still shot or video and then compares the diagnostic features to a database of reference images using algorithms. The object recognition application may be stored on the mobile device or may communicate with a remote server via an object recognition interface in association with the network interface . The object recognition application may be downloaded from a server and stored in the memory of the mobile device . Alternatively the object recognition application may be pre installed and stored in a memory in an integrated circuit. In such an embodiment the user may not need to download the object recognition application from a server.

The user may opt to execute the object recognition application or the AR presentation application at any desired moment and begin video capture and analysis. However in some embodiments the object recognition application and or AR presentation application includes an always on feature in which the mobile device is continuously capturing video and analyzing the objects within the video stream. In such embodiments the AR presentation application may be configured to alert the user that a particular object has been identified. The user may set any number of user preferences to tailor the mobile device to their needs. For instance the user may opt to only be alerted if a specific object is identified. Additionally it will be appreciated that the always on feature in which video is continuously captured may consume the mobile device power source more quickly. Thus in some embodiments the always on feature may disengage if a determined event occurs such as low power source low levels of light for an extended period of time e.g. such as if the mobile device is in a user s pocket obstructing a clear view of the environment from the mobile device if the mobile device remains stationary thus receiving the same video stream for an extended period of time the user sets a certain time of day to disengage etc. Conversely if the always on feature is disengaged due to the occurrence of such an event the user may opt for the always on feature to re engage after the duration of the disengaging event e.g. power source is re charged light levels are increased etc. .

In some embodiments the processor may also be capable of operating one or more applications such as one or more applications functioning as an artificial intelligence AI engine. The processor may recognize objects that it has identified in prior uses by way of the AI engine. In this way the processor may recognize specific objects and or classes of objects and store information related to the recognized objects in one or more memories and or databases discussed herein. Once the AI engine has thereby learned of an object and or class of objects the AI engine may run concurrently with and or collaborate with other modules or applications described herein to perform the various steps of the methods discussed. For example in some embodiments the AI engine recognizes an object that has been recognized before and stored by the AI engine. The AI engine may then communicate to another application or module of the mobile device and or server an indication that the object may be the same object previously recognized. In this regard the AI engine may provide a baseline or starting point from which to determine the nature of the object. In other embodiments the AI engine s recognition of an object is accepted as the final recognition of the object.

In another embodiment the AI engine also assists in populating the document. In an embodiment the AI engine evaluates the document and determines the data to use in populating the document. For example the AI engine may categorize information in libraries such as a work information library compared to a personal information library and populate forms with information from the appropriate library. For example a business credit card application may be completed with the user s work email work phone number and work address whereas a personal credit card application may be completed with the user s personal email home phone number and home address from the libraries. The AI engine may identify the library to use from context associated with the document such as the name of the credit card or from information available in the database. In an embodiment the AI engine may prompt the user such as through use of an indicator to select which library to use from a plurality of libraries although in another embodiment the AI engine determines the library without input from the user. In a further embodiment the user is able to alter the library by interacting with the mobile device if the user desires to use a different library. For example a mobile device may be used by two individuals. The AI engine may construct a library for both individuals and allow the user to select which of the libraries to use.

The integrated circuit may include the necessary circuitry to provide the object recognition and or AR functionality to the mobile device . Generally the integrated circuit will include data storage which may include data associated with the objects within a video stream that the object recognition application and or AR presentation application identifies as having certain marker s discussed in relation to . The integrated circuit and or data storage may be an integrated circuit a microprocessor a system on a chip a microcontroller or the like. As discussed above in one embodiment the integrated circuit may provide the functionality to the mobile device .

Of note while illustrates the integrated circuit as a separate and distinct element within the mobile device it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that the object recognition functionality of the integrated circuit may be incorporated within other elements in the mobile device . For instance the functionality of the integrated circuit may be incorporated within the mobile device memory and or the processor . In a particular embodiment the functionality of the integrated circuit is incorporated in an element within the mobile device that provides object recognition capabilities to the mobile device . Moreover the functionality may be part of the firmware of the mobile device . Still further the integrated circuit functionality may be included in a removable storage device such as an SD card or the like.

The processor may be configured to use the network interface to communicate with one or more other devices on a network. In this regard the network interface may include an antenna operatively coupled to a transmitter and a receiver together a transceiver . The processor may be configured to provide signals to and receive signals from the transmitter and receiver respectively. The signals may include signaling information in accordance with the air interface standard of the applicable cellular system of the wireless telephone network that may be part of the network. In this regard the mobile device may be configured to operate with one or more air interface standards communication protocols modulation types and access types. By way of illustration the mobile device may be configured to operate in accordance with any of a number of first second third and or fourth generation communication protocols and or the like. For example the mobile device may be configured to operate in accordance with second generation 2G wireless communication protocols IS 136 time division multiple access TDMA GSM global system for mobile communication and or IS 95 code division multiple access CDMA or with third generation 3G wireless communication protocols such as Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS CDMA2000 wideband CDMA WCDMA and or time division synchronous CDMA TD SCDMA with fourth generation 4G wireless communication protocols and or the like. The mobile device may also be configured to operate in accordance with non cellular communication mechanisms such as via a wireless local area network WLAN or other communication data networks.

The network interface may also include an object recognition interface in order to allow a user to execute some or all of the above described processes with respect to the object recognition application and or the integrated circuit . The object recognition interface may have access to the hardware e.g. the transceiver and software previously described with respect to the network interface . Furthermore the object recognition interface may have the ability to connect to and communicate with an external object oriented data storage on a separate system within the network as means of recognizing the object s in the video stream.

As described above the mobile device may have a user interface that includes user output devices and or user input devices . The user output devices may include a display e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD or the like and a speaker or other audio device which are operatively coupled to the processor . The user input devices which may allow the mobile device to receive data from a user may include any of a number of devices allowing the mobile device to receive data from a user such as a keypad keyboard touch screen touchpad microphone mouse joystick stylus other pointer device button soft key and or other input device s .

The mobile device may further include a power source . Generally the power source is a device that supplies electrical energy to an electrical load. In one embodiment power source may convert a form of energy such as solar energy chemical energy mechanical energy etc. to electrical energy. Generally the power source in the mobile device may be a battery such as a lithium battery a nickel metal hydride battery or the like that is used for powering various circuits e.g. the transceiver circuit and other devices that are used to operate the mobile device . Alternatively the power source may be a power adapter that can connect a power supply from a power outlet to the mobile device . In such embodiments a power adapter may be classified as a power source in the mobile device.

The mobile device may also include a memory operatively coupled to the processor . As used herein memory may include any computer readable medium configured to store data code or other information. The memory may include volatile memory such as volatile Random Access Memory RAM including a cache area for the temporary storage of data. The memory may also include non volatile memory which can be embedded and or may be removable. The non volatile memory may additionally or alternatively include an electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM flash memory or the like.

The memory may store any of a number of applications or programs which comprise computer executable instructions code executed by the processor to implement the functions of the mobile device described herein. For example the memory may include such applications as an object recognition application an augment reality AR presentation application described infra in relation to a web browser application a Short Message Service SMS application an electronic mail i.e. email application etc.

Referring to a block diagram illustrating an AR experience in which a user utilizes the mobile device to capture a video stream that includes an environment is shown. As denoted earlier the mobile device may be any mobile communication device. The mobile device has the capability of capturing a video stream of the surrounding environment . The video capture may be by any means known in the art. In one particular embodiment the mobile device is a mobile telephone equipped with an image capture device capable of video capture.

The environment contains a number of objects . Some of such objects may include a marker identifiable to an object recognition application that is either executed on the mobile device or within the wireless network. A marker may be any type of marker that is a distinguishing feature that can be interpreted by the object recognition application to identify specific objects . For instance in identifying a document a marker may be some type of identifiable feature such as objects logos artwork names symbols color schemes products text locations and other features that identify the object . In some embodiments the marker is a code such as a barcode QR code or other identifying mark. In some embodiments the marker may be audio and the mobile device may be capable of utilizing audio recognition to identify words or the unique qualities of a recording associated with a document. For example the mobile device may identify the audio associated with a credit card commercial and identify the credit card application associated with the commercial. The marker may be any size shape etc. Indeed in some embodiments the marker may be the entire object such as the document that will be augmented.

In some embodiments the mobile device and or server accesses one or more other servers social media networks applications and or the like in order to retrieve and or search for information useful in performing object recognition. In some embodiments the mobile device and or server accesses another application by way of an application programming interface or API. In this regard the mobile device and or server may quickly search and or retrieve information from the other program without requiring additional authentication steps or other gateway steps.

In some embodiments the mobile device and or the server access one or more databases or datastores not shown to search for and or retrieve information related to the object and or marker. In some embodiments the mobile device and or the server accesses one or more datastores local to the mobile device and or server and in other embodiments the mobile device and or server access datastores remote to the mobile device and or server. In some embodiments the mobile device and or server access both a memory and or datastore local to the mobile device and or server as well as a datastore remote from the mobile device and or server

The marker may be anything that enables the mobile device to interpret what the object is. For example the mobile device may capture a series of numbers on the fa ade of a building collect the user s position using the positioning system device and correlate that position and the numbers to being at a specific business having an address available online. The mobile device may then use the web browser application and network interface to access the business s employment website and identify a job application document for the business. Accordingly the markers associated with the business s building and other available information were sufficient to identify the document.

While illustrates that the objects with markers only include a single marker it will be appreciated that the object may have any number of markers with each equally capable of identifying the object . Similarly multiple markers may be identified by the mobile device such that the combination of the markers may be utilized to identify the object .

In some embodiments a marker may be the location of the object . In such embodiments the mobile device may utilize Global Positioning System GPS hardware and or software or some other location determining mechanism to determine the location of the user and or the object . As noted above a location based marker could be utilized in conjunction with other non location based markers and recognized by the mobile device to identify the object . However in some embodiments a location based marker may be the only marker . For instance in such embodiments the mobile device may utilize GPS software to determine the location of the user and a compass device or software to determine what direction the mobile device is facing in order to identify the object . In still further embodiments the mobile device does not utilize any GPS data in the identification. In such embodiments markers utilized to identify the object are not location based.

The object recognition application may use any type of means in order to identify desired objects . For instance the object recognition application may utilize one or more pattern recognition algorithms to analyze objects in the environment and compare with markers in data storage which may be contained within the mobile device such as within integrated circuit or externally on a separate system accessible via the connected network. For example the pattern recognition algorithms may include decision trees logistic regression Bayes classifiers support vector machines kernel estimation perceptrons clustering algorithms regression algorithms categorical sequence labeling algorithms real valued sequence labeling algorithms parsing algorithms general algorithms for predicting arbitrarily structured labels such as Bayesian networks and Markov random fields ensemble learning algorithms such as bootstrap aggregating boosting ensemble averaging combinations thereof and the like.

Upon identifying an object within the video stream in some embodiments the AR presentation application is configured to superimpose an indicator on the mobile device display . In an embodiment the indicator is generally a graphical representation that highlights or outlines the object and may be activatable i.e. include an embedded link such that the user may select the indicator and retrieve information related to the identified object. The indicator may be a tab or link displayed such that the user may select the indicator . In embodiments in which the indicator provides an interactive tab to the user the user may select the indicator by any conventional means e.g. keystroke touch voice command iris tracking or the like for interaction with the mobile device . For instance in some embodiments the user may utilize an input device such as a keyboard to highlight and select the indicator in order to retrieve the information. In a particular embodiment the mobile device display includes a touch screen that the user may employ to select the indicator utilizing the user s finger a stylus or the like. In yet other embodiments the indicator information related to the identified object may be visualized by the user without selecting the indicator . In some embodiments the indicator is not interactive and simply provides information to the user by superimposing the indicator on the display . For example in some instances it may be beneficial for the AR presentation application to merely identify an object e.g. just identify the document associated with the object give brief information about the document etc. rather than provide extensive detail that requires interaction with the indicator . The AR presentation application is capable of being tailored to a user s desired preferences.

Furthermore the indicator may be displayed at any size on the mobile device display . The indicator may be small enough that it is positioned on or next to the object being identified such that the object remains discernable behind the indicator . Additionally the indicator may be semi transparent or an outline of the object such that the object remains discernable behind or enclosed by the indicator. In other embodiments the indicator may be large enough to completely cover the object portrayed on the display . Indeed in some embodiments the indicator may cover a majority or the entirety of the mobile device display . In a still further embodiment the indicator is displayed proximate the object but when selected causes an image of the document to appear on the user s mobile device display .

The indicator may relate to the document associated with the object i.e. the identified document. In another embodiment the indicator relates to the user of the mobile device or to a financial transaction that can be conducted with the identified document. In an embodiment the indicator provides information to the user. The information may include any desired information associated with the identified document and may range from basic information to greatly detailed information. In some embodiments the indicator may provide the user with a link to the document associated with the object . In a still further embodiment the indicator presents options to the user for controlling the document. For example the indicator may include tags that populate the document with libraries of user information such as business user information or personal user information. The indicator may also display various actions that can be taken regarding the document such as autofill submission recording printing communicating copying applying etc.

In some embodiments selecting the indicator will cause the AR presentation application to automatically populate the document associated with the object such as with the user s personal information. In some instances the populating functionality may be a part of the AR presentation application . In other embodiments the AR presentation application may access the user s accounts associated with a financial institution enabling the user to select information that will be used to populate the document without having to input data such as a credit card number or billing address. In other embodiments when the user selects the indicator to automatically populate the document the AR presentation application will activate the web browser application to allow the user to submit the document over the Internet.

In some embodiments selecting the indicator will cause the computer implemented method to send offers to the user of the mobile device. The alternative offers may be associated with the document. For example an employer may use the computer implemented method to target job applications to individuals that are applying for jobs with competitors. In another embodiment the offer is tailored to the individual such as by evaluating the user s financial or demographic information and tailoring the offer based on the information. For example offers for job applications closer to the individual s home may be made to the user. In another embodiment the current time or location when the offer is provided will be used to customize the offer. For example if a personal itinerary is being populated with information from a plane ticket the user may be provided offers to coffee shops in the airport in the morning and restaurants in the evening.

In another embodiment selecting the indicator allows the user to submit the document. In one embodiment the user is able to immediately populate the document and then submit it. For example a user may use the computer implemented system and method to identify a job application for a business and then complete the job application with the user s information and submit the job application to the business. In a still further embodiment the user is able to identify documents using the computer implemented system and method and then conduct transactions such as purchases transfers loans gifts or charitable donations using the document.

Turning now to a block diagram illustrating an AR environment wherein a document is presented to the user is provided in accordance with an embodiment of the invention. The user is using a mobile device to capture an image of the environment on a display . In an embodiment the environment may include multiple objects such as signs text or symbols.

As discussed herein the mobile device captures the objects and the processor compares the objects to reference images stored in databases such as an Augmented Reality AR database or a financial institution database . The AR database may store relationships between reference images objects markers and associated documents. The financial institution database may store information relating to the user such as user data personal data financial data and offers associated with the user or merchants. The mobile device may communicate with the databases over a network .

The network may be a global area network GAN such as the Internet a wide area network WAN a local area network LAN or any other type of network or combination of networks. The network may provide for wireline wireless or a combination wireline and wireless communication between devices on the network.

In some embodiments the mobile device displays an indicator such as a translation of text . The indicator is displayed over top or adjacent to the text in the display . The mobile device may display multiple indicators on the screen. For example a second indicator associated with a different object e.g. a symbol may be displayed on the screen. In an embodiment some indicators may be activated in order to display the associated document. In the example related to the symbol the indicator has not yet been activated and thus the document is not displayed.

In an embodiment once the indicator for an object is selected a document associated with the object is provided to the user. For example the display may change from displaying the real time video to displaying the document . In an embodiment the mobile device also populates fields in the document with the user s data. The user may cycle between the document and the real time video overlay the document on the real time video or submit the document . In this manner the mobile device assists the user in managing documents through object recognition and document augmentation.

The systems methods computer program products etc. described herein may be utilized or combined with any other suitable AR related application. Non limiting examples of other suitable AR related applications include those described in the following U.S. Provisional Patent Applications the entirety of each of which is incorporated herein by reference 

As will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art the present invention may be embodied as an apparatus including for example a system a machine a device a computer program product and or the like as a method including for example a business process a computer implemented process and or the like or as any combination of the foregoing. Accordingly embodiments of the present invention may take the form of an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code etc. an entirely hardware embodiment or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may generally be referred to herein as a system. Furthermore embodiments of the present invention may take the form of a computer program product that includes a computer readable storage medium having computer executable program code portions stored therein. As used herein a processor may be configured to perform a certain function in a variety of ways including for example by having one or more general purpose circuits perform the functions by executing one or more computer executable program code portions embodied in a computer readable medium and or having one or more application specific circuits perform the function.

It will be understood that any suitable computer readable medium may be utilized. The computer readable medium may include but is not limited to a non transitory computer readable medium such as a tangible electronic magnetic optical infrared electromagnetic and or semiconductor system apparatus and or device. For example in some embodiments the non transitory computer readable medium includes a tangible medium such as a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory a compact disc read only memory CD ROM and or some other tangible optical and or magnetic storage device. In other embodiments of the present invention however the computer readable medium may be transitory such as a propagation signal including computer executable program code portions embodied therein.

It will also be understood that one or more computer executable program code portions for carrying out operations of the present invention may include object oriented scripted and or unscripted programming languages such as for example Java Perl Smalltalk C SAS SQL Python Objective C and or the like. In some embodiments the one or more computer executable program code portions for carrying out operations of embodiments of the present invention are written in conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming languages and or similar programming languages. The computer program code may alternatively or additionally be written in one or more multi paradigm programming languages such as for example F .

It will further be understood that some embodiments of the present invention are described herein with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of systems methods and or computer program products. It will be understood that each block included in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks included in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams may be implemented by one or more computer executable program code portions. These one or more computer executable program code portions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer and or some other programmable data processing apparatus in order to produce a particular machine such that the one or more computer executable program code portions which execute via the processor of the computer and or other programmable data processing apparatus create mechanisms for implementing the steps and or functions represented by the flowchart s and or block diagram block s .

It will also be understood that the one or more computer executable program code portions may be stored in a transitory or non transitory computer readable medium e.g. a memory etc. that can direct a computer and or other programmable data processing apparatus to function in a particular manner such that the computer executable program code portions stored in the computer readable medium produce an article of manufacture including instruction mechanisms which implement the steps and or functions specified in the flowchart s and or block diagram block s .

The one or more computer executable program code portions may also be loaded onto a computer and or other programmable data processing apparatus to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer and or other programmable apparatus. In some embodiments this produces a computer implemented process such that the one or more computer executable program code portions which execute on the computer and or other programmable apparatus provide operational steps to implement the steps specified in the flowchart s and or the functions specified in the block diagram block s . Alternatively computer implemented steps may be combined with operator and or human implemented steps in order to carry out an embodiment of the present invention.

Thus methods systems computer programs and the like have been disclosed that provide for using real time video analysis such as AR or the like to assist the user of mobile devices with commerce activities. Through the use real time vision object recognition objects logos artwork products locations and other features that can be recognized in the real time video stream can be matched to data associated with such to assist the user with commerce activity. The commerce activity may include but is not limited to conducting a transaction providing information about a product service providing rewards based information providing user specific offers or the like. In specific embodiments the data that matched to the images in the real time video stream is specific to financial institutions such as user financial behavior history user purchase power transaction history and the like. In this regard many of the embodiments herein disclosed leverage financial institution data which is uniquely specific to financial institution in providing information to mobile devices users in connection with real time video stream analysis.

While the foregoing disclosure discusses illustrative embodiments it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the described aspects and or embodiments as defined by the appended claims. Furthermore although elements of the described aspects and or embodiments may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated. Additionally all or a portion of any embodiment may be utilized with all or a portion of any other embodiment unless stated otherwise.

While certain exemplary embodiments have been described and shown in the accompanying drawings it is to be understood that such embodiments are merely illustrative of and not restrictive on the broad invention and that this invention not be limited to the specific constructions and arrangements shown and described since various other changes combinations omissions modifications and substitutions in addition to those set forth in the above paragraphs are possible. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that various adaptations and modifications of the just described embodiments can be configured without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention. Therefore it is to be understood that within the scope of the appended claims the invention may be practiced other than as specifically described herein.

