---

title: System and method for controlling early low fuel warning based on driver status
abstract: A system and method is provided for controlling the operation of notifying drivers of the fluid level. Primary and secondary keys are adapted to be associated to primary and secondary drivers. A key ignition device is positioned on the primary and secondary keys and generates driver status signals. A fluid level sensing device is operable to generate a fluid level signal indicative of the fluid level. A controller is coupled to the fluid level sensing device and the key ignition device. The controller determines whether the driver of the vehicle is the primary or secondary driver in response to the driver status signals. The controller notifies the primary or secondary driver of the fluid level in response to the fluid level signal. The controller selectively controls the operation of notifying the primary or the secondary driver based on whether the driver is the primary or secondary driver.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08384535&OS=08384535&RS=08384535
owner: Ford Global Technologies, LLC
number: 08384535
owner_city: Dearborn
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120130
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 026 857 which is now U.S. Pat. No. 8 106 759 filed Feb. 6 2008 the disclosure of which is incorporated in its entirety by reference herein.

This application may also relate to U.S. patent Ser. No. 12 026 852 which is now U.S. Pat. No. 7 868 750 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR CONTROLLING A SAFETY RESTRAINT STATUS BASED ON DRIVER STATUS and filed on Feb. 6 2008 Ser. No. 12 026 867 which is now U.S. Pat. No. 8 280 580 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR CONTROLLING ELECTRONIC STABILITY CONTROL BASED ON DRIVER STATUS and filed on Feb. 6 2008 and Ser. No. 12 026 872 which is now U.S. Pat. No. 8 306 728 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR CONTROLLING OBJECT DETECTION BASED ON DRIVER STATUS and filed on Feb. 6 2008.

The embodiments described herein generally relate to a system and method for controlling the operation of vehicle features between primary and secondary drivers.

With conventional automotive vehicles one or more keys are often shared between any number of drivers. For example the parents of a teenager or young adult that is old enough to drive may share the keys for the vehicle with the teenager. The vehicle may be equipped with various safety and or driver notification features that may be enabled disabled via a user interface based on the driver s needs. However in some circumstances the parent may not wish to have the various safety and notification related features disabled by the teenager. The parent may enable the safety and notification features prior to allowing the teenager to drive the vehicle however there is no guarantee that the teenager may keep the safety and notification features enabled while driving the vehicle. Conventional vehicles fail to give parents or other such primary drivers the option of preventing teenagers eligible to driver or other such secondary drivers from disabling safety and notification features.

In one embodiment a system for controlling the operation of notifying primary and secondary drivers about a fluid level for a fluid in a vehicle is provided. The system comprises at least one primary key at least one secondary key a key ignition device and a controller. The primary key is adapted to be associated to the primary driver. The secondary key is adapted to be associated to the secondary driver. The key ignition device is positioned on each of the primary key and the secondary key and configured to generate driver status signals indicative of whether the driver is at least one of the primary driver and the secondary driver. A fluid level sensing device is operable to measure an amount of fluid in the vehicle and to generate a fluid level signal indicative of the fluid level of the fluid in the vehicle. The controller is operably coupled to the fluid level sensing device and the key ignition device. The controller is adapted to determine whether the driver of the vehicle is at least one of the primary driver and the secondary driver in response to the driver status signals. The controller is further adapted to notify at least one of the primary driver and the secondary driver of the fluid level in response to the fluid level signal. The controller is further adapted to selectively control the operation of notifying at least one of the primary driver and the secondary driver based on whether the driver of the vehicle is at least one of the primary driver and the secondary driver.

In another embodiment a method for controlling the operation of notifying a primary driver and a secondary driver about a fluid level for a fluid in a vehicle is provided. The method includes tagging at least one primary key to the primary driver and tagging at least one secondary key to the secondary driver. The method further includes positioning a key ignition device on each of the primary key and the secondary key and generating driver status indicative of whether the driver is at least one of the primary driver and the secondary driver with the key ignition device. The method further includes measuring an amount of fluid in the vehicle to generate a fluid level signal indicative of the fluid level of the fluid in the vehicle and determining whether the driver of the vehicle is at least one of the primary driver and the secondary driver in response to the driver status signals. The method further includes notifying at least one of the primary driver and the secondary driver of the fluid level in response to the fluid level signal and selectively controlling the operation of notifying at least one of the primary driver and the secondary driver of the fluid level based on whether the driver of the vehicle is at least one of the primary driver and the secondary driver.

In yet another embodiment a system for controlling the operation of notifying primary and secondary drivers about a fluid level for fuel in a vehicle. The system comprises a first controller and a second controller. The first controller is adapted to associate at least one primary key having a first key ignition device to the primary driver and to associate at least one secondary key having a second key ignition device to the secondary driver. The first and second key ignition devices are each configured to generate driver status signals indicative of whether the driver is at least one of the primary driver and the secondary driver. A fuel level sensing device is operable to measure an amount of fuel in the vehicle and to generate a fluid level signal indicative of the fluid level of the fuel in the vehicle. The second controller is operably coupled to the fuel level sensing device and to at least one of the first controller and the first and second key ignition devices. The second controller is adapted to determine whether the driver of the vehicle is at least one of the primary driver and the secondary driver in response to the driver status signals. The second controller is further adapted to notify at least one of the primary driver and the secondary driver when the fluid level of the fuel is at a low level in response to the fluid level signal. The second controller is further configured to selectively control the operation of notifying at least one of the primary driver and the secondary driver based on whether the driver of the vehicle is at least one of the primary driver and the secondary driver.

As required detailed embodiments of the present invention are disclosed herein however it is to be understood that the disclosed embodiments are merely exemplary of the invention that may be embodied in various and alternative forms. The figures are not necessarily to scale some features may be exaggerated or minimized to show details of particular components. Therefore specific structural and functional details disclosed herein are not to be interpreted as limiting but merely as a representative basis for teaching one skilled in the art to variously employ the present invention.

The embodiments of the present invention generally provides for a driver identification functional operation whereby primary and secondary drivers are determined and various levels of control are granted to the driver based on whether the driver is the primary driver or the secondary driver. In general the primary driver may be defined as the administrative driver who has greater control over the functionality of the various safety and or notification features in the vehicle. The secondary driver may be defined as a restricted driver who has limited control over the safety and or notification features generally provided by the vehicle and is to abide by the functional restrictions imposed or selected by the vehicle or the primary driver. The embodiments of the present invention provides but are not limited to inhibiting a seatbelt restraint status disable inhibiting a forward collision warning FCW disable inhibiting an electronic stability control ESC disable inhibiting a traction control TC disable and adjusting the operation of a low fluid level warning or low fuel level warning. The inhibiting and adjusting operations may be based on the status of the driver.

The embodiments of the present invention as set forth in generally illustrate and describe a plurality of controllers or modules or other such electrically based components. All references to the various controllers and electrically based components and the functionality provided for each are not intended to be limited to encompassing only what is illustrated and described herein. While particular labels may be assigned to the various controllers and or electrical components disclosed such labels are not intended to limit the scope of operation for the controllers and or the electrical components. The controllers may be combined with each other and or separated in any manner based on the particular type of electrical architecture that is desired or intended to be implemented in the vehicle.

The cluster also includes a plurality of message center switches and chimes . The driver may toggle the message center switches to view different messages and or respond to various prompts directed to the driver by the vehicle. The chimes may audibly notify the driver when predetermined vehicle conditions have been met. In one example the cluster may activate the chimes when the vehicle is near a top speed the vehicle has achieved a top speed the vehicle has exceeded the top speed there is a low level of fuel in the fuel tank and or when the TC is enabled.

The cluster includes a passive anti theft security PATS controller . While generally illustrates that the PATS controller is positioned within the cluster other implementations may include the PATS controller being implemented as a standalone controller and positioned external to the cluster . A smart power distribution junction box SPDJB controller may be operably coupled to the cluster . The cluster and the SPDJB controller may communicate with each via a multiplexed bus. In general all of the signals transmitted to from the cluster may be transmitted via the multiplexed bus. The multiplexed bus may be implemented as a High Medium Speed Controller Area Network CAN bus or a Local Interconnect Network LIN . The particular type of multiplexed bus used may be varied to meet the desired criteria of a particular implementation. The SPDJB controller may include a plurality of fuses relays and various micro controllers for performing any number of functions related to the operation of interior and or exterior electrically based functionality of the vehicle. Such functions may include but are not limited to electronic unlocking locking via interior door lock unlock switches remote keyless entry operation vehicle lighting interior and or exterior electronic power windows and or key ignition status e.g. Off Run Start Accessory ACCY .

An ignition switch may be operably coupled to the SPDJB controller . The SPDJB controller may receive hardwired signals indicative of the position of the ignition switch and transmit multiplexed messages on the multiplexed bus that are indicative of the position of the ignition switch. For example the SPDJB controller may transmit a signal IGN SW STS over the multiplexed bus to the cluster . The SPDJB controller may transmit the signal IGN SW STS to any controller coupled to the multiplexed bus that may need key ignition status as an input to perform a particular function.

The ignition switch may receive one or more keys to start the vehicle. The keys may be tagged or associated with the primary driver and the secondary driver of the vehicle. The key includes an ignition key device embedded therein for communicating with the vehicle. The ignition key device comprises a transponder not shown having an integrated circuit and an antenna. The transponder is adapted to transmit an electronic code as a signal DRIVER STATUS to the PATS controller . The signal DRIVER STATUS may be indicative of which driver e.g. primary or secondary is driving the vehicle. The signal DRIVER STATUS may be in the form of radio frequency RF based signal or a radio frequency identification RFID tag which corresponds to hexadecimal based data. The PATS controller determines if the hex data in the RFID tag matches predetermined hex data stored therein e.g. in a look up table of the PATS controller prior to allowing the vehicle to start for anti theft purposes. In the event the RFID tag matches the predetermined hex data an engine controller operably coupled to the PATS controller allows the vehicle to start the engine. In general the vehicle assembly plant supplier facility e.g. manufacturer of the keys and or PATS controller or car dealership performs the operation of learning the RFID tag of the keys to the vehicle prior to delivery the vehicle to the end user.

The PATS controller may also use the signal DRIVER STATUS for purposes of identifying whether the driver of the vehicle is the primary driver or the secondary driver. For example the PATS controller may transmit a signal DRIVER STATUS  to indicate whether the particular driver is the primary driver or the secondary driver to various vehicle controllers or modules as either multiplexed message data or hardwired signals. Prior to the PATS controller transmitting the signal DRIVER STATUS  the primary and secondary keys must be learned to the PATS controller .

The system may employ different operations for associating the keys to the primary and secondary drivers. In one implementation the PATS controller may employ a sequential based operation for associating the keys to the primary and secondary drivers. For example during the learn operation whereby the RFID tag for a particular key is learned to the vehicle to support the passive anti theft function the PATS controller may assign priority status to the first key learned which in essence tags the first key as the primary key. The RFID tag of the first key learned to the vehicle may be assigned a higher status than the second key. The RFID tag of the second key when learned to the vehicle may be designated by the PATS controller as the secondary key. The particular order with respect to when a key is assigned primary or secondary status may be varied to meet the designed criteria of a particular implementation. In addition any number of spare keys may be tagged as being either primary or secondary. For example any number of replacement or spare keys may be learned to the vehicle and designated as either a primary or a secondary key. After the PATS controller tags the keys as either primary or secondary keys the PATS controller sends the signal DRIVER STATUS  over the bus to indicate whether the driver of the vehicle is the primary or secondary driver. The tag operation may be performed simultaneously with the process of learning the keys to the PATS controller for passive anti theft purposes.

In another implementation the PATS controller may add additional data to the RFID tag to correspond to whether the driver of the vehicle is the primary or the secondary driver. The RFID tag may include a byte which includes predetermined hex values that corresponds to whether the driver of the vehicle is the primary or secondary driver. For example the byte may include the value FE which corresponds to the primary driver. The PATS controller upon receiving the RFID tag with the FE value may recognize the particular key as a primary key and determine that the status of the driver is the primary driver. The byte may also include the value FF in the place of FE which corresponds to the secondary driver. The PATS controller upon receiving the RFID tag with the value FF may recognize the particular key as a secondary key and determine that the status of the driver is the secondary driver. It should be noted that the hex bytes FE and FF are used for illustrative purposes. The particular type of hex data and the length of data used to correspond to the primary and secondary drivers may vary based on the desired criteria of a particular implementation.

A restraint control module RCM may be operably coupled to the cluster via the multiplexed bus. The RCM may deploy various safety restraint systems in response to the vehicle experiencing impact with an object. For example the restraint control module may deploy one or more airbags positioned about the vehicle motorized pretensioners and or seat controls to reduce the risk of injury to vehicle occupants in the event the vehicle experiences an impact. A seatbelt status controller may be operably coupled to the restraints control module . While generally illustrates that the seatbelt status controller is positioned within the RCM additional configurations may include positioning the seatbelt status controller out of the RCM . The seatbelt status controller is generally adapted to notify the driver that one or more seatbelts in the vehicle have not been fastened or are in an unbuckled state. The seatbelt status operation controller is disclosed in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 278 358 to Spoto et al. 6 362 734 to McQuade et al. and 6 501 374 to King et al. which are assigned to the assignee of the present invention and are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.

A driver s buckle switch is coupled to the seatbelt status controller and generally presents data indicative of whether the driver s seatbelt is fastened to the driver. A passenger buckle switch is also coupled to the seatbelt status controller and generally presents data indicative of whether the passenger s seatbelt is fastened. An occupant classification system may be optionally coupled to the seatbelt status controller for providing information with respect to the position of the occupants in the vehicle. The seatbelt status controller may use such information provided by the occupant classification system to determine which seat is occupied by an occupant. Based on vehicle occupant location the seatbelt status controller may have knowledge with respect to which seatbelts may need to be monitored by the seatbelt status controller .

In general the seatbelt status controller is generally adapted to audibly and visually notify the occupant in the vehicle that one or more of the seatbelts are not fastened when the ignition is in the run position and the vehicle speed is above a predetermined speed threshold. In addition the seatbelt status controller may be deactivated if at any time the seatbelt is fastened or buckled or after the seatbelt status controller has audibly and visually notified the occupant for a predetermined amount of time e.g. five minutes . The seatbelt status controller includes a chime not shown for audibly notifying the driver in the event one or more of the seatbelts are not fastened the vehicle speed has reached and or exceeded the predetermined vehicle speed threshold and the position of the ignition switch is in run. The seatbelt status controller may transmit a signal BLT STS over the multiplexed bus to the cluster so that the cluster visually notifies the driver via the message center display or with a telltale indicator that one or more of the seatbelts are not fastened or buckled . The telltale is generally defined as a indicator positioned in the cluster which includes a symbol e.g. engine seatbelt low fuel etc. positioned thereon and configured to illuminate when predetermined conditions related to each of the engine seatbelt and low fuel have been met. The signal BLT STS generally corresponds to a restraint status signal in which one or more of the seatbelts may be unfastened or in an unbuckled state and the vehicle speed and the ignition status conditions have been met. In one example the seatbelt status controller may transmit an intermittent chime at 240 rep min at a frequency of 740 Hz. The number or repetitions per minute and the frequency of the chime may vary based on the desired characteristics of a particular implementation.

The cluster transmits the signal IGN SW STS to the seatbelt status controller so that the seatbelt status controller may assess the status of the ignition switch e.g. OFF RUN ACCY or START . An audio control module ACM may be operably coupled to the cluster via the multiplexed bus. The ACM is adapted to generate audible signals for entertainment purposes. The ACM may also be adapted to amplify voice commands in the event a cell phone is coupled to the ACM . In addition the ACM may be used in combination with a voice recognition session. The ACM ceases to generate audible signals in response to the seatbelt status controller determining that one or more seatbelts are not fastened and the vehicle speed and ignition status conditions are met. The ACM performs the mute operation in response to receiving the signal BLT STATUS. The ACM may not be in a muted state when used to facilitate a cell phone conversation or when used in connection with a voice recognition session in the event the seatbelts are disabled and the applicable vehicle criteria is met.

Conventional vehicles generally provide drivers with the ability to enable or disable the seatbelt status controller in order to turn off on the controller as desired by the driver. By disabling the controller the controller may cease to audibly notify the driver and cease to transmit the signal BLT STATUS to the cluster for visually notifying the driver that the seatbelts are in unbuckled state. The system provides the primary driver with the option of selectively enabling disabling the operation of the controller however the system may prevent the secondary driver from disabling the operation of the seatbelt status controller . The controller receives the signal DRIVER STATUS  to determine whether the driver is the primary driver or the secondary driver. The seatbelt status controller is generally configured ON and provides audible notification and the cluster is configured to visually present the safety belt unfastened message when the applicable vehicle criteria is met and in response to determining that the secondary driver is driving the vehicle. The functionality performed by the seatbelt status controller may be incorporated into the cluster or the SPDJB .

In one example the cluster may visually present the option of enabling disabling the seatbelt status option via the message center display and allow the primary driver to select a corresponding option via the message center switches . In such an example the cluster may transmit a control signal not shown to the seatbelt status controller to enable disable the seatbelt status operation. The cluster on the other hand may not visually present such an option to the secondary driver in response to detecting that the driver of the vehicle is the secondary driver. The control of the operation of the seatbelt status controller based on the status of the driver will be further discussed in connection with . In the event the driver of the vehicle is the secondary driver the ACM is muted in response to determining that the secondary driver is not fastened with a seatbelt and the applicable vehicle criteria is met. The muted characteristic of the ACM may not be enabled disabled by the secondary driver.

A forward collision warning FCW module may be operably coupled to the cluster and receive the signal DRIVER STATUS  from the cluster . The FCW module may be a portion of an active sensing system that is adapted to determine if the vehicle is in a state in which a frontal collision may be imminent. In such a case the FCW module may transmit a signal FCW to the cluster in the event a forward collision is imminent. The FCW system generally includes a heads up display HUD which includes a bank of LEDs. The bank of LEDs are disposed about the windshield of the vehicle. The FCW module is operably coupled to a radar system not shown . The radar system detects the position of the object with respect to the vehicle. In the event an imminent collision is detected by the radar system the radar system transmits a control signal not shown to the FCW module . The FCW module illuminates the bank of LEDs to notify the occupants that a collision may be imminent. The FCW module generally allows the driver to enable disable the chime and or the visual indicators as well as to adjust a particular sensitivity level.

The cluster may also audibly and visually notify via the message center display or telltale and the chimes the driver of the collision when the collision is imminent. An FCW switch may be coupled to the FCW module to enable disable the FCW module and control vehicle sensitivity. In addition the FCW feature may be enabled disabled by the primary driver via the message center switches in the cluster . In such an example the cluster may transmit a control signal not shown to the FCW module to enable disable the FCW feature. The primary driver is generally permitted to enable disable the chime and or visual indicator and adjust the sensitivity level of the FCW system. The secondary driver is prohibited from disabling the FCW feature in the event the secondary driver is detected to be the driver of the vehicle. For example the cluster may not present the enable disable prompt to the secondary driver via the cluster to allow the secondary driver to disable FCW. The cluster is configured to allow the secondary driver to adjust vehicle sensitivity for determining the particular moment in which the FCW warning is to be issued. The secondary driver may increase decrease sensitivity to trigger the FCW earlier later based on the selected sensitivity level. The secondary driver is prohibited from enabling disabling the visual and or audible warning mechanism of the FCW. The control of the operation of the FCW warning will be discussed further in connection with .

A fuel level sensor may be operably coupled to the cluster for transmitting information with respect to the amount of fuel or the fuel level in the fuel tank of the vehicle. The cluster may visually present a low fuel warning via the message center display or with a telltale not shown . The cluster is adapted to calculate the amount of fuel based on the fuel level information provided by the fuel level sensor . In one example the cluster is generally adapted to present the low fuel warning when the fuel level is less than or equal to a standard Distance To Empty DTE . The DTE is defined as the distance in miles or kilometers from the moment to when the fuel tank may be empty. The DTE value may be varied based on who the particular driver e.g. primary or secondary of the vehicle is. In one example the standard DTE for the primary driver may be in a range of between one to sixty miles from the moment in which the fuel tank may be empty.

The strategy for triggering the low fuel warning may be altered in the event the cluster determines that the vehicle is being driven by the secondary driver. For example the low fuel warning may be issued when the fuel level is less than or equal to the standard DTE multiplied by a predetermined value. In one example the predetermined value may be set to one and a half while the DTE is at fifty miles. In such a case the cluster may issue the low fuel warning earlier e.g. at seventy five miles before the fuel tank is empty when compared to the point in which the low fuel warning is issued for the primary driver. In general the system is adapted to provide for the low fuel warning at an earlier point in time when the driver of the vehicle is detected to be the secondary driver. The control of the operation of the low fuel level warning will be discussed further in connection with . It should be noted that the low fuel level strategy may be implemented for any type of low fluid warning detection configuration in the vehicle. Such a low fluid warning detection configuration may apply to windshield wiper fluid oil and or transmission fluid.

An ESC module may be operably coupled to the cluster . The ESC module is adapted to control the operation of various electronic stability control ESC systems such as traction control TC yaw stability control YSC and rollover stability control RSC . The ESC module may include a TC controller not shown a YSC controller not shown and a RSC controller not shown . The TC controller generally reduces power to drive wheels of the vehicle in order to minimize wheel spin and maximize traction. The YSC controller generally controls the vehicle s motion of rotation about a vertical axis. The RSC controller generally controls the motion of the vehicle by selectively applying brakes and controlling the speed of the vehicle to prevent the vehicle from rolling over.

An ESC control switch may be operably coupled directly to the ESC module or directly to the cluster . The ESC control switch generally allows the driver the ability to enable disable the one or more ESC operations in the event one or more of the ESC operations are not needed. For example the ESC control switch may allow the driver the ability to disable the traction control system due to various road conditions such as snow dirt ice etc. The ESC module is configured to present a signal ESC STATUS to the cluster so that the cluster can display the current state of ESC systems e.g. TC YSC and RSC . In the event the ESC control switch is coupled to the cluster the cluster transmits a signal ESC CONTROL to the ESC module to enable disable the ESC operations. The message center switch may also be used by the driver to enable disable the ESC operation without the need for the ESC switch . In such a case the cluster transmits the signal ESC CONTROL to the ESC module to enable disable the ESC operation.

The ESC module is adapted to receive the signal DRIVER STATUS from the cluster to determine if the driver of the vehicle is the primary or the secondary driver. The ESC module is configured to prevent the secondary driver from disabling any one or more of the ESC operations. For example the primary driver may desire to prevent the secondary driver from disabling the traction control operation for safety reasons. Such a condition may prevent the secondary driver from spinning or burning the tires and or drifting when the traction control is disabled. In the event the driver of the vehicle is the secondary driver the cluster may not present a message in the message center display to the secondary driver to allow the secondary driver to disable the ESC operations. In the event the secondary driver attempts to disable any one or more of the ESC features the cluster may display an ESC driver status message.

The primary driver may allow the secondary driver to enable disable the operation of the traction control in the event it may be likely that the secondary driver may experience road conditions that may require disabling traction control. For example due to various weather conditions or road conditions the primary driver may configure the ESC module via the cluster to allow the secondary driver to disable the traction control. For example the message center display may provide for an inhibit traction control message which allows the primary driver the option of either allowing the secondary driver the ability to enable disable traction control or to inhibit enabling disabling the traction control.

In the event the primary driver intends to allow the secondary driver to enable disable the traction control the primary driver may simply choose not to select the inhibit traction control option with the message center switches . No action is required by the primary driver in this case. In the event the primary driver intends to inhibit the traction control disable feature for the secondary driver e.g. prevent the secondary driver from either enabling disabling the traction control feature the primary driver may select the inhibit feature via the message control switches thereby precluding the secondary driver from enabling disabling the traction control feature. The cluster may transmit the signal ESC CONTROL to the ESC module e.g. if the ESC control switch is coupled to the cluster which is indicative of whether the secondary driver can enable disable the one or more ESC operations or whether the secondary driver is precluded from enabling disabling the traction feature. The control over the operation of the ESC operations will be discussed further in connection with .

A parking aid module may be operably coupled to the cluster . The parking aid module is adapted to provide a warning to the driver in the event the front or rear portions of the vehicle comes too close to an object while the vehicle is being parked. In one example a park aid switch may be coupled to the parking aid module and enable disable the park aid feature. In another example the driver may use the message center switches to enable disable the park aid feature. In another implementation the parking aid module may be integrated into an auto park module . The auto park module may be coupled to cluster . The auto park module is generally configured to automatically park the vehicle for the driver. For example in a parallel parking situation the driver may give control over the vehicle to the auto park module and allow the vehicle to park itself. An auto park switch is coupled to the auto park module for controlling the operation of the auto park switch .

The operation of the park aid feature may be enabled disabled based on the status of the driver. The primary driver is free to enable disable the operation of the park aid feature as desired. The primary driver may prevent the secondary driver from disabling the park aid feature. The parking aid module is adapted to receive the signal DRIVER STATUS  from the cluster to determine if the driver of the vehicle is the primary or the secondary driver. In the event the driver of the vehicle is determined to be the primary driver the cluster may allow the primary driver to enable disable the park aid operation via the park aid switch . In one example the primary driver may view the enable disable park aid option via the message center display and select the enable disable option via the message center switches . In such an example the cluster may transmit a control signal not shown to the parking aid module to enable disable the park aid feature.

In the event the driver is the secondary driver the cluster inhibits the park aid disable option and prevents the secondary driver from viewing the enable disable park aid option in the message center display . In the auto park module implementation the cluster may be adapted to transmit the signal DRIVER STATUS  to the auto park module to determine whether the driver is the primary or the secondary driver. The control over the operation of the parking aid feature will be discussed further in connection with .

In general the PEPS function is a keyless access and start system. The driver may carry one or more keys that may be in the form of an electronic transmission device. The keys each include the ignition key device embedded within for communicating with the PEPS controller . The transponder of the ignition key device is adapted to send the RFID tags as the signal DRIVER STATUS to the PEPS controller . To gain access or entry into the vehicle with the keys in the PEPS implementation the driver may need to wake up the PEPS controller to establish bi directional communication between the keys and the PEPS controller . In one example such a wake up may occur by requiring the driver to touch and or pull the door handle of the vehicle. In response to the door handle being toggled or touched the PEPS controller may wake up and transmit RF based signals to the keys. The PEPS controller and the keys may undergo a series of communications back and forth to each other e.g. handshaking for vehicle access authentication purposes. The PEPS controller may unlock the doors in response to a successful completion of the handshaking process. Once the driver is in the vehicle the driver may simply press a button positioned on an instrument panel to start the vehicle.

The system may be adapted to tag or associate the keys as either a primary or a secondary key during a learn operation as discussed with the PATS controller . As noted in connection with while learning the keys to the vehicle during vehicle assembly or during repair the keys may be tagged as a primary key or a secondary key based on the sequential order in which the keys are learned to the vehicle. For example the PEPS controller may assign the first key that is learned to the vehicle as the primary key and the second key that is learned to the vehicle as the secondary key. During vehicle startup the keys each transmit a corresponding RFID tag having hexidecimal based data on the signal DRIVER STATUS to the PEPS controller . The PEPS controller may compare the hex data in the RFID tag to predetermined hex data in a lookup table of the PATS controller to determine if a match occurs. If a match occurs the PEPS controller may allow the engine to start in the event the driver intends to start the vehicle.

In addition to the learn operation as discussed immediately above the system may tag or associate the keys by providing predetermined hex data in the RFID tag which corresponds to whether the key is a primary key or a secondary key as noted in connection with the PATS controller . The PEPS controller receives the predetermined hex in the RFID tag and determines whether the key is a primary or a secondary key based on the predetermined hex data in the RFID tag.

Any number of additional keys may be tagged as either the primary or secondary key. For example a plurality of replacement or spare keys may be learned to the vehicle and designated as either a primary or a secondary key. The PEPS controller is adapted to provide the signal DRIVER STATUS  to the various controllers over the multiplexed bus. The signal DRIVER STATUS  corresponds to whether the driver is the primary driver or the secondary driver. The PEPS controller may also transmit the signal IGN SW STS to the cluster . The PEPS controller determines that the key ignition status is in the run position in response to the driver toggling the brake pedal and depressing the start switch. In such a case the vehicle is started and the PEPS controller transmits the signal IGN SW STS as being in the run state. In the event the driver selects only the start button the PEPS controller transmits the signal IGN SW STS as being in the accessory state.

The PATS controller may be positioned within the BCM . While generally illustrates that the PATS controller is positioned within the BCM the PATS controller may be positioned in the cluster or any other controller or module shown in . In addition the PATS controller may be implemented as a standalone unit. The particular placement of the PATS controller may be varied to meet the design criteria of a particular implementation. The PATS controller may be coupled directly to the ignition switch . The BCM may transmit the signal IGN SW STS to the cluster via the multiplexed bus. The BCM may transmit and receive all signals as illustrated in via the multiplexed bus. Additionally the cluster may transmit and receive all signals as illustrated in via the multiplexed bus. The BCM may be adapted to transmit the signal DRIVER STATUS  to the cluster the restraint control module the seatbelt status controller the audio control module the ESC module the parking aid module and or the auto park module . The cluster inhibits FCW disable the park aid disable ESC disable and provides for the early low fuel warning in response to the signal DRIVER STATUS  indicating that the secondary driver is driving the vehicle. The seatbelt status controller may inhibit the seatbelt status operation and prevent the secondary driver from disabling the operation in the event the secondary driver is determined to be the driver of the vehicle.

The BCM may provide the signal DRIVER STATUS  to the SDM . In the event the signal DRIVER STATUS  corresponds to the primary driver the cluster and or the SDM may allow the primary driver to enable disable ESC FCW and parking aid. The cluster may use the signal DRIVER STATUS  to maintain the normal low fuel warning strategy in the event the signal DRIVER STATUS  corresponds to the primary driver. In the event the signal DRIVER STATUS  corresponds to the secondary driver the SDM may not allow the secondary driver to inhibit the seatbelt status disable TC disable ESC disable FCW disable and park aid disable. The cluster may change the strategy with respect to issuing the low fuel warning strategy at an earlier point in time if the signal DRIVER STATUS corresponds to the secondary driver.

The PEPS controller may determine the driver status in response to the signal DRIVER STATUS transmitted from the ignition key device and transmit the signal DRIVER STATUS  to the BCM . The BCM transmits the signal DRIVER STATUS  to the SDM . The SDM and or the cluster may allow the primary driver to enable disable ESC FCW and parking aid feature. The cluster may use the DRIVER STATUS  to maintain the normal low fuel warning strategy in the event the signal DRIVER STATUS  corresponds to the primary driver. In the event the signal DRIVER STATUS  corresponds to the secondary driver the SDM may not allow the secondary driver to inhibit the seatbelt status disable ESC disable FCW disable and park aid disable. In addition the cluster may change the strategy with respect to issuing the low fuel warning strategy at an earlier point in time if the signal DRIVER STATUS corresponds to the secondary driver.

In block the keys are monitored to determine if the keys were programmed. The PATS controller or the PEPS controller is adapted to determine if the keys are properly programmed so that the vehicle can be started. The PATS controller or the PEPS controller is also adapted to determine if the keys correspond to either the primary or secondary driver. In the event the keys are not properly programmed to start the vehicle then the diagram moves to block . In the event the keys are properly programmed to start the vehicle then the diagram moves to block .

In block an error is detected. The PATS controller or the PEPS controller determines an error and may not allow the driver to start the vehicle.

In block a vehicle start is monitored. For the systems and the SPDJB or the BCM determines whether the ignition switch is in the start position. For systems and the PEPS controller determines whether the vehicle is started. If the vehicle is started then the diagram moves to block . If the vehicle has not been started then the diagram moves back to block .

In block the cluster determines if the key was programmed as a primary key for the primary driver or if the key was programmed as a secondary key for the secondary driver. If the key is determined to be a primary key then the diagram moves to block . If the key is determined to be a secondary key then the diagram moves to block . In the event the key is not programmed as a primary or secondary key the diagram moves to block .

In block the vehicle resumes standard vehicle function and no display regarding driver status is presented to the driver.

In block a driver status message is presented to the driver. For systems and the message center display of the cluster displays the driver status message to the primary or secondary drivers. For systems and the SDM displays the driver status startup message to the primary or secondary drivers. In general the driver status message may be useful in the situation whereby the primary driver accidentally uses the secondary key to start the vehicle. In such an example a driver status message may be presented thereby notifying the primary driver that the vehicle may have limited override capability with respect to enabling and disabling the safety and notification features of the vehicle.

In block the keys are monitored to determine if the keys were programmed to start the vehicle. The PATS controller or the PEPS controller is adapted to determine if the keys are properly programmed so that the vehicle can be started. The PATS controller or the PEPS controller is also adapted to determine if the keys correspond to either the primary or the secondary driver. In the event the keys are not programmed or valid to start the vehicle the diagram moves to block . In the event the keys are properly programmed the diagram moves to block .

In block an error is detected. The PATS controller or the PEPS controller determines an error and may not allow the driver to start the vehicle in the event the keys are not properly programmed to start the vehicle.

In block the RCM determines if the key was programmed as a primary key for the primary driver or if the key was programmed as a secondary key for the secondary driver. If the key is determined to be a primary key then the diagram moves to the block . If the key is determined to be a secondary key then the diagram moves to the block . If the key is not associated with a primary driver or a secondary driver then the diagram moves back to block .

In block the primary driver may resume the current belt status configuration. The primary driver has the option of disabling and enabling the seatbelt status as desired. The seatbelt status controller if left on or enabled by the primary driver may optionally mute the ACM in the event the seatbelt warning is issued both visually and audibly if the primary driver is not buckled and the rest of the applicable vehicle criteria is met. The seatbelt status controller may continue to visually and audibly warn the primary driver and optionally mute the ACM for a predetermined amount of time and then turn off in the event the primary driver does not fasten the seatbelts. In addition if the key was not programmed as either a primary key or a secondary key the current belt status is maintained and the driver of the vehicle may have the option of disabling and enabling the seatbelt status as desired.

In block the seatbelt status controller inhibits the seatbelt status override feature for the secondary driver. In other words the seatbelt status controller may not allow the secondary driver to disable the seatbelt status feature or operation.

In block the seatbelt status controller inhibits the seatbelt status time feature for the secondary driver. For example the seatbelt status controller prevents the secondary driver from adjusting the time interval as to when the driver is notified of an unbuckled seat belt.

In block the audio control module is muted when the seatbelt status visually notifies the driver that one or more of the seatbelts are not buckled. For system the seatbelt status controller transmits the signal BLT STATUS to the audio control module via the cluster see . For system and the seatbelt status controller transmits the signal BLT STATUS to the audio control module via the cluster and the BCM see . In general the seatbelt status controller transmits the signal BLT STATUS to the audio control module to turn off audio except for cell phone conversation and during a voice recognition session generated from the audio control module e.g. music news weather etc. and to audibly notify the secondary driver of the seatbelt unbuckled status. The ACM may remain in a muted state while the seatbelts of the secondary driver are unbuckled. In addition the seatbelt status controller monitors the particular positioning of occupants seated throughout the vehicle via the occupant classification system . In the event the driver is the secondary driver and one or more of the seats which include an occupant unbuckles his her seatbelt the ACM is muted and the secondary driver is audibly and visually warned that any one or more of the seatbelts of the occupants are unbuckled. The warning may remain on until the secondary driver and or the vehicle occupants buckle their respective seatbelts. The seatbelt warning is generally issued when the seatbelts are detected to be unfastened and when a predetermined vehicle speed is achieved e.g. 6 kph . The particular value used for the predetermined vehicle speed may be varied to meet the desired criteria of a particular implementation.

In block the cluster or the SDM displays the seatbelt warning message which corresponds to one or more seatbelts not being in a buckled state. The seatbelt warning message may be displayed via a telltale in the cluster the message center and or in a visual indicator on the ACM .

In block the seatbelt status controller monitors the driver s and passenger s buckle switch to detect seatbelt buckle status or waits for the seatbelt to be fastened.

In block the keys are monitored to determine if the keys were programmed to start the vehicle. The PATS controller or the PEPS controller is adapted to determine if the keys are valid for starting the vehicle. The PATS controller or the PEPS controller is also adapted to determine if the keys correspond to either the primary or the secondary driver. In the event the keys are not programmed or valid to start the vehicle the diagram moves to block . In the event keys are properly programmed the diagram moves to block .

In block an error is detected. The PATS controller or the PEPS controller determines an error and may not allow the driver to start the vehicle in the event the keys are not properly programmed to the vehicle.

In block the cluster determines if the key was tagged as a primary key for the primary driver or if the key was tagged as the secondary key for the secondary driver. If the key is determined to be a primary key then the diagram moves to block . If the key is determined to be the secondary key then the diagram moves to block . If the key is not associated with a primary or a secondary driver then the diagram moves to the block .

In block the cluster uses the standard DTE as the threshold for determining when to activate the low fuel warning. The cluster activates the low fuel warning in response to determining that the fuel level is less than the DTE. The cluster may display the low fuel warning in the message center display . The chimes of the cluster may also be active when displaying the low fuel warning. In one example the standard DTE corresponds to a distance to empty of approximately fifty miles to empty. The standard distance to empty may be varied to meet the design criteria of a particular implementation. Additional examples may also include the SDM displaying the low fuel warning.

In block the cluster modifies the low fuel warning strategy such that the low fuel warning is activated when the fuel level is below the DTE multiplied by a predetermined value. In one example the DTE may be fifty miles to empty and the predetermined value may be one and a half. Based on such an example the cluster may display the low fuel warning when the fuel tank is seventy five miles to empty. The low fuel warning is generally issued earlier for the secondary driver. The particular value for the predetermined value may be varied to meet the desired criteria of a particular implementation.

In block the keys are monitored to determine if the keys were programmed to start the vehicle. The PATS controller or the PEPS controller is adapted to determine if the keys are properly programmed so that the vehicle can be started. The PATS controller or the PEPS controller is also adapted to determine if the keys correspond to either the primary or the secondary driver. In the event the keys are not programmed or valid to start the vehicle then the diagram moves to block . In the event keys are properly programmed then the diagram moves to block .

In block an error is detected. The PATS controller or the PEPS controller determines an error and may not allow the driver to start the vehicle in the event the keys are not properly programmed to the vehicle.

In block the cluster or the ESC module determines if the key was programmed as a primary key for the primary driver or if the key was programmed as a secondary key for the secondary driver. If the key is determined to be the primary key then the diagram moves to the block . If the key is determined to be the secondary key then the diagram moves to the block . If the key is determined not to be tagged to or programmed to either driver then the diagram moves to the block .

In block the vehicle resumes normal operation and allows the driver to enable disable the ESC function. The driver in this case has no administrative rights since the driver is not recognized as a primary or secondary driver.

In block the primary driver may enable disable any one or more ESC features e.g. YSC RSC or TC via the ESC control switch or the message center switch . It is generally assumed that the ESC feature defaults to ON for each new ignition cycle. For systems and in the event the ESC control switch is coupled to the cluster the cluster processes the data from the ESC control switch and sends out the signal ESC CONTROL to the ESC module . The ESC module disables enables one or more ESC features in response to the signal ESC CONTROL. In the event the ESC control switch is coupled directly to the ESC module the ESC module processes information received from the ESC control switch and enables disables the operation of one or more of the ESC features in response to the ESC control switch .

For systems and the operation is similar to systems and with the exception that the that the BCM may transmit receive the signals ESC CONTROL and or ESC STATUS to from the cluster and the ESC module . In the event the vehicle does not include the ESC switch the message center switch may be used to enable the ESC function. The cluster transmits the signal ESC CONTROL to the ESC module .

In block the cluster may allow the primary driver to give the option of enabling disabling the one or more ESC features to the secondary driver. For example the primary driver may via the cluster or the SDM select an option for allowing the secondary driver to enable disable the one or more ESC features. In the event the primary driver selects the option for allowing the secondary driver to enable disable the one or more ESC features then the diagram moves to block . In the event the primary driver prevents the secondary driver from enabling disabling the one or more features ESC then the diagram moves to block .

In block the secondary driver may enable disable the ESC operation as desired. For example the primary driver may allow the secondary driver the option of disabling the TC in the event the secondary driver experiences road conditions which may facilitate disabling TC. In one example the secondary driver may disable TC in the event the primary driver experiences ice or dirt on a road.

In block the cluster or the SDM determines if the secondary driver attempts to enable disable ESC via the ESC control switch . In the event the cluster or the SDM determines that the secondary driver attempts to enable disable the one or more ESC features via the ESC control switch the diagram moves to block . In the event the secondary driver does not attempt to enable disable the one or more ESC features the diagram moves to block .

In block the cluster or the SDM transmits a ESC driver status message. The message may be in the form of a telltale on the cluster or a message displayed via the message center display or in the SDM .

In block no display is provided to the secondary driver since the secondary driver has not attempted to enable disable the one or more ESC features.

In block the keys are monitored to determine if the keys were programmed to start the vehicle. The PATS controller or the PEPS controller is adapted to determine if the keys are valid for starting the vehicle. The PATS controller or the PEPS controller is also adapted to determine if the keys correspond to either the primary or the secondary driver. In the event the keys are not programmed or valid to start the vehicle the diagram moves to block . In the event the keys are properly programmed the diagram moves to block .

In block the PATS controller or the PEPS controller determines an error and may not allow the driver to start the vehicle in the event the keys are not programmed to the vehicle.

In block the cluster determines if the key was programmed as a primary key for the primary user or if the key was programmed as a secondary key for the secondary user. If the key is determined to be a primary key for the primary driver then the diagram moves to the block . If the key is determined to be a secondary key for the secondary driver then the diagram moves to the block . If the key is determined not to be tagged to or programmed to either driver then the diagram moves to block .

In block the primary driver may enable disable the park aid feature as desired. In one example the primary driver may enable disable the park aid via the message centers switches in the cluster . In such a case the cluster may transmit a control signal to the parking aid module to enable disable the park aid feature. Alternatively the primary driver may enable disable the park aid feature via the SDM as desired. In such a case the SDM may transmit a control signal to the parking aid module to enable disable the park aid feature. In yet another example the primary driver may enable disable the park aid feature via the park aid switch . The parking aid system generally defaults ON for each new ignition cycle. As such the primary driver may have to disable the parking aid after each ignition cycle in the event such an action is desired.

In block the cluster inhibits the parking aid disable for the secondary driver. In other words the cluster may not display a prompt to allow the secondary user to enable disable the park aid feature. Alternatively the SDM may not display the prompt to allow the secondary user to enable disable the park aid feature. The inhibit disable function is accomplished by masking the standard menu option in the cluster or the SDM .

In block the cluster or the SDM displays a driver status park aid message in place of the standard menu option which may be presented to the primary driver which generally allows the primary driver to enable disable the park aid feature. In the event the secondary driver attempts to disable the park aid feature via the park aid switch the cluster or the SDM may display the driver status park aid message.

In block the keys are monitored to determine if the keys were programmed to start the vehicle. The PATS controller or the PEPS controller is adapted to determine if the keys are valid for starting the vehicle. The PATS controller or the PEPS controller is also adapted to determine if the keys correspond to either the primary or the secondary driver. In the event the keys are not programmed or valid to start the vehicle then the diagram moves to block . In the event the keys are properly programmed then the diagram moves to block .

In block an error is detected. The PATS controller or the PEPS controller determines an error and may not allow the driver to start the vehicle in the event the keys are not programmed to the vehicle.

In block the cluster determines if the key was programmed as a primary key for the primary user or if the key was programmed as a secondary key for the secondary user. If the key is determined to be a primary key for the primary driver then the diagram moves to the block . If the key is determined to be a secondary key for the secondary driver then the diagram moves to the block . If the key is determined not to be tagged to or programmed to either driver then the diagram moves to block .

In block the primary driver may enable disable the forward collision warning FCW as desired. In one example the primary driver may enable disable the FCW feature via the message center switches in the cluster . In such a case the cluster may transmit a control signal to the FCW module to enable disable the FCW warning feature. Alternatively the primary driver may enable disable the FCW feature via the SDM as desired. In such a case the SDM may transmit a control signal to the FCW module to enable disable the FCW warning feature. In yet another example the primary driver may enable disable the FCW feature via the FCW switch . The primary driver is generally capable of separately enabling disabling the audible chime visual indicator and or the sensitivity level of the FCW feature. The FCW generally defaults to the last known state for the primary driver or previous state in previous ignition cycle for each new ignition cycle.

In block the cluster inhibits FCW disable for the secondary driver. In other words the cluster may not display a prompt to allow the secondary user to enable disable the FCW feature. Alternatively the SDM may not display the prompt to allow the secondary user to enable disable the FCW feature. The inhibit disable function is accomplished by masking the standard menu option in the cluster or the SDM .

In block the cluster or the SDM displays a driver status FCW message in place of the standard menu option which is generally presented to the primary driver which allows the primary driver to enable disable the FCW feature. If the secondary driver attempts to disable the FCW feature via the FCW switch the message center display or the SDM the cluster or the SDM displays the driver status FCW message.

In block the cluster or the SDM allows the secondary driver to adjust the FCW sensitivity. For example the cluster may provide a prompt via the message center display of the cluster to allow the secondary driver to adjust the FCW sensitivity. The secondary driver may select the FCW sensitivity via the message center switches . In such a case the cluster may transmit a control signal to the FCW module to change the sensitivity. In another example the SDM may allow the secondary driver the option of adjusting FCW sensitivity. In such a case the SDM may transmit a control signal to the FCW module to change the sensitivity. In yet another example the secondary driver may adjust the sensitivity of the FCW via the FCW switch .

In general the embodiments described herein differentiate between primary and secondary drivers so that the secondary driver may have less control over a particular safety and notification related feature than the primary driver. The embodiments of the present invention allow primary drivers to prevent secondary drivers from disabling safety and or notification related features on the vehicle.

While embodiments of the present invention have been illustrated and described it is not intended that these embodiments illustrate and describe all possible forms of the invention. Rather the words used in the specification are words of description rather than limitation and it is understood that various changes may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.

