---

title: Delta-tocotrienol treatment and prevention of pancreatic cancer
abstract: Methods are disclosed for treating neoplastic disorders, such as pancreatic cancer, using tocotrienols; namely, gamma-tocotrienol and delta tocotrienol. The antitumorogenic effects of these compounds are shown both in vitro and in vivo using several human pancreatic cancer cell lines and MIA-PACA2 human pancreatic cancer cells xenografted in nude mice. Also disclosed are methods of testing the efficacy of potential chemotherapeutic agents by measuring their effect on surrogate endpoint biomarkers, such as Ki-67 and p27. Associated compounds are also disclosed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08846653&OS=08846653&RS=08846653
owner: University of South Florida
number: 08846653
owner_city: Tampa
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121016
---
This application is a continuation in part application of U.S. application Ser. No. 11 768 373 entitled Delta Tocotrienol Treatment and Prevention of Pancreatic Cancer filed on Jun. 26 2007 which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 805 916 entitled Tocotrienol Treatment of Pancreatic Cancer filed on Jun. 27 2006 which are fully incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was made with Government support under Grant No. DAMD 17 01 1 04 awarded by the Department of Defense and NCI Grant No. 3R01CA098473 03S1. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

The pancreas is an extremely common site for the development of early neoplasms noninvasive clonal epithelial expansions. In a minority of persons these clones of cells serially acquire genetic changes that can lead to an invasive adenocarcinoma. Pancreatic cancer once invasive is almost uniformly fatal. The epithelial cells in the advanced stage of this process are very aggressive seemingly having an innate capability for metastasis that is exhibited rather soon after they invade beyond the duct structure into surrounding tissue. In order to alleviate the dismal prognosis associated with this disease it is imperative that the process of pancreatic carcinogenesis be recognized and treated prior to invasion. Chemoprevention is the administration of agents drugs biologics and nutrients to slow progression of reverse or inhibit carcinogenesis thereby lowering the risk of developing invasive or clinically significant disease. Understanding the morphology and biology of precursor lesions of invasive pancreatic cancer has therefore become an issue of paramount importance. In the last decade significant progress has been made in the recognition and appropriate classification of these precursor lesions. Mucinous cystic neoplasms MCNs intraductal papillary mucinous neoplasms IPMNs and pancreatic intraepithelial neoplasia PanIN encompass the three known morphologically distinct precursors to invasive pancreatic cancer.

A large number of case control and cohort studies have shown that there is a significant clustering of pancreatic cancer in some families. These high risk inherited pancreatic cancers are estimated to represent about 10 of pancreatic cancers. Five well known genetic syndromes with known gene defects account for approximately 20 of the families in which there is aggregation of pancreatic cancer. These syndromes include 1 BRCA2 2 familial atypical multiple mole melanoma p16 CDKN2A 3 Peutz Jeghers Syndrome 4 HNPCC and 5 familial pancreatitis. Majority of pancreatic cancers are sporadic and have evidence of widespread chromosomal instability including a high rate of translocations and deletions. Nearly all 90 preinvasive lesions have an early mutation in the K Ras protein involved in the transmission of growth factor signals. In the middle stages of preinvasive progression 90 of lesions develop inactivation of the CDKN2A p16 cyclin dependent kinase inhibitor. In later stages most preinvasive lesions also harbor mutations of the TP53 p53 and in MADH4 the common Smad protein involved in transduction of TGF and activin signals. Despite the enormous obvious benefit for chemopreventive agents in pancreatic neoplasia direct drug investigations for chemopreventive indications have been slow to emerge. A critical factor is the challenge of conducting studies that will define and demonstrate clinical benefit.

Proliferation of pancreatic cancer is regulated through aberrant oncogenic Ras signaling and its effect on cyclin kinase inhibitors such as p27. Previous studies have demonstrated that pharmacologic inhibition of one of the ras signaling pathways the Raf MEK ERK pathway elicits pancreatic cancer cell cycle arrest through induced expression of p27 Cancer Res 2005 65 11 4870 80 . Tocotrienols the chemical form of vitamin E with an unsaturated isoprenoid side chain are receiving attention as promising dietary supplements for cancer prevention and treatment.

Tocotrienols are the primary form of vitamin E in the seeds of most monocot plants such as palm and cereals such as rice and wheat. The biosynthesis of tocotrienols and tocopherols occur exclusively in photosynthetic organisms and arise from homogentisic acid. Tocotrienols arise from the condensation of homogentisic acid and geranylgeranyl diphosphate while the committed step in tocopherol synthesis is the condensation of homogentisic acid and phytyl diphosphate. Structurally tocopherols and tocotrienols share some resemblance consisting of a common chromanol head and a side chain at the C 2 position however their side chains distinguish tocopherols and tocotrienols.

While tocopherol has a saturated phytyl tail tocotrienol possesses an unsaturated isoprenoid side chain. Tocopherols and tocotrienols are further separated into individual compounds assigned by the greek letter prefixes depending on the number and position of methyl substitution on the chromanol ring. As reflected in their structural similarity tocopherols and tocotrienols are well recognized for their antioxidant effect. However tocotrienols are the group of natural vitamin E compounds with clear and consistent antitumor activity. Semisynthetic tocopherols such as tocopherol succinate have antitumor activity however the bioavailability of the intact compound after oral consumption is poor making it unsuitable for chemopreventive interventions. Structure activity studies of the proapoptotic effects of vitamin E compounds have clearly documented the importance of the unsaturated isoprenoid tail of the vitamin E compounds in their antitumor bioactivity. Furthermore these studies indicate that decreasing the number of methyl substitutions on the chromanol ring is associated with increasing antitumor potency.

In one embodiment the invention includes a method of determining the effectiveness of a chemotherapeutic agent by determining in an isolated sample a first level of a surrogate endpoint biomarker such as p27. The sample is then contacted with an experimentally effective amount of the chemotherapeutic agent being tested. After the chemotherapeutic agent has been administered a second level of the surrogate endpoint biomarker is taken and compared to the first pre treatment level. The candidate chemotherapeutic agent demonstrates effectiveness where the second post treatment level of p27 is increased to a statistically significant degree over the pre treatment and or control levels.

In another embodiment the invention provides a method of determining the effectiveness of a chemotherapeutic agent by further determining in the isolated sample a first level of a second surrogate endpoint biomarker such as Ki 67 and or p MAPK. After the chemotherapeutic agent has been administered a second level of Ki 67 and or p MAPK is taken and compared to the first pre treatment level and or a control. The candidate chemotherapeutic agent demonstrates effectiveness where the second post treatment level of Ki 67 and or p MAPK is decreased to a statistically significant degree below the pre treatment and or control levels.

Another embodiment of the invention includes a method of screening for pancreatic ductal carcinoma or a stage of pancreatic cancer in a subject by determining such as in an isolated sample the level of a biomarker namely p27. The level of the biomarker is then compared to a corresponding control level in one or more control samples. In a preferred embodiment the control samples are obtained from individuals who have been determined not to have pancreatic ductal carcinoma or a stage of pancreatic cancer.

The determination of a statistically significant similarity between the level of the biomarker in the subject and the level of the biomarker in the control sample s is indicative of the lack of pancreatic ductal carcinoma or a stage of pancreatic cancer in the subject. A statistically significant decrease in the level of p27 in the subject compared to the level of the biomarker in the control sample s indicates the presence of pancreatic ductal carcinoma or a stage of pancreatic cancer in the subject.

In an alternate embodiment the level of a second biomarker namely Ki 67 and or p MAPK is determined and compared to a control level of Ki 67 and or p MAPK in one or more control samples. A statistically significant increase between the level of Ki 67 and or p MAPK in the subject and the control sample s is indicative of pancreatic ductal carcinoma or a stage of pancreatic cancer in the subject. A statistically significant similarity in the level of Ki 67 and or p MAPK in the subject compared to the control sample s is indicative of the lack of pancreatic ductal carcinoma or a stage of pancreatic cancer in the subject.

Methods of determining the level of the biomarker in the subject and control sample s are known to the ordinary practitioner. In one embodiment as an example the level of the biomarker is determined utilizing an antibody which binds the biomarker. The sample containing the biomarker is contacted with the antibody under conditions which allow binding of the biomarker to the antibody the presence of the biomarker can then be quantified.

The invention also includes compositions useful in performing the associated methods. For example the invention includes a composition comprising a plurality of isolated proteins which bind selectively to the protein products of the associated biomarkers namely Ki 67 and or p MAPK and p27. In a preferred embodiment the isolated proteins selectively amplify complementary double stranded DNA. A composition is also included comprising a plurality of biomarker specific primers wherein each biomarker specific primer selectively amplifies double stranded DNA complementary to a unique biomarker such as Ki 67 p MAPK and p27. Alternatively the invention includes a composition comprising a plurality of isolated proteins which bind selectively to the protein products of at least two unique biomarkers wherein each unique biomarker is selected from the group consisting of Ki 67 p MAPK and p27.

Accordingly the invention includes method of treating cancer such as pancreatic ductal carcinoma or a stage of pancreatic cancer by administering to a subject a composition comprising a therapeutically effective amount of a tocotrienol. In a preferred embodiment the tocotrienol is gamma tocotrienol and or delta tocotrienol which is administered as a pharmaceutical composition. The composition of the preferred embodiment is substantially free of alpha tocotrienol beta tocotrienol and or tocopherols. Although one of ordinary skill will recognize methods of determining the appropriate dose the composition of one embodiment comprises between about 100 mg and 300 mg tocotrienol which is administered twice daily.

In the following detailed description of the preferred embodiments reference is made to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof and within which are shown by way of illustration specific embodiments by which the invention may be practiced. It is to be understood that other embodiments may be utilized and structural changes may be made without departing from the scope of the invention.

The invention provides a method utilizing tocotrienol and fluorouracil 5 FU to inhibit pancreatic tumor growth prevent malignant transformation and induce apoptosis in vitro. The antitumorigenic properties of tocotrienol in vitro are shown herein using human pancreatic ductal carcinoma cell lines MIA PaCa2 SW1990 BXPC3 from American type tissue culture ATTC Rockville Md. which were acquired grown at 70 confluency per protocol and treated with 8 tocotrienol. Immortalized human pancreatic ductal epithelial cells HPDE 6C7 were treated under identical conditions to investigate tocotrienols selective effects on pancreatic cancer cells. Results show that tocotrienol selectively inhibits transformation and proliferation.

As used herein the term biomarker refers to a gene that is differentially expressed in individuals having cancer including pancreatic cancer or a stage of pancreatic cancer as compared with those not having cancer including pancreatic or a stage of pancreatic cancer. The term biomarker can include a gene that is differentially expressed in individuals having superficial pancreatic cancer as compared with those not having pancreatic cancer.

The term biomarker specific primers as used herein refers to a set of primers which can produce double stranded DNA complementary to a portion of one or more RNA products of the biomarker of the invention. For example the primers can include a first primer which is a sequence that can selectively hybridize to RNA cDNA or EST complementary to a biomarker of the invention to create an extension product and a second primer capable of selectively hybridizing to the extension product which are used to produce double stranded DNA complementary to a biomarker of the invention.

The term primer as used herein refers to an oligonucleotide whether occurring naturally as in a purified restriction digest or produced synthetically which is capable of acting as a point of initiation of synthesis when placed under conditions in which synthesis of a primer extension product which is complementary to a nucleic acid strand is induced i.e. in the presence of nucleotides and an inducing agent such as a DNA polymerase and at a suitable temperature and pH. The primer may be either single stranded or double stranded and must be sufficiently long to prime the synthesis of the desired extension product in the presence of the inducing agent. The exact length of the primer will depend upon many factors including temperature source of primer and the method used. For example for diagnostic applications depending on the complexity of the target sequence the oligonucleotide primer typically contains 15 25 or more nucleotides although it may contain fewer nucleotides. The factors involved in determining the appropriate length of primer are readily known to one of ordinary skill in the art. In general the design and selection of primers embodied by the instant invention is according to methods that are standard and well known in the art see Dieffenbach C. W. Lowe T. M. J. Dveksler G. S. 1995 General Concepts for PCR Primer Design. In PCR Primer A Laboratory Manual Eds. Dieffenbach C. W and Dveksler G. S. Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press New York 133 155 Innis M. A. and Gelfand D. H. 1990 Optimization of PCRs. In PCR protocols A Guide to Methods and Applications Eds. Innis M. A. Gelfand D. H. Sninsky J. J and White T. J. Academic Press San Diego 3 12 Sharrocks A. D. 1994 The design of primers for PCR. In PCR Technology Current Innovations Eds. Griffin H. G. and Griffin A. M Ed. CRC Press London 5 11.

The term biomarker specific probe as used herein refers to a probe selectively and specifically hybridizes to RNA products of a unique biomarker. In one embodiment a biomarker specific probe can be a probe having a fluorophore and a quencher for example a TaqMan probe or a Molecular Beacons probe. In another embodiment a biomarker specific probe is a probe which is attached to an array and selectively and specifically hybridizes to one or more RNA products or cDNA EST or PCR products corresponding to said RNA products of a unique biomarker. A biomarker specific probe can include oligonucleotide probes and can also include longer probes e.g. 60 80 100 150 200 250 300 350 400 450 500 Nucleotides etc. .

As used herein the term probe means oligonucleotides and analogs thereof and refers to a range of chemical species that recognize polynucleotide target sequences through hydrogen bonding interactions with the nucleotide bases of the target sequences. The probe or the target sequences may be single or double stranded RNA or single or double stranded DNA or a combination of DNA and RNA bases. A probe is at least 8 nucleotides in length and less than the length of a complete gene. A probe may be 10 20 30 50 75 100 150 200 250 400 500 and up to 2000 nucleotides in length. Probes can include oligonucleotides modified so as to have a tag which is detectable by fluorescence chemiluminescence and the like. The probe can also be modified so as to have both a detectable tag and a quencher molecule for example Taqman and Molecular Beacon probes.

As used herein the term product of the biomarker or biomarker product refers to the RNA or protein which corresponds or is encoded by the biomarker i.e. is transcribed from the gene or genetic element or is translated from RNA which is transcribed from the gene or genetic element . For example in some embodiments RNA resulting from the biomarker can include one or more of the following species hnRNA mRNA and or one or more spliced variants of mRNA. In some embodiments proteins resulting from the molecular marker can include any proteins found in blood which correspond to the RNA resulting from the biomarker.

As used herein the term control or control sample in the context of this invention refers to one or more tissue nucleic acid samples and or a blood nucleic acid samples and or one or more individuals who are classified as having pancreatic cancer having one or more stages of pancreatic cancer and or superficial bladder cancer not having pancreatic cancer having one or more stages of pancreatic cancer and or superficial bladder cancer as determined by using those techniques known to a person skilled in the art. The term control or control sample can also refer to the compilation of data derived from samples of one or more individuals who have been diagnosed as normal not having pancreatic cancer having pancreatic cancer or having a stage of pancreatic cancer. As would be understood by a person skilled in the art the term control is used in the context of the experiment and will depend upon the desired comparisons. As used herein the term control in the context of screening for a prophylactic or therapeutic agent refers to a standard or reference for an assay or methodology to which other conditions can be compared.

As used herein the term effective amount refers to the amount of a compound which is sufficient to reduce or ameliorate the progression and or severity of pancreatic cancer or one or more symptoms thereof prevent the development recurrence or onset of pancreatic cancer or one or more symptoms thereof prevent the advancement of pancreatic cancer or one or more symptoms thereof or enhance or improve the prophylactic or therapeutic effect s of another therapy.

As used herein the terms chemotherapeutic agent refers to any compound s which can be used in the treatment management or amelioration of pancreatic cancer or one or more symptoms thereof.

As used herein the term therapeutically effective amount refers to that amount of a therapy e.g. a chemotherapeutic agent sufficient to result in the amelioration of pancreatic cancer or one or more symptoms thereof prevent advancement of bladder cancer cause regression of bladder cancer or to enhance or improve the therapeutic effect s of another therapy e.g. chemotherapeutic agent . As used herein the term efficacy refers to the effectiveness of a drug and or.

 Chemotherapeutic efficacy is usually measured by the clinical response of the patient who has been or is being treated with a drug and or agent. A drug is considered to have a high degree of efficacy if it achieves desired clinical results for example the reduction of the symptoms associated with pancreatic cancer a stage of pancreatic cancer or the prevention of pancreatic cancer progression as described in the present specification. The amount of drug absorbed may be used to predict a patient s response. A general rule is that as the dose of a drug is increased a greater effect is seen in the patient until a maximum desired effect is reached.

As used herein the term level of expression refers to the determination of the quantity of a given nucleic acid or protein corresponding to a gene as determined by methods known to a person skilled. In reference to RNA hnRNA mRNA or spliced variants of mRNA corresponding to a biomarker of the invention level of expression can be determined by hybridization as well as other measurements such as quantitative real time RT PCR which includes use of SYBR green TaqMan and Molecular Beacons technology. Note that as used herein the determination of differential levels of expression can include a visual inspection of differences as between the quantity of a given nucleic acid or protein for example by analyzing the northern blot or western blot.

As used herein the term selectively amplified or selective amplification refers to a process whereby one or more copies of a particular target nucleic acid sequence is selectively generated from a template nucleic acid. Selective amplification or selectively amplified is to be compared with amplification in general which can be used as a method in combination with for example random primers and an oligodT primer to amplify a population of nucleic acid sequences e.g. mRNA . Selective amplification is preferably done by the method of polymerase chain reaction Mullis and Faloona 1987 Methods Enzymol. 155 335 .

As used herein the term selectively binds in the context of proteins encompassed by the invention refers to the specific interaction of any two of a peptide a protein a polypeptide and an antibody wherein the interaction preferentially occurs as between any two of a peptide protein polypeptide and antibody preferentially as compared with any other peptide protein polypeptide and antibody. For example when the two molecules are protein molecules a structure on the first molecule recognizes and binds to a structure on the second molecule rather than to other proteins. Selective binding Selective binding as the term is used herein means that a molecule binds its specific binding partner with at least 2 fold greater affinity and preferably at least 10 fold 20 fold 50 fold 100 fold or higher affinity than it binds a non specific molecule.

SW1990 pancreatic cancer cells Panc 1 were cultured in complete DMEM media containing 10 fetal bovine serum FBS and 1 penicillin streptomycin and 1 L glutamine. BxPc 3 pancreatic cancer cells were cultured in complete RPMI media containing 10 fetal bovine serum FBS and 1 penicillin streptomycin 1 HEPES buffer 1 sodium pyruvate and 1 L glutamine. HPDE6 C7 cells were cultured in serum free keratinocyte SFM media. All cells were maintained at 37 C. in a humidified incubator with 5 CO. The cells were treated with a single 50 M dose of vehicle ethanol extracted olive oil T3 alpha alpha tocotrienol T3 beta beta tocotrienol T3 gamma gamma tocotrienol T3 delta delta tocotrienol T alpha alpha tocopherol T beta beta tocopherol TS tocopherol succinate GG geranylgeraniol SA succinic acid . A control culture i.e. only vehicle with no treatment was grown alongside the treatments for comparison. Cell viability was measured using MTS assay at preselect times of 24 48 or 72 hours after treatment. There was minimal effect from the different compositions at 24 hours as seen by Table 1.

MTS assay results of SW1990 cultures 24 hours after treatment. The MTS assay was run 9 times with the results from each run shown in the different columns. The final column shows the relative value set to the control of the 9 runs.

The tocotrienols particularly beta and delta show reduced cell viability by 48 hours as seen in Table 2. Notably the gamma and delta tocotrienol show comparable or improved anti proliferative effects as compared to the chemotherapeutic geranylgeraniol.

MTS assay results of SW1990 cultures 48 hours after treatment. The MTS assay was run 9 times with the results from each run shown in the different columns. The final column shows the relative value set to the control of the 9 runs.

By 72 hours after treatment the gamma and delta tocotrienol compositions show enhanced anti proliferative effect comparable to both tocopherol succinate and geranylgeraniol as seen in Table 3. These results are further illustrated in which represents the results for the 24 hour and 48 hour trials.

MTS assay results of SW1990 cultures 72 hours after treatment. The MTS assay was run 9 times with the results from each run shown in the different columns. The final column shows the relative value set to the control of the 9 runs.

BXPC3 cells were cultured in complete DMEM media containing 10 fetal bovine serum FBS and 1 penicillin streptomycin and 1 L glutamine. BxPc 3 pancreatic cancer cells were cultured in complete RPMI media containing 10 fetal bovine serum FBS and 1 penicillin streptomycin 1 HEPES buffer 1 sodium pyruvate and 1 L glutamine HPDE6 C7 cells were cultured in serum free keratinocyte SFM media. All cells were maintained at 37 C. in a humidified incubator with 5 CO. The cells were treated with a single 50 M dose of vehicle vehicle only may be a solvent T3 alpha alpha tocotrienol T3 beta beta tocotrienol T3 gamma gamma tocotrienol T3 delta delta tocotrienol T alpha alpha tocopherol T beta beta tocopherol TS tocopherol succinate GG geranylgeraniol SA succinic acid . A control no treatment culture was grown alongside the treatments for comparison. Cell viability was measured using MTT assay at preselect times of 48 or 120 hours after treatment. At 48 hours there is minimal effect from the different compositions as seen by Table 4.

MTT assay results of BXCPC3 cultures 48 hours after treatment. The MTT assay was run 7 times with the results from each run shown in the different columns. A blank was also tested. The final column shows the relative value set to the control of the 7 runs av average .

By 72 hours after treatment the gamma and delta tocotrienol compositions show enhanced anti proliferative effect less than tocopherol succinate but much greater than geranylgeraniol as seen in Table 5.

MTT assay results of BXPC3 cultures 120 hours 5 days after treatment. The MTT assay was run 7 times with the results from each run shown in the different columns. A blank was also tested. The final column shows the relative value set to the control of the 7 runs.

MiaPaCa2 and HPDE 6C7 cells were cultured as discussed above and treated with tocotrienol or vehicle. MIAPaCa2 cells showed a significant increase in apoptotic cells after treatment with tocotrienol as compared to vehicle or treated HPDE 6C7 cells seen in . MiaPaCa 2 BxPc 3 and SW1990 pancreatic cancer cells were treated with in varying concentrations of tocotrienol or vehicle for 24 hours. The cells were then harvested for annexin V FITC staining and analyzed by flow cytometry. MiaPaCa 2 cells show a dose dependent induction of apoptosis upon treatment with tocotrienol as seen in . Similarly BxPc 3 and SW1990 cells also displayed a dose dependent induction of apoptosis as seen in .

The cultures were also tested for apoptotic activation through activation of the caspase cascade. An aliquot of the cells were collected and cells lysed. The lysate was then run on a Western blot and cleavage of caspase 8 caspase 3 and PARP detected. Caspase 8 caspase 3 and PARP showed cleavage in a time dependent manner as seen in . Interestingly MiaPaCa 2 cells treated with tocotrienol had no significant effect on mitochondrial pro apoptotic proteins as shown by a lack of cytochrome C release or cleavage of caspase 9 seen in . caspase 9 was not cleaved in the pancreatic cancer cells. shows selective caspase 8 and 3 cleavage in several pancreatic cancer cell lines but not in HPDE 6C7 cells an immortalized pancreatic ductal epithelial cell line. shows a time dependent decrease in phospho AKT but not total AKT in the pancreatic cancer cell lines but not in the HPDE cells.

MiaPaCa 2 cells were cultured in complete DMEM media containing 10 fetal bovine serum FBS and 1 penicillin streptomycin and 1 L glutamine. BxPc 3 pancreatic cancer cells were cultured in complete RPMI media containing 10 fetal bovine serum FBS and 1 penicillin streptomycin 1 HEPES buffer 1 sodium pyruvate and 1 L glutamine HPDE6 C7 cells were cultured in serum free keratinocyte SFM media. All cells were maintained at 37 C. in a humidified incubator with 5 CO. The cells were treated with a single 50 M dose of vehicle vehicle only may be a solvent T3 alpha alpha tocotrienol T3 beta beta tocotrienol T3 gamma gamma tocotrienol T3 delta delta tocotrienol T alpha alpha tocopherol T beta beta tocopherol TS tocopherol succinate GG geranylgeraniol SA succinic acid . A control no treatment culture was grown alongside the treatments for comparison. Cell viability was measured using MTT assay at preselect times of 48 or 120 hours after treatment. At 48 hours there is minimal effect from the different compositions as seen by Table 6.

MTS assay results of MiaPaCa2 cultures 24 hours after treatment. The MTS assay was run 9 times with the results from each run shown in the different columns. The final column shows the relative value set to the control of the 9 runs.

The tocotrienols particularly beta and delta show reduced cell viability by 48 hours as seen in Table 7. Notably the beta gamma and delta tocotrienol show comparable or improved anti proliferative effects as compared to the chemotherapeutics geranylgeraniol and tocopherol succinate.

MTS assay results of MiaPaCa2 cultures 48 hours after treatment. The MTS assay was run 9 times with the results from each run shown in the different columns. The final column shows the relative value set to the control of the 9 runs.

The tocotrienols particularly beta and delta show reduced cell viability by 48 hours as seen in Table 8. Notably the gamma and delta tocotrienol show comparable or improved anti proliferative effects as compared to the chemotherapeutic geranylgeraniol. These results are further illustrated in which represents the results for the 24 hour and 48 hour trials

MTS assay results of MiaPaCa2 cultures 72 hours after treatment. The MTS assay was run 9 times with the results from each run shown in the different columns. The final column shows the relative value set to the control of the 9 runs.

MiaPaCa 2 BxPc 3 and HPDE6 C7 cells were cultured as described above and treated with a single 50 M dose of vehicle ethanol extracted olive oil T3 alpha alpha tocotrienol T3 beta beta tocotrienol T3 gamma gamma tocotrienol T3 delta delta tocotrienol T alpha alpha tocopherol T beta beta tocopherol TS tocopherol succinate GG geranylgeraniol SA succinic acid . A control culture vehicle only with no treatment was grown alongside the treatments for comparison. Cell viability was measured using MTT assay at preselect times of 48 or 120 hours after treatment. At 48 hours there is minimal effect from the different compositions as seen by Tables 9 and 10.

MTT assay results of MiaPaCa2 cultures 48 hours after treatment. The MTT assay was run 7 times with the results from each run shown in the different columns. A blank was also tested. The final column shows the relative value set to the control of the 7 runs.

MTT assay results of MiaPaCa2 cultures 120 hours 5 days after treatment. The MTT assay was run 7 times with the results from each run shown in the different columns. A blank was also tested. The final column shows the relative value set to the control of the 7 runs.

However assaying the cells at 72 hours show that beta gamma and delta tocotrienol had a concentration dependent effect on cell viability with tocotrienol exhibiting the most effective inhibition of pancreatic cancer proliferation as shown in and B.

To further identify the role of AKT in the apoptotic pathways noted in Example 2 functional overexpression of CA AKT was analyzed in Mia PaCa2 pancreatic cancer cells. MIA PaCa 2 cells were treated with pZWL vector and myrAKT a retroviral vector encoding myristoylated AKT with or without serum vehicle or tocotrienol 40 or 50 M for 24 hours with and without a 10 hour caspase 8 inhibitor pretreatment. Cells were also treated with TRAIL as a positive control. Cells were then harvested fixed permeablized and stained with trypan blue. Western blot of cell lysates from demonstrate the decrease of pAKT with 50 uM treatment of tocotrienol in MiaPaca 2 parenteral cells transfected with empty vector compared to cells overexpressing constitutively active AKT as seen in .

Overexpression of CA AKT demonstrates the role of AKT signaling and caspase 8 in tocotrienol induced cell death as seen in . The myristoylated AKT rescued tocotrienol suppression PI3K AKT signaling. The MiaPaCa 2 parental cell lines were stably transfected using constitutively active myristoylated AKT in a pWZL vector construct to generate MiaPaCa 2cells. demonstrate the rescue of tocotrienols ability to downregulate p AKT. Further AKT and caspase 8 3 pathways are involved in the mechanism by which tocotrienol induces cell death as seen in . Treatment with tocotrienol induced more cell death in the vector cells than the myr AKT cells when compared to vehicle. TRAIL induced cell death was comparable to vehicle. Lastly pretreatment with caspase 3 8 and 9 inhibitors rescued tocotrienol induced cell death.

MiaPaCa2 cells 3 10 were cultured as described in the Examples above in 96 well plates and treated with 50 M of different tocopherol or tocotrienol. The colony formation was counted showing that tocotrienol was the most effective tocotrienol in inhibiting pancreatic cancer malignant transformation as seen in .

MIA PaCa2 SW1990 BXPC3 and HPDE 6C7 cells 3 10 were cultured as described in the Examples above in 96 well plates and treated the following day with increasing concentrations of tocotrienol. shows significant inhibition of anchorage independent growth of MIA PaCa2 cells in soft agar when treated with weekly tocotrienol compared to vehicle. HPDE 6C7 cells grown in recommended media alone did not undergo transformation in soft agar as would be expected in this preneoplastic cell line and served as a negative control. Proliferation was assessed by MTT at 24 hour intervals and shows a dose dependent inhibition of proliferation as seen in . The ICfor all three pancreatic cancer cell lines was 20 25 M at 24 hours. HPDE 6C7 cells were also treated with increasing concentrations of tocotrienol for 24 hours but were relatively resistant to the antiproliferative effects of tocotrienol even at the highest concentrations as seen in taken at 24 hours after tocotrienol treatment.

MIA PaCa2 SW 1990 BXPC3 and HPDE 6C7 cells were treated with either 8 tocotrienol 20 M or vehicle for 24 hours. Cells were harvested washed twice in PBS and fixed in ethanol overnight. Pellets were washed the following day in PBS stained with propidium iodide and analyzed by flow cytometry for cell cycle phase. Results show that tocotrienol causes selective G1 cell cycle arrest and is associated with upregulation of the cyclin kinase inhibitor p27 as seen in which show significant G1 cell cycle arrest in all three pancreatic cancer cell lines treated with tocotrienol. In contrast tocotrienol had no effect on cell cycle phase in immortalized human pancreatic ductal epithelial cells HPDE 6C7 . Important regulators of the G1 cell cycle phase include members of the cyclin kinase inhibitor family. One of these members p27 appears to be important in the progression of pancreatic cancer. and B shows that siRNAp27 rescues tocotrienol induced G1 S cell cycle arrest in pancreatic cancer cells.

Cell cycle inhibition by tocotrienol was associated with altered protein expression of p27. The same 4 cell lines were treated with tocotrienol 20 M and collected at progressive time intervals. Whole cell lysates were made from cell pellets washed twice in PBS and lysed in M PER Mammalian Protein Extraction Reagent Pierce . Proteins from lysates were separated by SDS PAGE and immunoblotted for p27 BD Biosciences . shows a time dependent upregulation in p27expression in all three pancreatic cancer cell lines. In contrast a downregulation of p27is seen in HPDE 6C7 cells treated with 8 tocotrienol.

The mechanism by which tocotrienol upregulates p27protein expression was investigated using a luciferase reporter assay. Mia PaCa2 cells transfected with a p27luciferase reporter Wang et al. Activation of p27Kip1 Expression by E2F1. A negative feedback mechanism. J Biol. Chem. 2005 Apr. 1 280 13 12339 43. Epub 2005 Feb. 14 were treated with either tocotrienol 20 M or vehicle for 24 hours and luciferase activity was then measured using a luminometer. MIA PaCa2 cells treated with tocotrienol showed an increase in luciferase activity as seen in suggesting tocotrienol increases p27protein expression through transcriptional upregulation. This dynamic is further demonstrated by the rescue of tocotrienol inhibition of MiaPaCa 2 cells by siRNAp27 seen in and B.

More than 80 of pancreatic cancers demonstrate abnormal oncogenic Ras signaling. The Ras effector pathways Raf MEK ERK and PI3 kinase AKT are important for cell proliferation and survival respectively. Pancreatic cancer cell lines MIA PaCa2 SW1990 BXPC3 and HPDE 6C7 cells were treated with 8 tocotrienol 20 M and cell lysates were collected and prepared at progressive time intervals as described above. Proteins from lysates were run by SDS PAGE and immunoblotted with the following antibodies Ras p cRaf ser 338 p MEK1 2 MEK1 2 pERK 44 42 ERK 44 42 Cell Signaling and c Raf BD Transduction Laboratories . Treatment with tocotrienol selectively inhibited downstream phosphorylated targets of oncogenic Ras p cRaf p MEK and p ERK as seen in . The MIA PaCa2 and SW1990 cells were then tested for AKT inhibition. The cells were treated with tocotrienol 20 M for 24 and 48 hours and cell lysates were run by SDS PAGE and immunoblotted for p AKT and AKT Cell Signaling . Treatment with tocotrienol showed a decrease in p AKT protein levels but not AKT at 24 and 48 hours as seen in . Taken together the inhibition of downstream effectors of oncogenic Ras signaling by tocotrienol without an effect on Ras protein levels may indicate a negative regulatory role of 8 tocotrienol on the function of oncogenic Ras. The pancreatic ductal epithelial cell proliferative inhibition by tocotrienol was tested to see if it occurs through blocking aberrant signal transduction cascades. Immortalized human pancreatic ductal epithelial cells HPDE and human pancreatic ductal epithelial cells that were transformed by stable transfection of a mutated K ras oncogene HPDE K ras were used to test the. effect of tocotrienols on the proliferation of HPDE and HPDE K ras. While the tocotrienols did not affect normal human pancreatic ductal epithelial cells tocotrienol significantly inhibited human pancreatic ductal epithelial cells transformed with K ras and was the most effective tocotrienol in inhibiting the proliferation of these cells as shown in and B. By contrast immortalized HPDE 6C7 cells were resistant to the inhibitory effects of tocotrienol. Thus 8 tocotrienol shows selective chemoprevention against oncogenic or potentially oncogenic cells.

In addition to its chemopreventive effects Tocotrienol induces apoptosis in pancreatic cancer. MIA PaCa2 cells were treated with either tocotrienol or vehicle for 24 hours. Cells were collected and stained with annexin V FITC and analyzed by flow cytometry for apoptosis. A dose dependent induction of early apoptosis was seen in MIA PaCa2 cells treated with tocotrienol as seen in . MIA PaCa2 cells and HPDE 6C7 cells were treated with vehicle or tocotrienol 20 M for 24 hours then harvested and stained for TUNEL. MIA PaCa2 cells treated with tocotrienol showed significant staining for TUNEL compared to vehicle or treated HPDE 6C7 cells suggests selective induction of apoptosis in pancreatic cancer cells as seen in . Cell lysates were prepared from MIA PaCa2 cells treated with 8 tocotrienol 20 M at progressive time intervals and proteins from lysates were run by SDS PAGE and immunoblotted for biomarkers of apoptosis. shows activation of the caspase cascade as evidenced by cleavage of caspase 8 caspase 3 and PARP in a time dependent manner. Interestingly MIA PaCa2 cells treated with tocotrienol had no significant effect on mitochondrial pro apoptotic proteins as shown by a lack of cytochrome C release or cleavage of caspase 9. Thus without being bound to any specific theory induction of apoptosis by tocotrienol in pancreatic cancer cells occurs through activation of the extrinsic apoptotic pathway.

MIA PaCa2 cells 3 10 were plated in 96 well plates and treated the following day with different compositions of tocoperhol tocotrienol gemcitabine or fluorouracil. The cells were harvested 72 hours later and tested using trypan blue assay and cell death ELISA. The assays indicated that tocotrienol was the most effective compound in inducing pancreatic cancer cell death and apoptosis as shown in and B which correspond to the results seen in .

The MiaPaCa 2 cells were plated as above into 96 well plates and treated the following day with increasing concentrations of tocotrienol fluorouracil 5FU or a combination of tocotrienol and fluorouracil. The cells were collected and analyzed for cell viability using an MTT assay. Increasing concentrations of 8 tocotrienol or 5FU showed enhanced cell death which became significant at 50 M for each as seen in . By comparison the combination treatment of 8 tocotrienol and fluorouracil further enhanced cell death with significant inhibition of anchorage independent growth of MIA PaCa2 cells compared to vehicle at 40 M. Moreover the combination of 50 M tocotrienol and 50 M 5 FU approximately a 10 lower viability level compared to tocotrienol. At higher concentrations the combination of tocotrienol and 5 FU exhibited more disparity in cell viability compared to either tocotrienol or 5 FU alone. The ICfor MIA PaCa2 was 50 M at 24 hours. MIA PaCa2 cells 3 10 were cultured as described in the Examples above in 96 well plates and treated the following day with vehicle tocotrienol fluorouracil or a combination of tocotrienol and fluorouracil. As seen in both tocotrienol and fluorouracil show significant inhibition of anchorage independent growth of MIA PaCa2 cells in soft agar when treated with weekly tocotrienol compared to vehicle. Combination treatment with both 8 tocotrienol and fluorouracil exhibited further inhibition of growth which was significantly reduced from either tocotrienol or fluorouracil alone.

MIA PaCa 2 cells were treated vehicle or an anti proliferative treatment comprising 50 M tocotrienol 50 M 5 FU or 50 M tocotrienol and 50 M 5 FU for 24 hours. Cells were harvested fixed permeablized and stained with trypan blue. As seen in treatment with 5 FU showed increased cell death with 8 tocotrienol exhibiting further cell death which is significantly more than 5 FU alone. The combination of tocotrienol and 5 FU showed significantly enhanced cell death beyond either tocotrienol or 5 FU alone as seen in and B. The combination index CI depicts synergism CI1 Chou Drug combination studies and their synergy quantification using the Chou Talalay method. Cancer Res. 2010 Jan. 15 70 2 440 6 .

As treatment of pancreatic cancer cell lines with tocotrienol resulted in induction of apoptosis in vitro in vivo tests were used to confirm the results were applicable to treatment of a patient. Stable transfectants of MIA PaCa2 cells with luciferase were injected subcutaneously into nude mice. Mice were treated with either rice bran oil vehicle or tocotrienol 100 mg kg day via gavage five times per week. Tumor volumes were measured every 2 days with calibers and the rate of growth was determined weekly by measuring tumor luminescence using the IVIS 100 Xenogen system. Tumors of similar volume 100 150 mm and rate of growth based on luminescence were randomized to receive either vehicle or tocotrienol 100 mg kg day by gavage for 20 days. Luminescent measurements of control and tocotrienol groups prior to treatment and at day 10 show the rate of growth by day 10 of treatment is significantly less in the tocotrienol treatment group as seen in . Tumor size measurements show a significant reduction in tumor growth by 50 in xenografts treated with tocotrienol compared to vehicle as seen in .

Additional testing showed tocotrienol inhibits pancreatic cancer metastasis in a selective fashion as shown in with tumor regression seen at the highest dose compared to vehicle PBS. The apoptotic effect of delta tocotrienol was selective for neoplastic cells as normal pancreatic cells and in vitro immortalized human pancreatic ductal epithelial cells were not sensitive to delta tocotrienol.

Tumors were extracted on the last day of treatment and imbedded in paraffin. Immunohistochemical staining was performed to determine the effects of tocotrienol on oncogenic Ras signaling targets. and B shows inhibition of proliferation as evidenced by a decrease in Ki67 and induction of apoptosis by TUNEL in tumors from mice treated with tocotrienol as compared to tumors from the control group. Furthermore the biomarker proteins p MAPK and p AKT were decreased and p27expression was increased in tocotrienol treated tumors. Further Treatment of pancreatic cancer cell lines resulted in activation of the caspase cascade of the extrinsic pathway of apoptosis induction as evidenced by cleavage of Caspase 8 and Caspase 3 but not caspase 9. Further evidence of the lack of mitochondrial mediated apoptosis in delta tocotrienol induced apoptosis of pancreatic cancer cells was demonstrated by the lack of cytochrome C release and the absence of delta tocotrienol modulation of mitochondrial associated proteins such as Bcl 2 and BAD as seen in . These in vivo findings demonstrate reproducible alterations in cell signaling proteins shown in vitro above. Taken together these findings show Tocotrienol selectively induces apoptosis in pancreatic cancer cell via the extrinsic apoptotic pathway. Tocotrienol selectively inhibits the PI3 K AKT pathway and induces apoptosis in vivo and reduces phosphorylation levels of serine threonine kinase Akt in vitro and in vivo. This is associated with inhibition of AKT signaling targets. Moreover overexpression of myr AKT in Pancreatic Cancer cells rescues the effect Tocotrienol induces apoptosis in vitro and in vivo. This suggests that tocotrienol induces apoptosis in pancreatic cancer through activation of the caspase 8 cascade and suppression of the Akt survival pathway and shows that this micronutrient is useful for pancreatic cancer chemoprevention and treatment in vivo.

Putative cancer chemoprevention in plasma and mouse tissue by HPLC UV via vitamin E and delta tocotrienol is shown in . Tocotrienol was detectable in plasma and was significantly concentrated in the pancreas. Surprisingly tocotrienol localizes in the pancreas by a factor of 10 when compared to liver and pancreatic tumor levels. These results indicate the mechanism for tocotrienol action.

Historically the chemopreventive benefit of an agent could only be shown by a reduced cancer incidence or mortality. The use of reduced incidence or mortality as end points makes chemoprevention trials long large costly and hence impractical except for cancers that have high event rates. Indeed the only reports of chemoprevention trials for pancreatic cancer have come from subset analysis of chemoprevention trials conducted for other indications. This approach has resulted in inconclusive observations of the value of agents such as tocopherol carotene aspirin and non steroidal anti inflammatory drugs NSAIDs .

Developing early phase clinical trial methodologies for chemopreventive agents akin to the phase I and phase II studies for traditional cancer therapeutics is an important research priority to advance chemopreventive drug development in pancreatic cancer. Ideally these studies should confirm not only the potential for chemoprevention but also answer questions about optimal dose and schedule. In response to these challenges several investigators have proposed and initiated studies that focus on candidate surrogate end point biomarkers SEBs of the target lesion pathophysiology rather than on long term cancer prevention.

In SEB trials reduction in tumor incidence is replaced with evidence for reversal of one or more elements of the neoplastic phenotype such as abnormal proliferation cell survival or aberrant gene expression. Specifically these strategies focus on the effect of agents on a significant precancerous lesion intraepithelial neoplasia IEN . Whereas IEN is a validated precancer in most epithelial tissues mucinous cystic neoplasms MCNs intraductal papillary mucinous neoplasms IPMNs and pancreatic intraepithelial neoplasia PanIN are the best characterized IENs in pancreatic tissue. The progress of these lesions to invasive carcinoma is well characterized and surgical removals of these lesions are already recommended medical practice for prevention of pancreatic cancer.

Although SEB studies are well established in the setting of IENs that do not require surgical intervention such as leukoplakia of the oral mucosa or Barrett s esophagus such studies are more difficult to conduct in premalignant lesions requiring immediate surgical intervention because the index lesion is removed and is not amenable to subsequent follow up. However the need for sequential procedures to diagnose and remove invasive and preinvasive pancreatic lesions provides an opportunity for short term SEB studies. An interval of two to four weeks is standard in most practices hence offering a window within which a chemopreventive agent can be administered to evaluate the effects of the agent on SEB modulation. The experiments show the value of standard SEBs such as proliferation rate apoptosis index and the expression of proteins discussed below that are modulated by the early genetic changes in these lesions.

In one embodiment the invention includes surrogate endpoint biomarkers that were prevelant in the surgical specimens of patients who have undergone resection of invasive ductal adenocarcinomas of the pancreas IPMNs . Tocotrienol such as tocotrienol from annatto bean demonstrated selectively inhibition in human pancreatic cancer cells. The data shows that tocotrienol affects a number of molecular processes including induction of apoptosis and inhibition of tumor growth and that tocotrienol inhibits oncogenic signal transduction pathways in pancreatic neoplastic cells. Specifically tocotrienol decreases phospho Raf phospho MEK phospho ERK and phospho AKT levels in human pancreatic cancer cells. Furthermore tocotrienol induces the expression of growth inhibitory mediators such as p27and activates the apoptotic mediators caspase 8 and caspase 3.

Cases of resected pancreatic ductal carcinoma from 1986 to 2006 were collected from the Moffitt Cancer Center Tumor Registry and Pathology information system. Slides from each case were reviewed by a single pathologist for histological tumor type grade and presence of ductal precursor lesions. Histologic type and grade were assigned based on current W.H.O nomenclature. Pancreatic carcinoma precursor lesions termed pancreatic intraepithelial neoplasia PanIN were graded Ia Ib 2 and 3 according to published criteria Hruban 2001 . Based on slide review 10 representative tissue blocks were selected from ten consecutive resection specimens. Preference was given to sections showing carcinoma preferably more than one grade of carcinoma normeoplastic ducts and precursor lesions. All cases were ductal adenocarcinoma NOS or well to poorly differentiated.

The data shown in demonstrates the accuracy with which these intermediate biomarkers can be measured. Ki67 was noted to be a reliable marker of proliferation with progressive increase of a positive reaction in the nucleus from normal to intermediate to invasive carcinoma. An inverse progression was noted for TUNEL staining indicating oncogenic suppression of apoptosis in neoplastic pancreatic ductal cells. A similar inverse progression was observed in the expression of the p27 cyclin dependent kinase inhibitor protein. In contrast downstream mediators of activated oncogenic Ras signaling such as phospho MAPK and phospho AKT are increased. Remarkably all patients with invasive ductal cancer of the pancreas and IPMNs had noninvasive precursor lesions in their surgical specimens.

No cases of undifferentiated carcinoma or ductal adenocarcinoma variants were selected for this pilot study. One section was cut from each block for routine Hematoxylin and eosin stains. Sections cut for immunohistochemistry were placed on poly L lysine coated slides. Antibodies used included Ki 67 p27 and p MAPK. A TUNEL assay was used to evaluate for apoptosis Immunohistochemical studies were performed using standard immunohistochemical techniques. Slides were then scanned into the Ariol SL 50 version 3.0.70 from Applied Imaging for accurate reproducible and objective high throughput analysis. Images were reviewed by one pathologist for representative areas of carcinoma PanIN reactive ducts and non neoplastic ducts. Well differentiated and moderately differentiated carcinomas were grouped into one category of low grade for the purpose of this study. Poorly differentiated carcinoma was classified as high grade carcinoma. Additional areas of perineural invasion if present on the slide were also selected for analysis.

Results show an increase in Ki 67 and p MAPK staining as pancreatic ducts progress from non neoplastic to PanIN to invasive carcinoma. The greatest degree of staining is in high grade tumors. In contrast p27 and TUNEL staining decrease with tumor invasiveness and progression. Indicating a loss of cell cycle inhibition and induction of apoptosis.

Another embodiment of the invention includes a method of screening for pancreatic ductal carcinoma or a stage of pancreatic cancer in a subject by determining such as in an isolated sample the level of a biomarker namely p27. The level of the biomarker is then compared to a corresponding control level in one or more control samples. In a preferred embodiment the control samples are obtained from individuals who have been determined not to have pancreatic ductal carcinoma or a stage of pancreatic cancer.

The determination of a statistically significant increase between the level of the biomarker in the subject and the level of the biomarker in the control sample s is indicative of the lack of pancreatic ductal carcinoma or a stage of pancreatic cancer in the subject. A statistically significant decrease in the level of p27 in the subject compared to the level of the biomarker in the control sample s indicates the presence of pancreatic ductal carcinoma or a stage of pancreatic cancer in the subject.

In an alternate embodiment the level of a second biomarker namely Ki 67 and or p MAPK is determined and compared to a control level of Ki 67 and or p MAPK in one or more control samples. A statistically significant increase between the level of Ki 67 and or p MAPK in the subject and the control sample s is indicative of pancreatic ductal carcinoma or a stage of pancreatic cancer in the subject. A statistically significant decrease in the level of Ki 67 and or p MAPK in the subject compared to the control sample s is indicative of the lack of pancreatic ductal carcinoma or a stage of pancreatic cancer in the subject.

Methods of determining the level of the biomarker in the subject and control sample s are known to the ordinary practitioner. In one embodiment as an example the level of the biomarker is determined utilizing an antibody which binds the biomarker. The sample containing the biomarker is contacted with the antibody under conditions which allow binding of the biomarker to the antibody the presence of the biomarker can then be quantified.

The invention also includes compositions useful in performing the associated methods. For example the invention includes a composition comprising a plurality of isolated proteins which bind selectively to the protein products of the associated biomarkers namely Ki 67 and or p MAPK and p27. In a preferred embodiment the isolated proteins selectively amplify complementary double stranded DNA. A composition is also included comprising a plurality of biomarker specific primers wherein each biomarker specific primer selectively amplifies double stranded DNA complementary to a unique biomarker such as Ki 67 p MAPK and p27. Alternatively the invention includes a composition comprising a plurality of isolated proteins which bind selectively to the protein products of at least two unique biomarkers wherein each unique biomarker is selected from the group consisting of Ki 67 p MAPK and p27.

Therefore in one embodiment the invention includes a method of determining the effectiveness of a chemotherapeutic agent by determining in an isolated sample a first level of a surrogate endpoint biomarker such as p27. The sample is then contacted with an experimentally effective amount of the chemotherapeutic agent being tested. After the chemotherapeutic agent has been administered a second level of the surrogate endpoint biomarker is taken and compared to the first pre treatment level. The candidate chemotherapeutic agent demonstrates effectiveness where the second post treatment levels p27 are increased to a statistically significant degree over the pre treatment and or control levels.

In another embodiment the invention provides a method of determining the effectiveness of a chemotherapeutic agent by further determining in the isolated sample a first level of a second surrogate endpoint biomarker such as Ki 67 and or p MAPK. After the chemotherapeutic agent has been administered a second level of Ki 67 and or p MAPK is taken and compared to the first pre treatment level and or a control. The candidate chemotherapeutic agent demonstrates effectiveness where the second post treatment levels of Ki 67 and or p MAPK are decreased to a statistically significant degree below the pre treatment and or control levels.

Another embodiment of the invention includes a method of screening for pancreatic ductal carcinoma or a stage of pancreatic cancer in a subject by determining such as in an isolated sample the level of a biomarker namely p27. The level of the biomarker is then compared to a corresponding control level in one or more control samples. In a preferred embodiment the control samples are obtained from individuals who have been determined not to have pancreatic ductal carcinoma or a stage of pancreatic cancer.

The determination of a statistically significant increase between the level of the biomarker in the subject and the level of the biomarker in the control sample s is indicative of the lack of pancreatic ductal carcinoma or a stage of pancreatic cancer in the subject. A statistically significant decrease in the level of p27 in the subject compared to the level of the biomarker in the control sample s indicates the presence of pancreatic ductal carcinoma or a stage of pancreatic cancer in the subject.

In an alternate embodiment the level of a second biomarker namely Ki 67 and or p MAPK is determined and compared to a control level of Ki 67 and or p MAPK in one or more control samples. A statistically significant increase between the level of Ki 67 and or p MAPK in the subject and the control sample s is indicative of pancreatic ductal carcinoma or a stage of pancreatic cancer in the subject. A statistically significant decrease in the level of Ki 67 and or p MAPK in the subject compared to the control sample s is indicative of the lack of pancreatic ductal carcinoma or a stage of pancreatic cancer in the subject.

Methods of determining the level of the biomarker in the subject and control sample s are known to the ordinary practitioner. In one embodiment as an example the level of the biomarker is determined utilizing an antibody which binds the biomarker. The sample containing the biomarker is contacted with the antibody under conditions which allow binding of the biomarker to the antibody the presence of the biomarker can then be quantified.

The invention also includes compositions useful in performing the associated methods. For example the invention includes a composition comprising a plurality of isolated proteins which bind selectively to the protein products of the associated biomarkers namely Ki 67 and or p MAPK and p27. In a preferred embodiment the isolated proteins selectively amplify complementary double stranded DNA. A composition is also included comprising a plurality of biomarker specific primers wherein each biomarker specific primer selectively amplifies double stranded DNA complementary to a unique biomarker such as Ki 67 p MAPK and p27. Alternatively the invention includes a composition comprising a plurality of isolated proteins which bind selectively to the protein products of at least two unique biomarkers wherein each unique biomarker is selected from the group consisting of Ki 67 p MAPK and p27.

Methods of determining the levels e.g. quantifying of the biomarkers will be readily known to one of ordinary skill and include but are not limited to determining expression level level of RNA level of RNA product protein level and or protein activity level.

In the preceding specification all documents acts or information disclosed does not constitute an admission that the document act or information of any combination thereof was publicly available known to the public part of the general knowledge in the art or was known to be relevant to solve any problem at the time of priority.

The disclosures of all publications cited above are expressly incorporated herein by reference each in its entirety to the same extent as if each were incorporated by reference individually.

While there has been described and illustrated specific embodiments of a pancreatic treatment composition and method of pancreatic treatment it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that variations and modifications are possible without deviating from the broad spirit and principle of the present invention. It is also to be understood that the following claims are intended to cover all of the generic and specific features of the invention herein described and all statements of the scope of the invention which as a matter of language might be said to fall therebetween.

