---

title: Override device for a circuit breaker and methods of operating circuit breaker
abstract: An override device is described for use with a coupler of a circuit breaker. The override device comprising a cam member coupled to the coupler. The cam member comprising a slot. The override device also including an actuator coupled to the cam member and configured to move the cam member between an over-current protection position and an over-current relay override position and a push member coupled to the coupler. The slot configured to guide the push member to a first position when the actuator moves the cam member to the over-current protection position. The slot further configured to guide the push member to a second position when the actuator moves the cam member to the over-current relay override position to permit current flow through the circuit breaker.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08988175&OS=08988175&RS=08988175
owner: General Electric Company
number: 08988175
owner_city: Schenectady
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120126
---
The embodiments described herein relate generally to an override device for a circuit breaker and more particularly to methods and systems used to activate and de activate over current protection in the circuit breaker.

A circuit breaker is an automatically operated electrical switch designed to protect an electrical circuit from damage caused by overloaded or shorted circuits. A coupler mechanism of the circuit breaker can be actuated to open and close contacts to which a load is connected. Circuit breakers have an over current trip unit that provides over current protection. Conventional over current trip units use a magnetic yoke that surrounds a current carrying leader. The magnetic yoke has an anchor that is movable along an axis and a spring that applies a resistive force against movement of the anchor. Current flowing through the leader induces a magnetic force that causes the anchor to apply a force against the resistance of the spring. If the current flowing through the leader exceeds a pre determined value the magnetic force acting on the anchor is greater than the force of the spring. Thus the anchor is pulled toward the magnet which actuates a coupler to interrupt or trip the circuit. Some applications may require an override of the over current trip unit. In these situations an override device is required to permit current flow through the circuit breaker when the current exceeds the pre determined value.

In one aspect an override device is provided for use with a coupler of a circuit breaker. The override device including a cam member coupled to the coupler. The cam member including a slot. The override device also including an actuator coupled to the cam member and configured to move the cam member between an over current protection position and an over current relay override position and a push member coupled to the coupler. The slot configured to guide the push member to a first position when the actuator moves the cam member to the over current protection position. The slot further configured to guide the push member to a second position when the actuator moves the cam member to the over current relay override position to permit current flow through the circuit breaker.

In another aspect a circuit breaker is provided that includes an over current trip unit including a trip rod configured to move between a REST position and a TRIPPED position a coupler removably coupled to the over current trip unit and a cam member coupled to the coupler. The over current trip unit also including an actuator coupled to the cam member and configured to move the cam member between an over current protection position and an over current relay override position and a push member coupled to the coupler and to the cam member. The cam member configured to move the push member to a first position such that the trip rod remains spaced from the push member when the trip rod is in the TRIPPED position.

In a further aspect a method of controlling current through a circuit breaker is provided. The method includes positioning a coupler a distance from an over current trip unit the over current trip unit is configured to move between a REST position and a TRIPPED position. The method also includes moving a cam member from an over current protection position to an over current relay override position wherein current is permitted to flow through the circuit breaker when the cam is in the over current relay override position and the over current trip unit is in the TRIPPED position.

In use current enters circuit breaker through one of terminals and and exits circuit breaker through the other of terminals and . The current also passes through movable contact and stationary contact . When circuit breaker is in CLOSED position current flows unrestricted through circuit breaker and therefore through an electrical device or circuit not shown that circuit breaker is designed to protect. When circuit breaker is in OPENED position current flow is interrupted through circuit breaker and consequently through the electrical device or circuit that circuit breaker is designed to protect.

During the presence of a higher current value than the assigned current for circuit breaker over a specified period of time circuit breaker moves to OPENED position . The exposure of circuit breaker to the higher current value activates over current trip unit which causes coupler to release a latch and to facilitate movement of a lever arm with flexible connection to interrupt the current flow through circuit breaker .

Movable contact is coupled to and carried by flexible connection on lever arm and stationary contact is coupled to first terminal . Contact is movable between CLOSED position and OPENED position with respect to first terminal . Movable contact is coupled to stationary contact in CLOSED position and movable contact is de coupled from stationary contact in OPENED position .

Flexible connection is configured to electrically connect terminals and . Flexible connection is mounted on lever arm and is rotatably coupled to base . Flexible connection includes a first end coupled to movable contact and a second end coupled to second terminal . Lever arm is configured to rotate movable contact between CLOSED position and OPENED position with respect to first terminal . Second end remains coupled to second terminal as first end rotates movable contact . Latch is coupled to lever arm and is configured to release lever arm when acted upon by coupler as described herein.

Over current trip unit is coupled to second terminal and is configured to detect current from second terminal . When current exceeds a pre determined value i.e. an over current event over current trip unit interrupts or breaks current flow through circuit breaker . Over current trip unit includes a magnetic yoke a trip rod an anchor and a spring . Trip rod is positioned perpendicular to magnetic yoke and is coupled to anchor .

Spring is configured to resist downward movement of anchor . As current flows through terminals and a magnetic flux is created within magnetic yoke that attracts anchor against the force of spring . Movement of anchor causes trip rod to move and to contact and push coupler .

Rocker assembly includes a front link a rear link and a trip block . Each link and has opposing ends and and a body therebetween. A pivot pin rotatably couples front link to a front side of second leg and rotatably couples rear link to a rear side of second leg . A coupling pin couples trip block to ends of links and . In the exemplary embodiment trip block is coupled between links and . Links are configured to move trip block up and down with respect to flange . When links and move trip block upward trip block is configured to contact and rotate carrier latch .

Override device includes a cam member an actuator and a push member . Cam member includes a body having a pair of pin apertures and a fastener aperture which extend through body . Body further includes a slot extending at least partially therethrough. In one embodiment slot extends entirely through body . Slot includes a first portion a second portion and a third portion . In one embodiment second portion is angled in a first direction with respect to first portion and third portion is angled in a second direction with respect to first portion that is opposite the first direction.

Push member is spaced from trip rod shown in and is configured to rotatably couple to coupler . In one embodiment push member is configured to have two positions. In the first position trip rod contacts push member during an over current event to activate coupler . In the second position push member remains spaced from trip rod in an over current event such that coupler is not activated during the over current event. Push member includes a first end a second end and a body therebetween. A pivot pin rotatably couples second end to link ends of coupler . Push member is configured to rotate about pivot pin and between link ends . Push member further includes a drive pin coupled to first end and extending outward toward cam member . In one embodiment drive pin extends through slot . In an alternative embodiment drive pin extends at least partially into slot .

To position circuit breaker in over current protection position a user moves handle and rotates lever shown in which rotates cam member to over current protection position . In over current protection position push member is positioned such that end is spaced from trip rod and drive pin extends within slot at slot third portion . As shown in trip rod is positioned in a REST position that is spaced away from push member .

Link ends rotate about pivot pin to move trip block toward carrier latch and rotates carrier latch to release and thus enable rotation of lever arm . Lever arm rotates movable contact shown in away from first terminal shown in and positions circuit breaker in OPENED position shown in .

To position circuit breaker in over current relay override position a user moves handle and rotates lever shown in which rotates cam member to over current relay override position . Rotation of cam member moves slot . In the exemplary embodiment slot guides drive pin away from slot third portion through slot first portion and to slot second portion . Slot first portion is sized and shaped to guide drive pin to slot second portion upon rotation of lever . Drive pin rotates push member about pivot pin and away from trip rod .

As shown in when trip rod moves to TRIPPED position trip rod does not contact push member . Consequently push member does not actuate coupler and current continues to flow through circuit breaker even though current exceeds the pre determined trip value.

The embodiments described herein provide a over current relay override device for a circuit breaker. The override device can be used for new manufacture of circuit breakers or can be retro fit with existing circuit breakers. In one embodiment the override device includes a cam member configured to move between an over current protection position and an over current relay override position. The cam member reciprocates between the over current protection position and the over current relay override position to facilitate current flow through the circuit breaker when the circuit breaker is in a CLOSED position and an OPENED position. The override device provides effective circuit breaker designs to override any current controller to facilitate current flow when current exceeds a pre determined value.

A technical effect of the system described herein is that the override device includes a cam member configured to move between an over current protection position and an over current relay override position. A further technical effect is that the cam member reciprocates between the over current protection position and the override position to facilitate current flow through the circuit breaker when current exceeds a pre determined value.

Exemplary embodiments of the override device and methods of controlling current flow are described above in detail. The override device and methods are not limited to the specific embodiments described herein but rather components of the override device and or the circuit breaker and or steps of the method may be utilized independently and separately from other components and or steps described herein. For example the override device and methods may also be used in combination with other electrical systems and methods and are not limited to practice with only the circuit breaker as described herein.

Although specific features of various embodiments of the invention may be shown in some drawings and not in others this is for convenience only. In accordance with the principles of the invention any feature of a drawing may be referenced and or claimed in combination with any feature of any other drawing.

This written description uses examples to disclose the invention including the best mode and also to enable any person skilled in the art to practice the invention including making and using any layers or systems and performing any incorporated methods. The patentable scope of the invention is defined by the claims and may include other examples that occur to those skilled in the art. Such other examples are intended to be within the scope of the claims if they have structural elements that do not differ from the literal language of the claims or if they include equivalent structural elements with insubstantial differences from the literal language of the claims.

