---

title: System and method for providing configuration data such as for configuring electronic mail access
abstract: A system, method and computer-readable medium provides configuration data, such as for electronic mail access. A configuration module retrieves the configuration data from a source of configuration data, such as a user system. The configuration in one aspect could be for accessing different electronic mailboxes of a user. Data object are generated. Each data object is submitted as a distributed object module to a web service. The web service in one aspect of the invention could be for a pass-through access for configuring electronic mailboxes.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08533277&OS=08533277&RS=08533277
owner: Teamon Systems, Inc.
number: 08533277
owner_city: Wilmington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120409
---
This application is a continuation of Ser. No. 13 210 001 filed Aug. 15 2011 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 166 125 issued Apr. 24 2012 which in turn is a continuation of Ser. No. 12 795 965 filed Jun. 8 2010 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 001 202 issued Aug. 16 2011 which in turn is a continuation of Ser. No. 10 776 423 filed Feb. 11 2004 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 739 336 issued Jun. 15 2010 which is based upon prior filed provisional application Ser. No. 60 493 624 filed Aug. 8 2003 all of which are hereby incorporated herein in their entireties by reference.

This invention relates generally to the field of obtaining configuration data such as for electronic mailboxes and this invention relates to accessing automatically different electronic mail accounts using configuration information from a user system.

As electronic mail email increases in popularity it has become the norm for a user to maintain several separate mailboxes to help manage their email. Typically the user will have a mailbox dedicated to corporate email and another mailbox dedicated to personal email. Some users have additional mailboxes. For example these additional email addresses are used when registering for services on the Internet.

Managing multiple mailboxes can be challenging because the user has to check periodically each mailbox for new email. Services such as Yahoo now provide mailbox services that automatically poll a predefined list of mailboxes to determine if new email has been received. New emails that have been received in any of the polled mailboxes are retrieved into the requesting mailbox. As a result the user only has to check the requesting mailbox to determine if new email has arrived in any of the other mailboxes. This reduces the number of mailboxes that are required to be checked periodically. Other services allow a user to access their mailboxes through a plurality of devices such as but not limited to mobile phones mobile computing devices for example personal digital assistants POA s and other communications devices.

Each of the separate mailboxes has a unique set of configuration parameters such as a mailbox server name or a mailbox server address. Additionally as part of these configuration parameters each of the mailboxes may be implemented in one of a variety of mailbox protocols such as Post Office Protocol POP or Internet Message Access Protocol IMAP giving rise to differing sets of configuration parameters for each of the mailboxes. Typically the user would have to determine these configuration parameters for each of the mailboxes and configure manually a web service associated with a web server to access each of the mailboxes.

One proposal in U.S. patent application publication no. 2002 0174194 provides a single web based interface that gives the user access to a plurality of different message accounts on different message servers. This proposal allows email clients to access only a subset namely messaging of an IMAP server and requires a user to establish all configuration parameters for the IMAP server functionality. Other similar proposals requiring a user to determine and manually configure a web service for configuration parameters are disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 5 968 117 and U.S. published patent application no. 2002 0112007 where message sources are established during setup and a technical support can be called. U.S. Pat. No. 6 446 114 discloses the use of an agent that searches a user database to determine a list of messaging systems the user subscribes. The agent recalls from an application database any procedures for accessing the messaging systems and logs onto each messaging system to retrieve new messages.

The present invention is advantageous and now provides a system method and computer readable medium that uses a configuration module that can provide configuration data for a requesting web service and act as a pass through service. The web service for example could be a new internet service provider ISP that uses configuration data for accessing electronic mail from another internet service provider. The mailbox could be a gateway window into another electronic mailbox and use configuration data on the fly. The module could automatically configure access to electronic mail from a plurality of different electronic mailboxes.

In one aspect of the present invention a user system includes a plurality of different email clients each with different configuration data for accessing respective electronic mailboxes that are different from each other. A configuration module retrieves the configuration data required for accessing the different electronic mailboxes of a user. The configuration module is operative for generating data objects for each electronic mailbox relating to the configuration data. The configuration module also submits each data object as a distributed object module to a web service. The web service can be configured as a pass through or configured to access the respective electronic mailboxes associated with each data object.

In one aspect of the present invention a web service interface module formats the data objects as distributed object modules for submission to a web service. The web browser or email client accesses the web service or a targeted electronic mailbox. The user system can include a personal computer or mobile communications device.

In another aspect of the present invention the configuration module is implemented as a component object module that could be an ActiveX control. In yet another aspect of the present invention the data objects are formatted within the configuration module using an extensible mark up language XML for transmission to an XML compliant web service. The user system could include a plurality of user computing sources. The electronic mailboxes to be accessed could reside on an internet or intranet server. A method is also set forth and a computer readable medium that includes a plurality of import modules data objects and a web service interface module.

The present invention will now be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which preferred embodiments of the invention are shown. This invention may however be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein. Rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete and will fully convey the scope of the invention to those skilled in the art. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout and prime notation is used to indicate similar elements in alternative embodiments.

The web service interface module could format data objects as distributed object modules for submission to a web service. The user system could be a web browser or e mail client. A user operates with the system from his user system such as a home or work computer or wireless mobile communications device such as a hand held Blackberry unit as one non limiting example. The user system could be a plurality of systems. The user is able to access a plurality of source mailboxes using at least one of a plurality of email clients and . A web service as part of a web server allows the user to access the source mailboxes through the web service or from one or more target mailboxes . The web service or the target mailboxes may be accessed using a variety of methods known to those skilled in the art. In example embodiments the web service and the target mailboxes may be accessed using a web browser an email client or another application configured to access the web service or the target mailbox . The web browser mail client or other application for accessing the web service or target mailboxes may be resident on a variety of systems that could include but are not limited to personal computers and mobile communications devices. Although the system of the present invention will be described in relation to its use with a personal computer the system of the present invention could be used with a mobile phone personal digital assistant PDA or other communications device.

It should be understood that the use of the term web services is broad and can also refer to the many application services on web servers used by those skilled in the art. Web services usually include a combination of programming and data which are typically available from a web server for web users or the use of other web connected programs as provided by an application service provider. Typically web services use an extensible mark up language XML as a standard for formatting data to be communicated. Any type of arrangement can be used to access the web service including a peer to peer arrangement a central server or other architecture and communications. Middleware could also be used. Data formats can be standardized and data exchanged using the Extensive Mark up Language XML which is also the foundation for the Web Services Description Language WSDL . Different web servers could be used including the open source Apache or Microsoft s Internet Information Server IIS . Other web services could include Novel s web server for users of its netware operating system or the IBM family of Lotus domino servers for example for IMB s OS 390 and AS 400 customers. Naturally any web server should be able to download requests for File Transfer Protocol FTP files in a preferred embodiment.

The target mailbox or the web service requires complete configuration data for each of the source mailboxes in order to help the user access these mailboxes . The configuration data may include mailbox server name access port password username incoming mail server outgoing mail SMTP server mail server type such as IMAP and other configuration parameters that may be required to configure user access to one or more of the source mailboxes .

It should be understood that email providers are free to use any convention they choose for configuration parameters. For example many email providers may use a defacto standard convention for configuration parameters such as using a mail host name of mail. where represents the provider s e mail domain i.e. foo.com . Another example could be an address such as JohnSmith earthlink.net. The user of course may only know their email address and a password for example password. Information not known to the normal user would be POP3 server pop.earthlink.net the SMTP server smtpauth.earthlink.net the domain of earthlink.net a different user name as indicated above the FTP server ftp www.earthlink.net an access ID and DNS address for example 207.69.188.XXX or the outgoing mail SMTP server and mail server type such as IMAP.

A user is required to provide any email configuration data to the web service or to a unified target mailbox . According to one aspect of the present invention a configuration engine as a software module automatically retrieves the configuration data for one or more of the source mailboxes from at least one of the email clients and . The configuration engine transmits some or all of the configuration data to the web service allowing the web service or the target mailboxes to be configured to access one or more of the source mailboxes without requiring the user to provide the configuration data .

In an example embodiment for the present invention a number of the source mailboxes reside on servers within a corporate intranet while other source mailboxes reside within servers on the Internet . As will be apparent to those skilled in the art the mailboxes may be accessed using a variety of protocols such as POP IMAP or a proprietary mail protocol such as that used in the Microsoft Exchange server.

The user accesses the source mailboxes using one of a plurality of email clients and that are configured in the user system to access the source mailboxes . Each email client can access one or more of the source mailboxes . Mailbox configuration data that is specific to a respective email client and and the mail protocol used to access the source mailboxes is associated with each respective email client and . The email clients and and the configuration data reside on the user system . In other embodiments the email clients and and the respective configuration data could reside on a plurality of user systems and not just one system as shown for example by the second user system . In some embodiments the user system may be any one of a variety of computing devices such as a personal computer or a mobile computing or communications device including a PDA or mobile phone.

Each import agent in the import module is designed to retrieve respective configuration data from a specific type of email client and generate one or more configuration data objects . The configuration data related to a respective email client may reside in various locations. The respective import agent and retrieves any configuration data from the location specific to each email client and . In a non limiting example the import agent is designed to retrieve configuration data from the Microsoft Outlook email client . Import agent is designed to retrieve configuration data from the Microsoft Outlook Express email client. In other example embodiments import agents can be designed to retrieve configuration data from other types of email clients such as but not limited to Eudora and Netscape email clients. In further example embodiments an import agent may use a Messaging Application Programming Interface MAPI to retrieve configuration data for a MAPI compliant email client. MAPI provides an application programming interface API to ensure system independence for messaging applications. A layer of functionality could be provided between applications and any underlying messaging systems and act as messaging middleware. MAPI compliant applications would communicate through a MAPI subsystem to MAPI service providers that perform requested actions for clients and pass data back through a MAPI system to a MAPI client.

Also in a non limiting embodiment the configuration data could reside in the configuration registry of the user system . In other example embodiments the data may reside in email client specific configuration stores.

The configuration data objects generated by the import module would vary based on the protocol used to access the source mailboxes for which a mail client and is configured. In an example embodiment the Microsoft Outlook Express mail client can access source mailboxes that use the Post Office Protocol POP or Internet Mail Access Protocol IMAP . POP of course is the internet mail server protocol that provides incoming message storage. The more recent protocol is POP3. POP is operative with the Simple Mail Transfer Protocol SMTP . Any mail server must run both protocols if it is to receive store and forward messages. The SMTP protocol exchanges messages from one mail server to another and hands messages to the required POP server for an email mailbox. A POP server can receive a message and hold it until another POP server is available. The IMAP version 4 also uses the SMTP transport mechanism but it is a more flexible protocol because IMAP allows users to store mail on a mail server without downloading all new messages to a local machine. Internet mail servers of course run SMTP in either POP or IMAP and receive incoming messages from any source without identity checking. Thus mail can be selectively downloaded and read message headers reviewed hierarchical message stores built address books supported and documents linked authenticated and searched.

In this example the configuration data objects generated by the Outlook Express Import Agent can be POP objects or IMAP objects for example. In other embodiments configuration data objects could be generated for source mailboxes that use proprietary mail access protocols. As is obvious to those skilled in the art a variety of mail access protocols exist and configuration data objects could be created for some or all of these mail access protocols.

The web service interface formats the configuration data objects generated by the import module for submission to the web service . As is obvious to one skilled in the art there are a variety of formats for submitting data to the web service . In one non limiting example Extensible Mark up Language XML can be used to format the data for submission to an XML compliant web service . The web service can also be a Simple Object Access Protocol SOAP compliant service.

XML of course as an extensible mark up language is a subset of the standard generalized mark up language SGML and allows data to be stored and published on websites and richer in presentation. Custom tags can be created to define the content of documents. Common information formats can be created and the format and data shared on the internet corporate intranets and or other networks. The mark up symbols in XML are unlimited and self defining. The channel definition format CDF can describe any channel and a specific CDF file can contain data that specifies an initial web page and how frequently it is updated.

SOAP allows one program running in one kind of operating system to communicate with the program in the same or another type of operating system by using the HTTP and XML for information exchange. For example SOAP could specify how to encode an HTTP header and an XML file thus allowing one computer to call a program in another computer and pass data and while also dictating how it can return a response. SOAP is advantageous to allow data to pass through firewall servers that screen out requests other than those for known applications through a designated port. SOAP is an XML based protocol that has at least three parts including a an envelope to define a framework for describing what is in a message b a set of encoding rules for expressing application defined data types and c a convention for representing remote procedure calls and responses. For example data can be formatted using XML for submission to a web service that is SOAP compliant. For purposes of this description the end of this detailed description sets forth an example of data formatted using XML for submission to a SOAP compliant web service. In other embodiments the web service may require a proprietary format for data submission and the web service interface will format the configuration data in the proprietary format.

The configuration engine is preferably implemented using a series of instructions for execution on a computing device. In one example embodiment the configuration engine is implemented as an ActiveX control. ActiveX is operative as a Component Object Model COM and provides the framework for building software components that communicate with each other. Distributed COM DCOM allows different ActiveX components to communicate across networks such as the internet. ActiveX controls can be automatically downloaded and executed by a web browser. Distributed object applications can be built in active web pages and ActiveX controls can be downloaded to different browsers and clients. ActiveX controls can be held in a web browser as a container and distributed over the internet or corporate intranets. ActiveX controls can also manage and update web content and client systems and work closely with a user interface of a targeted operating system. It should be understood that Java Applets or similar component objects could also be used instead of ActiveX controls. It should also be understood that other object models can be used in accordance with the present invention as well as other scripting languages. It is also possible that object linking and embedding custom controls could be used. Of course it should be understood for purposes of the present invention that an object model control could also be any type of dynamic link library DLL module that runs in a container as an application program uses a component object model program interface.

In the example embodiment a user accesses a web browser to access a configuration web page provided by the web service . The user may request that the configuration engine be downloaded and executed thereby automatically retrieving configuration data to configure the web service to access source mailboxes through the target mailbox or through the web service . In other example embodiments the configuration engine may be implemented using Java and Java Applets. The example embodiments are not meant to limit the scope of the invention. As is obvious to those skilled in the art there are numerous ways in which the configuration engine may be implemented.

An example of data formatted using XML for submitting to a SOAP compliant web service is now set forth.

An exemplary hand held mobile wireless communications device that can be used in the present invention is further described in the example below with reference to . The device includes a housing a keyboard and an output device . The output device shown is a display which is preferably a full graphic LCD. Other types of output devices may alternatively be utilized. A processing device is contained within the housing and is coupled between the keyboard and the display . The processing device controls the operation of the display as well as the overall operation of the mobile device in response to actuation of keys on the keyboard by the user.

The housing may be elongated vertically or may take on other sizes and shapes including clamshell housing structures . The keyboard may include a mode selection key or other hardware or software for switching between text entry and telephony entry.

In addition to the processing device other parts of the mobile device are shown schematically in . These include a communications subsystem a short range communications subsystem the keyboard and the display along with other input output devices and as well as memory devices and various other device subsystems . The mobile device is preferably a two way RF communications device having voice and data communications capabilities. In addition the mobile device preferably has the capability to communicate with other computer systems via the Internet.

Operating system software executed by the processing device is preferably stored in a persistent store such as the flash memory but may be stored in other types of memory devices such as a read only memory ROM or similar storage element.

In addition system software specific device applications or parts thereof may be temporarily loaded into a volatile store such as the random access memory RAM . Communications signals received by the mobile device may also be stored in the RAM .

The processing device in addition to its operating system functions enables execution of software applications A N on the device . A predetermined set of applications that control basic device operations such as data and voice communications A and B may be installed on the device during manufacture. In addition a personal information manager PIM application may be installed during manufacture. The PIM is preferably capable of organizing and managing data items such as e mail calendar events voice mails appointments and task items. The PIM application is also preferably capable of sending and receiving data items via a wireless network . Preferably the PIM data items are seamlessly integrated synchronized and updated via the wireless network with the device user s corresponding data items stored or associated with a host computer system. Communication functions including data and voice communications are performed through the communications subsystem and possibly through the short range communications subsystem. The communications subsystem includes a receiver a transmitter and one or more antennas and . In addition the communications subsystem also includes a processing module such as a digital signal processor DSP and local oscillators LOs . The specific design and implementation of the communications subsystem is dependent upon the communications network in which the mobile device is intended to operate. For example a mobile device may include a communications subsystem designed to operate with the Mobitex Data TAC or General Packet Radio Service GPRS mobile data communications networks and also designed to operate with any of a variety of voice communications networks such as AMPS TDMA CDMA PCS GSM etc. Other types of data and voice networks both separate and integrated may also be utilized with the mobile device .

Network access requirements vary depending upon the type of communication system. For example in the Mobitex and DataTAC networks mobile devices are registered on the network using a unique personal identification number or PIN associated with each device. In GPRS networks however network access is associated with a subscriber or user of a device. A GPRS device therefore requires a subscriber identity module commonly referred to as a SIM card in order to operate on a GPRS network.

When required network registration or activation procedures have been completed the mobile device may send and receive communications signals over the communication network . Signals received from the communications network by the antenna are routed to the receiver which provides for signal amplification frequency down conversion filtering channel selection etc. and may also provide analog to digital conversion. Analog to digital conversion of the received signal allows the DSP to perform more complex communications functions such as demodulation and decoding. In a similar manner signals to be transmitted to the network are processed e.g. modulated and encoded by the DSP and are then provided to the transmitter for digital to analog conversion frequency up conversion filtering amplification and transmission to the communication network or networks via the antenna .

In addition to processing communications signals the DSP provides for control of the receiver and the transmitter . For example gains applied to communications signals in the receiver and transmitter may be adaptively controlled through automatic gain control algorithms implemented in the DSP .

In a data communications mode a received signal such as a text message or web page download is processed by the communications subsystem and is input to the processing device . The received signal is then further processed by the processing device for an output to the display or alternatively to some other auxiliary I O device . A device user may also compose data items such as e mail messages using the keyboard and or some other auxiliary I O device such as a touchpad a rocker switch a thumb wheel or some other type of input device. The composed data items may then be transmitted over the communications network via the communications subsystem .

In a voice communications mode overall operation of the device is substantially similar to the data communications mode except that received signals are output to a speaker and signals for transmission are generated by a microphone . Alternative voice or audio I O subsystems such as a voice message recording subsystem may also be implemented on the device . In addition the display may also be utilized in voice communications mode for example to display the identity of a calling party the duration of a voice call or other voice call related information.

The short range communications subsystem enables communication between the mobile device and other proximate systems or devices which need not necessarily be similar devices. For example the short range communications subsystem may include an infrared device and associated circuits and components or a Bluetooth communications module to provide for communication with similarly enabled systems and devices.

It will be appreciated that the above description relates to preferred embodiments by way of example only. Many variations on the systems and methods described above will be obvious to those knowledgeable in the field and such obvious variations are within the scope of the invention as described and claimed whether or not expressly described. For example automatic configuration systems and methods according to aspects of the invention may be applied to other types of data systems than mail systems and other mail clients access protocols and data formats other than those specifically described above and shown in the drawings.

Many modifications and other embodiments of the invention will come to the mind of one skilled in the art having the benefit of the teachings presented in the foregoing descriptions and the associated drawings. Therefore it is understood that the invention is not to be limited to the specific embodiments disclosed and that modifications and embodiments are intended to be included within the scope of the appended claims.

