---

title: Dynamic encoding of email addresses
abstract: Embodiments of the invention may provide the ability to convert a non-supported email address (i.e., an email address that conforms to a standard that is not supported by the receiving device) into a supported email address (e.g., an email address that conforms to a standard that is supported by the receiving device). Embodiments of the invention may perform this conversion, for example, when an email communication containing a non-internet-standard email address is to be delivered or synchronized to a mobile device that only supports standard internet addresses. Similarly, embodiments of the invention may perform this conversion when a calendar entry, a task, a contact, or other data package containing such a non-supported email address is to be delivered or synchronized to a mobile device that does not support such an email address.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09531661&OS=09531661&RS=09531661
owner: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION
number: 09531661
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120312
---
This application is a continuation of and claims priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 166 897 filed Jun. 23 2011 the contents of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The present invention relates to the field of electronic communications and addressing of electronic communications.

Electronic communications such as email communication may originate from or be received by many different systems which may adhere to many different standards protocols or formats. One set of addressing standards for internet email is defined by RFC2822 published by the Internet Engineering Task Force but there are many other addressing formats that exist and that may be used. For example Lotus Domino by IBM Corporation uses an addressing format of the form First Last City State Country which is not a valid internet address. Additionally Lotus Domino addresses may contain characters which are not permitted by RFC2822 such as double byte language Japanese Korean etc. characters and other single byte characters. Email address groups may have just a group name that may not be a valid internet address.

Mobile client devices mobile phones smart phones tablet computers etc. may be used to send receive and manage email contacts calendars and other data. Such data may be synchronized with a server or other computer to enable the data on the mobile device to mirror that of the server or other computer. While some servers may support non internet addresses such as a Lotus Domino server some types brands and or models of mobile devices may support only internet addresses and may discard any other address formats as invalid data.

In one embodiment of the invention a method for dynamic encoding of email addresses comprises determining if a data package contains an address that is not supported by a device to receive or synchronize with the data package if the data package contains an address that is not supported by the device to receive or synchronize with the data package creating a supported address corresponding to the non supported address the supported address comprising a local part and a domain the local part comprising an encoded version of the non supported address the domain comprising a non valid domain and replacing the non supported address in the data package with the created supported address.

The created supported address may further comprise a display name part containing a non encoded version of the non supported address. The non valid domain may comprise a domain that is not present in a domain name system.

In addition to the method for dynamic encoding of email addresses as described above other aspects of the present invention are directed to corresponding systems and computer program products for dynamic encoding of email addresses.

In addition to the method system and computer program product for dynamic encoding of email addresses other aspects of the present invention are directed to corresponding methods systems and computer program products for dynamic decoding of email addresses.

Embodiments of the invention may provide the ability to convert a non supported email address i.e. an email address that conforms to a standard that is not supported by the receiving device or fails to conform to any standard into a supported email address e.g. an email address that conforms to a standard that is supported by the receiving device . Embodiments of the invention may perform this conversion for example when an email communication containing a non internet standard email address is to be delivered or synchronized to a mobile device that only supports standard internet addresses. Similarly embodiments of the invention may perform this conversion when a calendar entry a task a contact or other data packages containing such a non supported email address is to be delivered or synchronized to a mobile device that does not support such an email address.

Computer and server provide processing storage and input output devices executing application programs and the like. Communications network can be part of the Internet a worldwide collection of computers networks and gateways that currently use the TCP IP suite of protocols to communicate with one another. The Internet provides a backbone of high speed data communication lines between major nodes or host computers comprising thousands of commercial government educational and other computer networks that route data and messages. However computer and server may be linked over any suitable communication network. Mobile network may be any suitable mobile communications data architecture such as a mobile telecommunications network adhering to the International Mobile Telecommunications 2000 also termed 3G or IMT Advanced also termed 4G standards in which a mobile telecommunications device e.g. cell mobile telephone such as mobile device communicates.

A standard internet email address such as one conforming to RFC2822 may comprise three parts a display name a local part and a domain. For example a standard email address may be

If either of the above non standard addresses were included e.g. as the sender s address or the recipient s address in an email message or other data package that was either sent to or synchronized to a mobile device which only supported standard addresses the mobile device would likely improperly handle or simply discard the email address. This problem also exists for email recipient group names that may not conform to a standard such as RFC2822.

When a non standard email address or group such as an email address containing a character that is not valid in RFC2822 needs to be transmitted or synchronized to a mobile device that only supports standard internet addresses embodiments of the invention may convert the non standard address into a standard valid internet address. This conversion may be performed by an email server such as server of by a computer that is originating the email message such as computer or by the mobile device receiving the email message such as mobile device . If the conversion is done by a server or computer which is sending or synchronizing the email message or other data package to the mobile device such conversion may be performed before sending or synchronizing the email message or other data package to the mobile device. If the conversion is done by the mobile device such conversion may need to be performed by a software algorithm that converts the address prior to sending the message to whichever mobile device application requires a standard address.

Embodiments of the invention may determine if an electronic message or other data package contains an address that is not supported by a device to receive or synchronize with the electronic message. If the electronic message or other data package contains only supported addresses the message may be sent or synchronized as is. If the electronic message or other data package contains an address that is not supported by the device to receive or synchronize with the electronic message embodiments of the invention may create a supported address corresponding to the non supported address and replace the non supported address with the created supported address. The supported address may for example comprise a standard internet email address which comprises a local part a domain and optionally a display name part.

The local part of the created standard address may comprise an encoded version of the non standard address. That is the local part may comprise a version of the non standard address that has been encoded from a binary format into an ASCII string format. The encoding may be performed using any suitable method that produces output that only includes characters that are valid in RFC2822. For example suitable encoding methods include but are not limited to Base64 Quoted Printable or a shared Globally Unique Identifier.

The domain of the created standard address may comprise a typically predefined non valid domain. The non valid domain should be formatted like a standard valid domain such that the mobile device recognizes the address as a standard address e.g. conforming to RFC2822 but should be an unused internet hostname to avoid potential collisions. A non valid domain may be a domain that is not present in the domain name system DNS . The non valid domain enables the messaging server or whichever device is performing the conversion to recognize a converted address such that the converted address can be converted back to the non standard address and handled appropriately by the messaging server.

It may be desirable to have a portion of the non valid domain contain some human readable text such that a user may recognize that a conversion has been performed and what system performed the conversion. For example a converted email for Lotus Notes Traveler may use a non valid domain of lotus.notes.traveler.nonascii.substitution or lnt.noninternet.sub. 

The display name part of the created standard address may comprise the non standard address i.e. a non encoded version of the non standard address . This enables the created standard address to retain some user recognizable correspondence to the original non standard address.

After the standard address has been created as described above the non standard address in the email message is replaced with the created standard address. The email message may then be sent or synchronized to the mobile device.

Embodiments of the invention may encrypt portions of the created standard address such as the local part to prevent data corruption and prevent the users of the mobile device from creating additional invalid addresses.

When synchronization takes place and a messaging server or whichever device is performing the conversion receives data email calendar data contact data etc. from a mobile device or when the server simply receives an email message from the mobile device the server may determine if the email message contains a standard address that has been converted from a non standard address. Specifically the server may determine if the standard address comprises a non valid domain indicative of a converted non standard address. If not the email or data may be processed as is. If so the server may convert the standard address back into the non standard address and replace the standard address in the email message with the non standard message. The email message may then be handled normally. Converting the standard address into the non standard address may comprise decoding the local part using whichever method was used to encode the local part initially to create the standard address. The decoded local part is the original non standard address.

As an example using the above first example non standard address a messaging server may receive an email message that included the email address

As will be appreciated by one skilled in the art aspects of the present invention may be embodied as a system method or computer program product. Accordingly aspects of the present invention may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code etc. or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may all generally be referred to herein as a circuit module or system. Furthermore aspects of the present invention may take the form of a computer program product embodied in one or more computer readable medium s having computer readable program code embodied thereon.

Any combination of one or more computer readable medium s may be utilized. The computer readable medium may be a computer readable signal medium or a computer readable storage medium. A computer readable storage medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus or device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. More specific examples a non exhaustive list of the computer readable storage medium would include the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory an optical fiber a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM an optical storage device a magnetic storage device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. In the context of this document a computer readable storage medium may be any tangible medium that can contain or store a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

A computer readable signal medium may include a propagated data signal with computer readable program code embodied therein for example in baseband or as part of a carrier wave. Such a propagated signal may take any of a variety of forms including but not limited to electro magnetic optical or any suitable combination thereof. A computer readable signal medium may be any computer readable medium that is not a computer readable storage medium and that can communicate propagate or transport a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

Program code embodied on a computer readable medium may be transmitted using any appropriate medium including but not limited to wireless wireline optical fiber cable RF etc. or any suitable combination of the foregoing.

Computer program code for carrying out operations for aspects of the present invention may be written in any combination of one or more programming languages including an object oriented programming language such as Java Smalltalk C or the like and conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages. If the service is also available to applications as a REST interface then launching applications could use a scripting language like JavaScript to access the REST interface. The program code may execute entirely on the user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through any type of network including a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider .

Aspects of the present invention are described below with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods apparatus systems and computer program products according to embodiments of the invention. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable medium that can direct a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable medium produce an article of manufacture including instructions which implement the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer other programmable apparatus or other devices to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide processes for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The flowchart and block diagrams in the Figures illustrate the architecture functionality and operation of possible implementations of systems methods and computer program products according to various embodiments of the present invention. In this regard each block in the flowchart or block diagrams may represent a module segment or portion of code which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s . It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations the functions noted in the block may occur out of the order noted in the figures. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved. It will also be noted that each block of the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration can be implemented by special purpose hardware based systems that perform the specified functions or acts or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

 Computer or computing device broadly refers to any kind of device which receives input data processes that data through computer instructions in a program and generates output data. Such computer can be a hand held device laptop or notebook computer desktop computer minicomputer mainframe server cell phone personal digital assistant other device or any combination thereof.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises and or comprising when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

The corresponding structures materials acts and equivalents of all means or step plus function elements in the claims below are intended to include any structure material or act for performing the function in combination with other claimed elements as specifically claimed. The description of the present invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description but is not intended to be exhaustive or limited to the invention in the form disclosed. Many modifications and variations will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention. The embodiment was chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the invention and the practical application and to enable others of ordinary skill in the art to understand the invention for various embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated.

