---

title: Communications using different modalities
abstract: Communications between users of different modalities are enabled by a single integrated platform that allows both the input of voice (from a telephone, for example) to be realized as text (such as an interactive text message) and allows the input of text (from the interactive text messaging application, for example) to be realized as voice (on the telephone). Real-time communication may be enabled between any permutation of any number of text devices (desktop, PDA, mobile telephone) and voice devices (mobile telephone, regular telephone, etc.). A call to a text device user may be initiated by a voice device user or vice versa.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08805688&OS=08805688&RS=08805688
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08805688
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120305
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 695 826 filed on Apr. 3 2007 the entire contents are incorporated herein by reference.

Telephony encompasses the general use of equipment to provide voice communication over a distance. Plain old telephone service or POTS is the most basic form of residential and small business telephone service. POTS became available soon after the telephone system was introduced in the late 19th century and from the standpoint of the user has existed more or less unchanged ever since. POTS services include bi directional or full duplex voice path with a limited frequency range a dial tone and ringing signal subscriber dialing operator services such as directory assistance and long distance and conference calling. During the 1970s and 1980s new network services became available due to the creation of electronic telephone exchanges and computerization. New services included voice mail caller identification call waiting reminder calls and other similar services.

Advances in digital electronics have revolutionized telephony by providing alternate means of voice communication than those provided by traditional analog telephone systems. IP Telephony is a form of telephony which uses the TCP IP protocol popularized by the Internet to transmit digitized voice data. The routing of voice conversations over the Internet or through other IP networks is also called VoIP Voice over Internet Protocol . Digital telephony was introduced to improve voice services but was subsequently found to be very useful in the creation of new network services because it can transfer data quickly over telephone lines. Computer Telephony Integration CTI enables a computer to control phone functions such as making and receiving voice fax and data calls. The Session Initiation Protocol SIP is a signaling protocol used for creating modifying and terminating sessions voice or video calls with one or more participants. Sessions include Internet telephone calls multimedia distribution and multimedia conferences. Development of the SIP protocol was motivated by the need for a signaling and call setup protocol for IP based communications that could support the call processing functions and features present in the public switched telephone network PSTN using proxy servers and user agents.

Interactive text messaging is a form of real time communication between two or more people based on typed text. Interactive text messaging differs from email in that text conversations are conducted in real time using computers connected over a network such as the Internet. A client program on a text messaging user s computer connects to an interactive text messaging service. The user types a message and the service sends the text message to the recipient. Popular interactive text messaging services on the Internet include .NET Messenger Service AOL Instant Messenger Excite Pal Gadu Gadu Google Talk iChat ICQ Jabber Qnext QQ Meetro Skype Trillian Yahoo Messenger and Rediff Bol Instant Messenger.

All the advances in telephony and interactive text messaging however have not solved some very basic problems associated with actually reaching a desired party. Communication in real time is currently impossible between people who have access only to devices of different modalities. For example when one user only has access to an ordinary voice only telephone and another only has access to a text only Instant Messaging client there is no way for the two users to communicate in real time. The below addresses these and other problems.

Communications between users of different modalities is enabled by a single integrated platform that allows both the input of voice from a telephone for example to be realized as text as an interactive text message and allows the input of text from the interactive text messaging application to be realized as voice on the telephone . Real time communication may be enabled between any permutation of any number of text devices desktop PDA mobile telephone and voice devices mobile telephone regular telephone etc. . A call to a text device user may be initiated by a voice device user or vice versa.

Currently communication in real time is impossible between people who only have access to devices of different modalities. One example is when one user only has a voice only telephone and the other user only has access to an interactive text messaging service as frequently occurs for example when the interactive text messaging service user is in a meeting and a telephone user tries to call him . A VoIM Gateway Voice over IM is a platform which enables real time communication between users of different modalities. The platform allows both the input of voice from the telephone to be realized as text in the interactive text messaging client and the input of text from the text messaging client to be realized as voice on the telephone . While described in terms of an interactive text messaging application such as IM other forms of text messaging utilizing SMS e.g. to cellular telephones HTML email etc. are contemplated. Any permutation of text devices desktop PDA mobile telephone having text capabilities etc. and voice devices mobile telephone standard telephone etc. may be used. Embodiments of the invention may permit multiple user scenarios i.e. more than two users different originating devices different speech recognition grammars and aspects of Voice User Interface VUI interacting with a computer through a voice speech platform in order to initiate an automated service or process multimedia devices e.g. streaming video with audio converted into text . Calls may be originated either from the voice only client e.g. a telephone user contacts an IM user or from the text only client e.g. the interactive text messaging client user originates a call to a voice only user . A single VoIM gateway converts input from one modality into another from voice to text and from text to voice . Grammars and language models for the speech recognition component may be optimized for an interactive text messaging or other real time text input interaction.

With respect to calls originated from a voice only client a robust voice user interface called herein the Personal Virtual Assistant or PVA may be hosted on an enterprise communications server operating in real time. The communications server may integrate with a number of known corporate telephone systems but can process any type of voice channel. The PVA can provide the following services caller identification mixed initiative multimodal call screening and negotiation personalized call routing structured message taking cross modal messaging voice dialing and voice enabled message access and configuration. The PVA can communicate with the caller classify the call and handle the disposition of the incoming call.

When a caller dials a callee s telephone number using a voice only device and the callee is a PVA user in some embodiments of the invention the PVA application answers the caller s call and prompts the caller to identify himself herself. An automated speech recognition component is used to process the caller s voice input. The caller may be asked the relative importance of the call and other information such as the subject of the call and so on. An indication that the callee s PVA is trying to reach the callee may be sent to the callee. In some embodiments of the invention the indication is sent in the form of a toast a small notification window that pops up on the screen typically although not necessarily in the lower right side of the desktop. The toast indicates an incoming email or that a member of a contacts list is available. The toast remains on the screen briefly and spontaneously disappears. The indication may include one or more of the following the name of the caller the relative importance of the call the subject of the call or other information. In response to instructions received from direct interaction of the PVA with the callee or to default instructions stored in a rules database generic or caller specific the PVA may forward the call to a specific voice capable destination generate a structured voicemail send a text alert to a suitable PVA user client establish a dialog including a potentially cross modal dialog between a voice only caller and a text only PVA user client or transfer the call to another user. The PVA may support dialing from desktop and remote phones.

For example in a greeting phase of call negotiation a call may be answered and the PVA may issue a user configurable greeting perhaps giving the caller an indication that the caller is interacting with an automated system e.g. Hi this is Bill s Virtual Assistant please speak clearly. . In the next phase of call negotiation the caller may be identified. The PVA may interact with the caller to identify the caller either as a recognized member of the callee s Contacts list or as someone who is not recognized that is who is not a member of the callee s Contacts list. An initial guess may be derived from the call s ANI Automatic Number Identification is a feature of telephony intelligent network services which permits subscribers to display or capture the telephone numbers of calling parties however the ANI is often not available not recognized i.e. not in the Contacts list ambiguous associated with multiple contacts or misleading e.g. the caller is using a telephone belonging to someone else . The PVA can prompt the caller to identify himself herself and confirm the elicited or ANI derived identity enabling caller specific handling logic to be performed instead of caller independent handling logic which is the norm today.

Before alerting the callee to the call the PVA may ask the caller to provide information which enables the PVA to characterize the call phase three of call negotiation . For example a caller from a specific contact group e.g. contact group is Family Supervisor or Customer etc. may be able to provide information so that the call is handled in a particular way by the PVA. For example a member of a Family or Supervisor contact group may be extended the opportunity to say the call is urgent to facilitate special call handling. In the fourth phase of call negotiation the PVA may play an announcement that was specified by the PVA user the callee in this example to the caller such as Let me see if Bill is at his desk and may use a combination of caller identity caller characterization callee presence and configured rules to attempt to alert the callee to the call and to obtain the callee s instructions for handling the call. For example if the callee s presence indicates that the callee is at his her desk the callee s desktop phone may ring and a desktop alert such as a popup on the callee s computer can present the incoming call information with application call handling choices e.g. Bill Larry is calling and says it is urgent. Should I 1 Take a message 2 Take a message and say you will call back in N minutes 3 Transfer call to Cellular Telephone . The callee has the option to pick up the desktop telephone to take the call directly or can communicate with the PVA via the popup or other channels. If the callee is not at his desk but can be contacted by alternate means such as by an interactive text channel such as Instant Messenger IM or the like a similar alert and list of options can be sent via the interactive text channel through which the election may be made. If the callee is already on the desktop telephone but is not online i.e. not able to receive a desktop alert the callee can respond to a call waiting ring by pressing a key which causes the PVA to play an audible message that includes the call information so that the callee can indicate how the call should be handled before returning to the original call i.e. the call the callee was taking when he received the call waiting ring . In each of these cases the PVA may wait for the callee election with a suitable timeout period after which the PVA continues without callee election before proceeding to the next phase of call negotiation. The next phase of call negotiation is caller election.

In the caller election phase the PVA may present a list of call handling options to the caller. The list may include one or more options. If there is only one available option the PVA may inform the caller before proceeding without waiting for caller input e.g. Bill cannot take any calls right now but he would like you to leave a message and he will call you back in 30 minutes. and proceed to the voicemail prompt or alternatively the PVA may merely proceed. If there are two or more choices the PVA may prompt the caller to select one of the choices e.g. Bill is away from his desk. Would you like me to forward your call to his cell take a message and send him an alert or set up an interactive text session with him . If one of the callee specified ways to handle the call is to transfer the call the PVA may include the name of the destination user if there is only one specified on the transfer list . . . or be transferred to name or if there are multiple destination users specified on the transfer list the PVA may give a generic prompt such as . . . or be transferred to someone who can help you. The destination user may be a PVA user or may alternatively be someone who is not a PVA user. The degree of access offered to the caller may reflect static rules in place for that particular caller and or may depend on caller specific instructions provided by the alerted callee to the PVA. Default rules may stipulate that leaving a message is always an option.

In some embodiments of the invention the PVA may learn from interactions with callers. For example if a caller has elected to use cross modal communications for the past N times may be specifyable by the PVA user when calling a callee this mode of communication may become the default for that caller callee pair. Other alternatives may be removed unless the PVA user or one of the PVA users in the case that both the caller and the callee are PVA users elects to change the mode of communication for the caller callee pair.

Call handling includes call forwarding saving a structured voicemail and sending an alert instantiating an instant cross modal voice messenger session with the callee and call transfer. Voice only calls may be forwarded to voice capable destinations such as to the callee s mobile telephone or other communications device. A text alert providing envelope information information about when the call was received may be delivered to one or more of the callee s available text mode clients. The caller may be guided through the process of leaving a structured voicemail so that voicemail waiting alerts are able to provide more information to the callee. In addition to the identity and call characterization described above the caller may be prompted for the general topic of the call e.g. What is this regarding and the best time and means for the callee to reply. The PVA may also prompt the caller to record a free format body of the message. The structured information may be included in any text mode or voicemail waiting alert which the PVA sends to the callee facilitating timely and efficient message retrieval.

A cross modal instant voice messenger conversation may be mediated by the PVA between a voice only caller and a text only callee the callee is a PVA user . The PVA may prompt the caller to dictate a message which may then be converted to text using a large vocabulary recognizer that has been tuned to an interactive text messaging service such as Instant Messenger. The text of the caller s message may be sent to the callee s interactive text messaging service e.g. to an IM client and the callee s reply may be played back to the caller using the PVA s text to speech TTS engine. Thus the callee is able to chat using an interactive text messaging service with a voice only caller in situations where it would be disruptive or otherwise undesirable to accept a voice call and engage in an audible conversation.

Call transfer provides preferential call handling for priority calls when the callee is unable to take the call directly or does not want a caller to leave a message perhaps because the callee will be out of touch for an extended period of time . The PVA may be configured to provide the caller with a list of alternative callees to whom the caller may be directed. The original callee may have recorded an explanatory prompt I will be out of the office until May 15th. For questions about release schedules ask for Ray for questions about features ask for Chris . . . How may I direct your call 

Voice enabled message retrieval may include a robust interface for voice only message retrieval including multi modal support. A PVA user may call the PVA using an SIP telephone or communications device and use spoken queries to get sorted and filtered lists of message summaries delivered to the user s device. A user interface on the device may permit rapid viewing and selection and can play back the selected message in voice mode.

The PVA may provide voice dialing and conferencing support from both the desktop telephone and from remote dial in voice enabling call related functions accessible from the desktop telephone keypad or a desktop Communicator client. The callee may have full access to his contact list. The PVA may support voice commands such as Call Larry Call Larry in his office Call Larry on his cellular telephone and conference in Tal and Keep trying Larry . For the latter case the PVA may call the callee back when Larry answers the call. While in a call the PVA user may access relevant voice commands such as transfer conferencing etc. by pressing a key on the device.

With respect to a call originated from the interactive text messaging user to a voice only user a user logged into an interactive text messaging client may send a text message via a network such as the Internet to the VoIM gateway. The VoIM gateway may convert the text message to a voice message and may select an appropriate pathway VoIP Gateway or VoIP Telephone depending on the recipient device. If the VoIP gateway is chosen the VoIP gateway may forward the message to a PSTN telephone.

Although not required the invention can be implemented via an application programming interface API for use by a developer and or included within the network browsing software which will be described in the general context of computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by one or more computers such as client workstations servers or other devices. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures and the like that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Typically the functionality of the program modules may be combined or distributed as desired in various embodiments. Moreover those skilled in the art will appreciate that the invention may be practiced with other computer system configurations. Other well known computing systems environments and or configurations that may be suitable for use with the invention include but are not limited to personal computers PCs automated teller machines server computers hand held or laptop devices multi processor systems microprocessor based systems programmable consumer electronics network PCs minicomputers mainframe computers and the like. The invention may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network or other data transmission medium. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices.

With reference to an exemplary system for implementing the invention includes a general purpose computing device in the form of a computer . Components of computer may include but are not limited to a processing unit a system memory and a system bus that couples various system components including the system memory to the processing unit . The system bus may be any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus and a local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. By way of example and not limitation such architectures include Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus Enhanced ISA EISA bus Video Electronics Standards Association VESA local bus and Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus also known as Mezzanine bus .

Computer typically includes a variety of computer readable media. Computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by computer and includes both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and non removable media. By way of example and not limitation computer readable media may comprise computer storage media and communication media. Computer storage media includes both volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CDROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by computer . Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media includes wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media. Combinations of any of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

The system memory includes computer storage media in the form of volatile and or nonvolatile memory such as read only memory ROM and random access memory RAM . A basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within computer such as during start up is typically stored in ROM . RAM typically contains data and or program modules that are immediately accessible to and or presently being operated on by processing unit . By way of example and not limitation illustrates operating system application programs other program modules and program data .

The computer may also include other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media. By way of example only illustrates a hard disk drive that reads from or writes to non removable nonvolatile magnetic media a magnetic disk drive that reads from or writes to a removable nonvolatile magnetic disk and an optical disk drive that reads from or writes to a removable nonvolatile optical disk such as a CD ROM or other optical media. Other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media that can be used in the exemplary operating environment include but are not limited to magnetic tape cassettes flash memory cards digital versatile disks digital video tape solid state RAM solid state ROM and the like. The hard disk drive is typically connected to the system bus through a non removable memory interface such as interface and magnetic disk drive and optical disk drive are typically connected to the system bus by a removable memory interface such as interface .

The drives and their associated computer storage media discussed above and illustrated in provide storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computer . In for example hard disk drive is illustrated as storing operating system application programs other program modules and program data . Note that these components can either be the same as or different from operating system application programs other program modules and program data . Operating system application programs other program modules and program data are given different numbers here to illustrate that at a minimum they are different copies. A user may enter commands and information into the computer through input devices such as a keyboard and pointing device commonly referred to as a mouse trackball or touch pad. Other input devices not shown may include a microphone joystick game pad satellite dish scanner or the like. These and other input devices are often connected to the processing unit through a user input interface that is coupled to the system bus but may be connected by other interface and bus structures such as a parallel port game port or a universal serial bus USB .

A monitor or other type of display device is also connected to the system bus via an interface such as a video interface . A graphics interface such as Northbridge may also be connected to the system bus . Northbridge is a chipset that communicates with the CPU or host processing unit and assumes responsibility for accelerated graphics port AGP communications. One or more graphics processing units GPUs may communicate with graphics interface . In this regard GPUs generally include on chip memory storage such as register storage and GPUs communicate with a video memory . GPUs however are but one example of a coprocessor and thus a variety of coprocessing devices may be included in computer . A monitor or other type of display device is also connected to the system bus via an interface such as a video interface which may in turn communicate with video memory . In addition to monitor computers may also include other peripheral output devices such as speakers and printer which may be connected through an output peripheral interface .

The computer may operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers such as a remote computer . The remote computer may be a personal computer a server a router a network PC a peer device or other common network node and typically includes many or all of the elements described above relative to the computer although only a memory storage device has been illustrated in . The logical connections depicted in include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN but may also include other networks. Such networking environments are commonplace in offices enterprise wide computer networks intranets and the Internet.

When used in a LAN networking environment the computer is connected to the LAN through a network interface or adapter . When used in a WAN networking environment the computer typically includes a modem or other means for establishing communications over the WAN such as the Internet. The modem which may be internal or external may be connected to the system bus via the user input interface or other appropriate mechanism. In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to the computer or portions thereof may be stored in the remote memory storage device. By way of example and not limitation illustrates remote application programs as residing on memory device . It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are exemplary and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers may be used.

One of ordinary skill in the art can appreciate that a computer or other client device can be deployed as part of a computer network. In this regard the present invention pertains to any computer system having any number of memory or storage units and any number of applications and processes occurring across any number of storage units or volumes. The present invention may apply to an environment with server computers and client computers deployed in a network environment having remote or local storage. The present invention may also apply to a standalone computing device having programming language functionality interpretation and execution capabilities.

While caller may or may not be a PVA user in callee is a PVA user. In response to receiving caller s call to PVA user a dialog with PVA may be initiated by PVA . During phase one the greeting phase PVA may greet the caller and optionally indicate that the PVA is an automated speech processor. Suppose for example that caller Larry calls PVA user Bill s desktop telephone by dialing Bill s telephone number. After a specified number of rings the PVA may answer the call and greet the caller e.g. PVA Hi this is Bill s Virtual Assistant please speak clearly. 

PVA may receive information from the IP network concerning the identity of the caller. For example the ANI feature of the IP network may deliver the telephone number of the telephone Larry is using to PVA . The PVA may examine Contact list for the number received from the network. If the received number is found in the Contact list and optionally is unique the PVA may attempt to confirm that the caller is the person associated with the number e.g. PVA Is this Larry calling If this is Larry calling he may confirm his identity e.g. Larry Yes . Upon receiving voice input from caller a speech recognition component of PVA is activated. The dialog that collects the information from the caller may be open ended where the speech recognizer attempts to make a best guess at name topic etc. based on global grammars or it may implement categories for selection based on predefined menus such as PVA What is the topic Please say work related non work related or confidential enabling much simpler grammars to be used. The dialog may be enhanced by sharing the presence of the callee with the caller if the callee s rules allow this information to be shared with the caller. In this case an extra step may be added that tells the caller that the callee is wherever the callee is before continuing on. When the identity of the caller is established processing continues to the next phase negotiation . If the identity of the caller has not yet been established PVA may attempt to confirm identity. For example suppose it is someone else perhaps using Larry s phone the caller may identify himself e.g. No this is Tal on Larry s telephone. The PVA may check for the received name e.g. Tal in the Contact list . If the received name is found in the Contact list and is unique the PVA may determine that identity has been confirmed and go on to the negotiation phase. The PVA may determine that the received name is not unique and may reprompt for identity. If no match can be found in the Contact List PVA may conclude that the caller is unknown record the non Contact name and continue on to the negotiation phase. If no ANI information is available PVA may prompt for identity e.g. May I ask who is calling and then follow the rest of the procedure described above. If during the above described process the name is not recognized with a high degree of confidence the PVA may reprompt e.g. PVA I did not understand you please repeat your name 

During the classification portion of the negotiation phase the urgency of the call may be elicited from the caller. For example the PVA may ask Is your call urgent and use the received information to classify the call to determine how to handle the call as described more fully below. In some embodiments of the invention members of the Contacts list can be grouped e.g. Florence is a member of the Family group Larry is a member of the Supervisor group etc. and only some groups may be prompted for urgency information based on user specified rules.

During a user alert and election portion of the negotiation phase the location or presence of the callee PVA user is determined. If the PVA user is at his desk logged into his computer and not using the telephone when the call is received PVA may cause the telephone to ring and display a popup message on the PVA user s computer screen. An example of a popup message may be PVA name of caller is calling and he says it is urgent. PVA may provide a list of options including but not limited to PVA 1 Take Message will reply in N minutes 2 Transfer to name specified in user rules . The PVA user in some embodiments of the invention has one or more of the following options Case 1 The callee picks up the telephone to talk to the caller. Case 2 The callee enters a number e.g. types 20 into the Take Message edit box and selects it. In response PVA may proceed to take a structured voicemail from the caller and tells the caller that the callee will return his call within the callee specified in the example within 20 minutes reply time. Case 3 The callee leaves the edit box empty and selects the Take Message option. In response PVA may proceed to take a structured voicemail and does not specify a reply time to the caller. Case 4 The callee selects Option 2 Transfer call . In response PVA may proceed to the Call Transfer function with destination being the destination specified by the callee.

If the PVA user is at his her desk on the telephone but not logged onto his computer the PVA may ring the telephone with a special ring denoting that there is a second incoming call call waiting ring . The callee PVA user may put his first caller on hold. In response the PVA may indicate to the callee that he has a call from the confirmed identity caller and indicate if collected the urgency classification of the call e.g. PVA name of caller is calling and he says it is urgent. The callee may respond as described above. If the PVA user is not at his her desk but is logged onto his computer PVA may display a popup on the callee s computer screen such as name of caller is calling and he says it is urgent. Should I 1 Forward his call to your mobile 2 Take a message and tell him you will call back in N minutes 3 Transfer the call to person specified by PVA user Case 1 If the callee selects option 1 PVA may proceed to Forward Call processing. In response to this selection PVA may forward the call to the PVA user s mobile telephone. Case 2 The callee selects Option 2 or 3. In response to these selections PVA may proceed to take a structured voicemail or perform Call Transfer processing respectively. If the PVA user is not at his her desk is not logged onto his computer and receives an urgent call the PVA may discover via presence processing that the callee cannot be alerted via the PVA and may proceed to the Caller Election phase.

If the caller is limited to leaving a structured voicemail by the user specified rules the PVA may tell the caller that the callee is not at his desk and that the caller can leave a message e.g. PVA I m sorry but callee name is not at his desk so I ll take a message for him and he will get back to you as soon as he can. If the caller is permitted by the user specified rules to elect to forward a call the PVA can indicate to the caller that his call can either be forwarded to the callee s mobile communications device or he can be sent an alert e.g. PVA I m sorry name of caller but name of callee is not at his desk. Would you like me to forward your call to his mobile or take a message here and send him an alert Case 1 If the caller opts to leave a message the caller may say so and PVA may proceed to structured voicemail handling. Case 2 If the caller opts to forward the call the caller may say so e.g. Caller Please forward the call. and PVA may proceed to forward the call to callee s mobile number.

PVA may also dispose of a call by transferring the call. PVA may transfer a call to a single number or may dispose of the call by selecting from a list of numbers to which to transfer the call. Suppose for example that the PVA user the callee will be out of the office for some period of time and wants the PVA to dispose of the call based on the subject matter of the incoming call. When a call comes in to the callee s number PVA may play a prompt recorded by the PVA user for this purpose e.g. Bill I m out of the office until June 15. For schedule questions contact Ray. For beta questions speak with Alex. For M4 questions talk to Chris. For all other issues please ask to speak with Kathleen or leave a message which I will get when I return. How shall I direct your call PVA may process the caller s reply and transfer the call based on the recognized name or key word in the caller s response e.g. Larry Oh um put me through to Ray. In response to detecting the word Ray PVA may respond with a message such as PVA Please wait while I transfer your call to Ray. The person to whom the message is transferred may be a PVA user and thus the call transferred to Ray may itself be handled by a PVA. PVA Larry please wait while I establish an IVM session with Bill . . . OK please speak your message clearly. 

Thus while callee may or may not be a PVA user in caller is a PVA user. In response to receiving caller s call to callee a dialog with PVA may be initiated by PVA .

The various techniques described herein may be implemented in connection with hardware or software or where appropriate with a combination of both. Thus the methods and apparatus of the present invention or certain aspects or portions thereof may take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the invention. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device will generally include a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. One or more programs that may utilize the creation and or implementation of domain specific programming models aspects of the present invention e.g. through the use of a data processing API or the like are preferably implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s can be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and combined with hardware implementations.

While the present invention has been described in connection with the preferred embodiments of the various figures it is to be understood that other similar embodiments may be used or modifications and additions may be made to the described embodiments for performing the same function of the present invention without deviating therefrom. Therefore the present invention should not be limited to any single embodiment but rather should be construed in breadth and scope in accordance with the appended claims.

