---

title: Patron service system and method
abstract: A method of using a wireless patron unit within a venue, and within a vicinity of the venue, includes providing at least one patron with a wireless patron unit having a touch-screen display, which has stored therein at least one venue specific application program. The method also includes connecting the wireless patron unit to a server, entering patron-related into the wireless patron unit, and displaying patron-related information on the patron unit. The method further includes entering a patron order for at least one item or service provided by the venue, displaying the patron order and a location of the wireless patron unit, and providing a current status of the patron order on the touch-screen display of the wireless patron unit.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08682729&OS=08682729&RS=08682729
owner: 
number: 08682729
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20120706
---
The present application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 073 368 filed on Mar. 28 2011 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 665 525 filed on Sep. 19 2003 and issued as U.S. Pat. No. 7 945 477 on May 17 2011 and which claims benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 412 863 filed on Sep. 23 2002. The contents of U.S. patent application Ser. Nos. 10 665 525 and 13 073 368 and U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 412 863 are expressly incorporated by reference herein in their entireties.

This invention relates to systems and methods for providing services to patrons at resorts stadiums arenas and other venues.

The world s leading luxury and upscale hotels resorts cruise lines vacation destinations and other public venues often differentiate themselves in a competitive market by promising and attempting to deliver exceptional service and convenience to their patrons such as guests customers spectators visitors clientele and other clients hereinafter referred to collectively as patrons . Successfully delivering on the promise of outstanding service not only attracts repeat business but can also generate greater revenue and increased profitability. At the same time patrons that these properties attract have elevated expectations of service including increased levels of attention convenience speed and control. The service delivery challenge for the resort is to attend quickly to patrons when the require service to fulfill patrons requests in a timely and efficient manner and finally to locate a patron for delivery of their order.

Despite their high expectations patrons at luxury and upscale resorts currently face several inconveniences in ordering food beverages and other amenities and services while on the beach at the pool and in other areas of the property. In many instances when patrons desire to place an order they cannot find a staff member such as a server a runner a waiter a waitress beach attendant recreational staff an employee and other personnel hereinafter referred to collectively as a staff member of an establishment in the vicinity. Often the patron is unable to attract the attention of the staff member or the staff member may be busy attending to another patron. Additional problems arise once the order is taken as the staff member may proceed to take additional orders before submitting initial patron s orders for fulfillment. The result is a delay in entering the initial orders to the resort s computer system assuming there is a basic computer system and thus delaying preparation of the order as well.

If a patron becomes tired of waiting for a staff member to take the order the alternative is to walk sometimes for great distances to place an order for food beverages or services. Not only are patrons inconvenienced but they also face the risks inherent in leaving children or personal belongings unsupervised and unprotected on the beach pool deck or other resort location.

Once the order is prepared and ready for delivery to the patron it can be a challenge for the staff member to remember where the patron is located or to find where the patron has relocated. Oftentimes the person who took the order is often not the same person who delivers the order or the patron has moved and is not seated where the original order was taken. The result is that patrons experience further delay in having their orders delivered.

Once a the item such as a towel beverage food has been delivered to the patron and the staff member departs any problem with the order i.e. missing utensils or condiments erroneous or ill prepared items etc. requires the patron to chase after the staff member walk to a service area or wait for the staff member to return.

Additionally since a staff member has no way to know if a patron is interested in ordering food or beverages staff members may periodically check in with the patron as they circulate on the beach pool or other locations which sometimes results in annoying disturbances for the patron if the patron has no interest in placing an order.

Furthermore most resorts do not offer patrons the ability to purchase sundry items reserve a tee time tennis court jet ski or spa related appointments while seated at the beach or pool.

In an attempt to address some of the aforementioned problems a limited number of hotels are deploying centrally located kiosks. Unfortunately these systems require patrons to leave their seats and walk some distance to place an order at a kiosk location. Again not only are the patrons inconvenienced but they also face the risks inherent in leaving children or personal belongings unsupervised and unprotected on the beach pool deck or other resort location when having to order from the kiosk location.

Additionally kiosks do not enable the staff member to locate the patron for delivery of the order thus requiring additional effort and further inconvenience to the patron if the patron must retrieve the order himself. Furthermore in many instances there may be a line of patrons waiting to use a particular kiosk creating a further inconvenient experience for patrons when they attempt to place an order for themselves.

Some manufactures have introduced POS point of sale systems for use by staff at restaurants which may include wireless handheld terminals as an extension of the POS systems. These handheld terminals enable staff to input and manage patron orders at a distance. Unfortunately these devices typically only allow the staff member to take and transmit the order on behalf of the patron. The patron must still wait for a staff member to arrive so that the patron may initiate an order. Additionally these systems do not lend themselves in many areas of a resort. For example there remains the problem of locating the patron in a pool or beach environment after the order is taken. This problem is further exacerbated when the staff member who took the order is not the same person who delivers the order. Thus centrally located kiosks for patron use and handheld POS devices for a staff member s use both are of limited effectiveness and thus do not fully address the problems of both the patron and the resort.

The impact on the resort caused by these service failures is significant and includes decreased patron satisfaction higher costs through service inefficiencies and missed opportunities to increase property revenues per patron decreased repeat patron business and decreased reputation rating etc.

A patron service system and method is described herein with reference to several exemplary implementations.

For example in one described implementation portable patron units are provided to patrons for use in a resort or other establishment. The portable patron units are mobile wireless devices that include interactive display screens. The portable patron units enable patrons to interact order items request services browse information associated with the resort and or other information wirelessly. Portable staff units are provided to staff members for use in the resort or other establishment. The portable staff units are also mobile wireless devices that include interactive display screens. The portable staff units enable staff members to view information about orders and or requests entered by patrons made by the patrons wirelessly. The portable staff units can also display locations of the portable patron units to enable staff members to locate portable patron units when delivering items servicing requests etc.

This implementation as well as others is described below when read in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.

Although patron service system is described herein primarily in the context of being used in a resort it should also be noted that patron service system may be used in various other venues including but not limited to stadiums arenas retail locations zoos transportation centers health care settings convalescence centers convention centers country clubs museums gambling venues sporting events as well as any other entertainment retail and recreational environments.

In one implementation patron service system is configured to service one or more patrons and staff members of resort . Patron service system may include one or more portable patron unit . . . N one or more portable staff units . . . N a central unit and one or more fulfillment center computers . . . N . Patron service system may form at least a portion of a network .

Portable patron unit referred to generally as reference number is provided to a patron to use at resort while at a pool beach spa deck lounge or any other areas associated with resort . Portable patron unit is a rugged mobile computer device with an interactive display device . Portable patron unit uses wireless technology to transmit and receive information from other devices associated with resort . Accordingly from the comfort of the beach a pool lounge chair or other various locations a patron may view extensive menus of items services information etc. that may be ordered from a user interface displayed on display device of portable patron unit . A patron may order food beverages services and so forth by entering information into their respective portable patron unit .

In one implementation portable patron unit may be attached with a secure locking mechanism not shown to a patron s lounge chair table and so forth by a staff member of the resort. Alternatively portable patron unit may be carried by the patron or may be affixed to their person such as to a belt or wristband.

Display device typically displays a user interface to be described in more detail which is easy to use yet allows a great degree of choice and flexibility in accessing information. The user interface is designed to require minimal training for the patron to begin using the system. The user interface may display extensive menus of items services information etc. that can be ordered or accessed and may include descriptions pricing information or other details. Information such as property announcements and promotions weather conditions activity updates etc. may also be displayed to the patron at the discretion of resort .

The user interface may enable patrons to rapidly order standard menu items while also allowing for extensive order customization. The user interface may also display items that the patron had previously ordered during the day or vacation period making it easy to replicate previous orders e.g. order another round . Daily specials cross sell up sell and other recommendations based on the patron s choices and any other sales and convenience features may be included in the user interface. The portable patron unit may also display information relating to the status of any open order open tab etc. including the real time status of any order and estimated time to that order s delivery.

A patron may also use portable patron unit to page a staff member to receive personal attention from the staff member request immediate delivery of a bill etc. Portable patron units may also receive an electronic bill permitting patrons to enter credit card information or other payment information without the need for a staff member to physically deliver the bill. Bills may also be generated automatically without the need for a bill request depending on the system. Portable patron unit may offer a patron the ability to play games access the Internet receive and send e mail conduct two way conversations watch videos watch movies listen to music among other features. The ability to conduct two way conversations may assist in allowing the patron or a staff member to better communicate with each other in the event there is a question about an order such as with a custom meal order.

A portable staff unit referred to generally as reference number is a durable mobile computer device with an interactive display device that uses wireless technology to transmit and receive information from other devices associated with resort such as central unit . Portable staff unit is provided to a staff member such as a server a runner a waiter a waitress beach attendant recreational staff an employee and other personnel associated with an establishment hereinafter staff member of resort enabling the staff member to service patrons. Portable staff unit may display information on patrons including order status which then can be used to service the patrons effectively and efficiently. For instance portable staff unit is configured to receive notification of open orders made by a patron including details of one or more pending orders. The portable patron unit is designed to be mobile and carried with the staff member such as with a serving tray on a wristband or affixed to a belt etc.

Portable staff unit is capable of displaying information for the purpose of assisting the staff member to better service the patron. For instance portable staff unit may display a location of a particular portable patron unit . This feature may be useful in locating a patron that has placed an order or requested a service so that a staff member can deliver the patron s order or service the request directly to the patron in an efficient and prompt manner. The portable staff unit may also display information about the particular patron such as the patron s name room number previous orders specific items ordered billing status preferences special needs and so forth. Such information may by useful to the staff member so they may address the patron by name and understand or anticipate the patron s needs even without personally contacting the patron.

Portable staff units may also assist a staff member by displaying real time information or actions performed by patrons on their portable patron units as they are being performed such as displaying the number of patrons browsing on their portable patron unit displaying particular activities performed by a particular patron etc. Such real time information may prepare a staff member for future orders not yet received and give the staff member a head start on an order even though the patron may not have completed and submitted the order.

Portable staff unit may also receive page messages from a patron indicating the name and location of a patron who requires immediate service or personal attention. Portable staff unit may also be configured to perform all functions that a portable patron unit can perform such as placing an order which allows a staff member to instantly transmit an order taken verbally if a patron prefers not to enter the order directly on the portable patron unit or if a patron does not currently have a portable patron unit . A staff member can also take over an order from portable patron unit and edit and transmit the order if a patron is having difficulty with the system.

In terms of billing status portable staff unit can display open tabs and when a patron has requested delivery of their bill which can eliminate one of the more frustrating waiting periods in a patron s experience. In addition a staff member can use portable staff unit to perform administrative and patron and service functions such as transferring a patron to another portable patron unit if for example the patron wishes to relocate from the beach to the pool and the portable patron unit is locked to a piece of furniture assuming the patron does not simply carry the portable patron unit with them .

Central unit is typically a server side computer which controls wireless communication among portable patron units and portable staff unit and distributes content to portable patron units and portable staff units . Central unit also may serve as a gateway to other resort systems such as Point of Sale management software running on central unit or other computers.

Central unit typically receives and authenticates orders made by portable patron units and then routes the orders to an appropriate fulfillment center computer . . . N associated with a fulfillment center such as a kitchen bar spa gift shop etc. Once the order is prepared a staff member from the particular fulfillment center alerts central unit typically via a fulfillment center computer which in turn alerts one or more portable staff units that the order is ready for pickup and delivery to a patron. Central unit also may transmit other information to the portable patron units such as advertisements messages resort information. Internet access and other information that may be transmitted in response to a patron s request or without a specific patron s request. Central unit also may maintain a database including data associated with a history of transaction data patron preferences patron profiles and various other information.

One or more programmable software applications may execute on central unit i.e. one or more servers when handling and servicing requests from client devices such as portable patron unit and portable staff unit . Programmable software applications may also reside on one or more client devices such as portable patron unit portable staff unit and or fulfillment center computer computers . As shall be described in further detail components of programmable software applications may be configured to perform any one of a variety of different services associated with patron service system . Examples of services include login verification for patrons using portable patron units notification to portable staff units that an item ordered by a patron is ready for delivery from a fulfillment center to a patron maintaining one or more databases associated with patron service system routing orders to appropriate fulfillment centers providing food and drink menus to particular portable patron units enabling patrons to order different items and so on. The services can be combined with each other and with other applications to build intelligent interactive experiences on both the portable patron units and portable staff units .

Although only one central unit is shown in the exemplary illustration more than one central unit may be deployed in patron service system . Additionally some or all the functionality performed by central unit may be performed in a distributed fashion by one or more portable patron units one or more portable staff units and or one or more fulfillment center computers .

In one implementation network includes one or more Wi Fi wireless fidelity hubs . . . N that are IEEE 802.11 standard protocol compatible such as standard versions 802.11b 802.11g etc. Accordingly portable patron units portable staff units central computer and fulfillment center computers may communicate with network wirelessly. Accordingly portable patron units and portable staff units are configured to communicate with other devices wirelessly allowing them to move freely in designated areas of an resort such as the beach pool lounge etc. Typically these designated areas are located within a reception range of approximately 400 feet in any direction of the one or more wireless hubs such as hubs . . . N which are referred to as hot spots. 

Network may also use one or more other types of wireless networks such as Bluetooth compatible networks or future technologies. Network may also include a combination of wireless based and wired optical based communication links. For instance portable patron units and portable staff units may use wireless links to receive and transmit data whereas fulfillment center computers may use wired or optical links to access and transmit data. Additionally it may also be possible for various devices to communicate directly with other devices without using network as a communication link. For example it may be possible for portable patron unit to communicate directly with portable staff unit via a wireless link . Network may also include access to other networks such as the Internet.

Accordingly portable patron units portable staff units central unit and fulfillment center computers are designed to either run or interface with one or more programmable software applications that are programmable application components that are reusable and that interact programmatically over network or through other communication links typically through standard Web protocols such as extensible markup language XML hypertext transport protocol HTTP and simple mail transfer protocol SMTP . However other means of interacting with over network may be used such as simple object access protocol SOAP remote procedure call RPC or object broker type technology.

Thus patron service system offers a comprehensive and integrated solution to meet the needs of both the patron and a resort. Patrons benefit from faster service greater control over their service increased convenience and improved personalized attention. Resort benefits from the ability to enhance the patron s experience and increase patron satisfaction the opportunity to generate higher incremental revenues and the savings from faster and more efficient operations.

Exemplary patron service system is only one example of a computing system and is not intended to suggest any limitation as to the scope of use or functionality of the system. Neither should patron service system be interpreted as having any dependency or requirement relating to any one or combination of components illustrated in the exemplary computing environment shown in .

Having introduced exemplary patron service system and its environments it is now possible to describe patron service system in more detail.

An outer protective casing referred to as packaging is designed to be highly rugged provide protection from the sun saltwater chlorine sand suntan lotion spilled food and or drink. Such casing provides protection for any or all components of portable patron unit . Packaging may be made of any number of materials including but not limited to plastic metal and or wood. For example in one implementation packaging is constructed of injection molded high impact polycarbonate designed to meet the IEC 529 IP 54 standards for water and dust sand protection and may be configured into various shapes and sizes.

Portable patron unit includes a display device which in one exemplary implementation is a touch screen display device which enables a patron to select or enter information by simply touching the screen. To provide excellent visibility to a patron information is typically displayed large enough on display device to enable a person suffering from mild myopia to view content on display device without the aid of corrective lenses. For example in one implementation display device is a five inch grayscale QVGA transflective backlit touch screen LCD liquid crystal display and font sizes are displayed big enough to readily view them on display device . Additionally magnifying materials not shown may be used in conjunction with display device to enlarge content displayed therein. Various other types of display screens sizes and shapes may be chosen to implement display device . Additionally display device can be implemented without the benefit of touch screen technology and rely on other types of input devices such as a keyboard buttons input pads etc. to enter information into the portable patron unit .

Portable patron unit also may include audio generators such as one or more speakers not shown for dissemination of audio content. The audio content may be in various forms and may be in conjunction with visual content.

Other elements such as lights LEDs batteries power supplies charging connections microphones vibrating devices antennae and so forth are also not shown in but may be a part of the exemplary portable patron unit .

Typically portable patron unit contains a control unit which controls the operation of portable patron unit . Control unit includes one or more processors e.g. any of microprocessors controllers and the like which process various instructions to control the operation of portable patron unit and to communicate with other electronic and computing devices.

Control unit can be implemented with one or more memory components i.e. memory examples of which include volatile memory e.g. a random access memory RAM and the like and a non volatile memory e.g. ROM Flash EPROM EEPROM a hard disk drive any type of magnetic or optical storage device and the like . The one or more memory components store computer executable instructions in the form of program applications routines modules and other applications. Additionally various forms of information and or data can be stored in volatile or non volatile memory. Alternative implementations of control unit can include a range of processing and memory capabilities and may include any number of memory components other than those illustrated in . For example full resource portable patron units can be implemented with substantial memory and processing resources or low resource portable patron units can be implemented with limited processing and memory capabilities.

An operating system such as Windows CE operating system from Microsoft Corporation or other operating systems and one or more application programs may be resident in memory and execute on processor s to provide a runtime environment. A runtime environment facilitates extensibility of portable patron unit by allowing various interfaces to be defined that in turn allow application programs to interact with control unit . The application programs can include off the shelf program applications such as a browser to browse the Web e.g. World Wide Web e mail application to e mail messages and other off the shelf programs.

The application programs can also include one or more other programs configured to provide resort specific user interfaces including menus and information directed to patrons. Such application programs may include an order service application a patron application and an advertisement application . Each of these patron oriented application programs typically executes on processor s and may be stored in non volatile memory and or volatile memory such as some form of volatile memory .

Order service application generally facilitates displaying interactive menus for ordering items requesting services and viewing information offered by resort including viewing activities. Examples of items that may be ordered include but are not limited to food beverages rental equipment and sundry items. Examples of services include but are not limited to requesting a bill paging a staff person scheduling a spa appointment making a reservation and so forth. Order service application also may facilitate displaying information associated with scheduling activities which include but are not limited to reserving a tennis court reserving a tee time requesting a boat browsing and selecting tours etc. Order service application also may prompt portable patron unit to page a staff member when a patron selects a menu option hard button or other selection means which activates a page mode.

Patron application generally facilitates authenticating a patron s credentials identification when logging onto the system or prior to submitting an order or a request. Authentication may involve requesting that the patron enter a security code or provide a biometric sample such as a fingerprint as a security measure when logging onto the system or placing orders. Patron application also may facilitate receiving or displaying personal preference information needs or requests of the patron. Preference information needs or requests may include but are not limited to dietary restrictions medical needs emergency contacts and so forth. Patron application may also facilitate receiving and viewing personal as well as general messages such as a phone message left for a patron or an announcement from resort of a scheduling change such as a buffet opening delay.

Advertisement application generally facilitates displaying promotional messages and or advertisements on display device . Advertisement application may also facilitate displaying information such as cross sell and or up sell recommendations based on an item ordered and or service requested by a patron. For instance a cross sell recommendation may include providing alternative or competing brands of food or drink while an up sell recommendation may include offering a more expensive promotional or better quality food or drink as an alternative to what the patron may have selected.

Other applications routines programs and modules may execute on processor s . For instance a location module executes on processor s and resides in memory and or volatile memory . Location module is typically a background program that transmits information in the form of one or more signals to enable other devices to determine where portable patron unit is located.

Additionally other applications programs operating in conjunction with control unit of portable patron unit may offer a patron the ability to play games view and listen to music or videos and conduct two way conversations etc. through one or more other application programs routines etc. For instance with different storage offerings games can be played from local memory or from an online source provided by central unit or via the Internet. Portable patron unit may be configured to browse or access information from the Internet. Portable patron unit also may include telephony access such as Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP capability enabling a patron use the portable patron unit to receive make telephone calls speak to other patrons or staff members speak to a staff member in a fulfillment and so forth.

Accordingly application programs such as application programs and as well as module execute on processor s and can be stored as computer executable instructions in memory of portable patron unit . Although application programs and module are illustrated and described as single applications or module s each can be implemented as one or more combined component applications or modules and can be fully or partially received from other devices such as one or more servers e.g. central unit .

For purposes of illustration programs and other executable program components such as the operating system are illustrated herein as discrete blocks. However it is recognized that such programs and components may reside at various times in different storage components of portable patron unit or other components of patron service system and may be executed by one or more processors that are not necessarily part of portable patron unit such as one or more processor s of central unit . Additionally programs such as application programs and module are fully customizable.

Control unit may further include one or more communication interfaces such as a Wi Fi PC card not shown which enables control unit to receive and transmit information wirelessly using 802.11 compliant protocols. The Wi Fi PC card in conjunction with control unit collectively forms a wireless communication unit configured to connect the portable patron unit to network . Although not shown in it is appreciated that one or more antennae are used to emit and transfer signals from portable patron unit . An optional modem facilitates communication with other electronic and computing devices via a conventional telephone line or other type of connection such as cable.

Control unit may also include a content processor e.g. processor s which can include a video encoder and or additional processors to receive process and encode recorded video signals including analog video signals as well as television system digital video signals. For example a content processor can include an MPEG 2 or MPEG 4 Moving Pictures Experts Group encoder that encodes MPEG video content and or image data. The systems described herein can be implemented for any type of video encoding format as well as for data and or content streams that are not encoded.

Typically video content and program data includes video data and corresponding audio data. One or more other processors such as processor s may generate video and or display content that is formatted for display on display device and generates encoded decoded audio data that is formatted for presentation by a presentation device such as one or more speakers not shown in display device . Processor s can include a display controller not shown that processes the video and or display content to display corresponding images on display device . A display controller can include a graphics processor microcontroller integrated circuit and or similar video processing component to process the images.

Control unit also includes an audio and or video output that provides or otherwise renders the audio video and or display signals data to display device . Video signals and audio signals can be communicated from control unit to display device via any suitable video links such as a S video link composite video link component video link or other similar communication link.

Although shown separately some of the components of control unit may be implemented in an application specific integrated circuit ASIC . Additionally a system bus not shown typically connects the various components within control unit . A system bus can be implemented as one or more of any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus an accelerated graphics port or a local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. By way of example such architectures can include an Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus a Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus an Enhanced ISA EISA bus a Video Electronics Standards Association VESA local bus or a Peripheral Component Interconnects PCI bus also known as a Mezzanine bus .

Additional components may be included in portable patron unit and some components illustrated in portable patron unit above need not be included. For example a camera not shown could be added to portable patron unit and modem may not be included.

Control unit is similar to control unit described above with reference to and may use many of the same types of components. Control unit however may include different application programs to provide a different runtime environment that is particularly suited for staff members of resort . For example control unit may include the following application programs an order service application a patron information application a real time activity application and a location application . Collectively each of these program applications generate a user interface on display device that enables a staff member to for example view details about a patron s order determine a location of a portable patron unit receive notification of when an order is ready for delivery and delivery to a patron and view details about a patron such as a room number preference information of the patron and special needs or requests of the patron.

For example order service application generally facilitates displaying details of an order and or a request such as items ordered or type of services requested by a patron. Order service application also facilities displaying a notification indicating i when an order or request is ready for delivery to a patron from a fulfillment center or ii when a patron has requested delivery of a bill or paged a staff member.

Patron information application generally facilitates displaying details about a patron such as their name room number history preferences special needs or personal requests and so forth.

Real time activity application generally facilitates displaying actions performed by patrons as they use their portable patron units in real time. For example real time activity application may display a description of actions performed by a patron selecting items from a food menu as the patron selects the items in real time on his her portable patron unit .

Location application facilitates displaying real time locations of a particular portable patron unit to enable staff members to locate a particular patron when responding to a request or when delivering serving an item.

Accordingly application programs i.e. and execute on processor s and can be stored as computer executable instructions in memory of portable staff unit . Although application programs and are illustrated and described as single applications or module s each can be implemented as one or more combined component applications and can be fully or partially received from other devices such as one or more servers e.g. central unit .

For purposes of illustration programs and other executable program components such as the operating system are illustrated herein as discrete blocks although it is recognized that such programs and components reside at various times in different storage components of portable staff unit or other components of patron service system and may be executed by one or more processors that are not necessarily part of portable staff unit such as one or more processor s of central unit . Additionally programs such as application programs and module are fully customizable.

Other elements such as lights LEDs batteries power supplies charging connections microphones vibrating devices antennae and so forth are also not shown in either or but may be a part of the exemplary portable staff unit .

Application programs may be described in the general context of computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by a computer. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Application programs may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices e.g portable patron units and portable staff units that are linked through a communications network or other network s such as network . In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices.

The components of central unit can include but are not limited to one or more processors or processing units and memory . Although not shown a system bus typically connects the various components within central unit .

Memory represents a variety of computer readable media. Such media can be any available media that is accessible by central unit or processors and includes both volatile and non volatile media removable and non removable media. For instance memory may include computer readable media in the form of volatile memory such as RAM and or non volatile memory such as ROM.

Memory can also include other removable non removable volatile non volatile computer storage media. Such examples include a hard disk drive not shown for reading from and writing to a non removable non volatile magnetic media not shown a magnetic disk drive for reading from and writing to a removable non volatile magnetic disk e.g. a floppy disk or an optical disk drive for reading from and or writing to a removable non volatile optical disk not shown such as a CD ROM DVD ROM or other optical media.

Memory and its associated computer readable media provide non volatile storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for central unit . Other types of computer readable media which can store data that is accessible by a central unit can also be utilized to implement memory examples of such include flash memory cards CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage random access memories RAM read only memories ROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM and the like.

Any number of program modules can be stored in memory including by way of example an operating system one or more application programs other program modules and program data . Each of such operating system one or more application programs other program modules and program data or some combination thereof may include an embodiment of application programs . Memory may also include one or more databases containing data and information enabling functionality associated with application programs . In one implementation operating system includes the Windows XP operating system from Microsoft Corporation. Other operating systems may be resident in memory such as UNIX and or Linux.

A user can enter commands and information into central unit via input devices such as a keyboard and a pointing device e.g. a mouse . Other input devices not shown specifically may include a microphone joystick game pad satellite dish serial port scanner and or the like. These and other input devices are connected to processor via interface and bus structures such as a parallel port game port or a universal serial bus USB . Staff members of a resort can enter programmable information into central unit such as when updating and configuring menus managing food and beverage menus listing daily specials defining serving zones of staff members managing staff member assignments and deployment of portable staff units among staff members of resort and other information to be displayed on either portable patron units or portable staff units .

A monitor or other type of display device can also be connected to the central unit via an interface such as a video adapter . In addition to the monitor other output peripheral devices can include components such as speakers not shown and a printer which can be connected to central unit via input output interfaces not shown .

Central unit can operate in a networked environment or point to point environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers such as portable patron units portable staff units fulfillment center computers network hubs and so forth. A network interface or adapter may provide access to network such as when network is implemented as a LAN local area network or WAN wide area network .

In a networked environment such as that illustrated in program modules and program applications depicted relative to central unit or portions thereof may be stored in a remote memory storage device. By way of example application programs may reside on a memory device in portable patron unit portable staff unit etc. For purposes of illustration application programs and other executable program components such as the operating system are illustrated herein as discrete blocks although it is recognized that such programs and components reside at various times in different storage components remote or locate and are executed by processor s of central unit or remote devices.

As mentioned above memory includes application programs as well one or more databases . Application programs that utilized by both portable patron units and portable staff units such as application programs and are generally managed and controlled by central unit . Database generally includes data and information necessary to support application programs . For example advertisement application facilitates displaying promotional messages and or advertisements on display device . Central unit supplies the promotional messages and or advertisements the content to portable patron units in conjunction with advertisement application .

Accordingly central unit acts as a server to client devices such portable patron units and portable staff units . In a server role central unit supplies content to portable patron units and portable staff units . The content is stored in memory in the form of data that may be maintained in one or more databases . In one implementation database is maintained by a Microsoft s SQL server although other database management systems may be used such as IBM s DB2 database software or off the shelf database management systems from other companies such as Sybase Informix and so forth.

Memory includes several application programs particularly suited for central unit and is used to potentially service other application programs or for providing management capability for central unit . For example memory includes a routing application database application a location application a staff input application and POS interface .

Routing application generally facilities receiving orders and or requests from portable patron units and routing them to a fulfillment center computer responsible for handling the order and or request.

Database application generally facilitates storing and maintaining data in one or more databases . For instance database application may maintain menu items including descriptions of the items prices photos etc. in database s . Database application may also maintain a history of transaction data patron preferences etc. which can all be used for patron profile maintenance. Database application may also maintain data associated with staff performance such as the number of orders completed time used to fulfill orders etc. Typically information maintained in one or more databases may be accessed by various other program applications when requested.

Location application facilitates locating portable patron devices based on signals emitted by its control unit . Location application may use 802.11 location finding technology to determine locations of portable patron devices and relay their positions to portable staff units . In one implementation location application uses positioning technology developed by Ekahau Inc. of Helsinki Finland such as Ekahau Positioning Engine EPE which is a Java based positioning program that provides location coordinates of portable devices such as portable patron units and portable staff units . Utilizing EPE s engine would enable central unit to determine the location of portable patron unit accurate to within three and half feet of the unit s actual location both indoors and outdoors. Accordingly once a portable patron unit is logged onto the system and emits a wireless signal to hubs central unit would then be able to track the location of the portable patron unit in real time. This information can then be relayed to one or more portable staff units which display the patron unit s location on a map associated with any area or zone being served by the portable staff units . Alternatively global positioning technology could also be used to track the location of portable patron units .

Staff input application enables staff members of resort to enter information into central unit such as daily specials updates to menus price changes messages to staff members or patrons security information and so forth that is then stored in memory such as database and may be utilized by applications .

POS interface application facilitates integrating POS and hotel management systems with central unit . For instance in one implementation POS interface application includes Application Programming Interfaces APIs that may serve as an interface layer between POS interface application and other POS and hotel management systems. Alternatively direct interfaces may be used in the event API technology is not available with POS and hotel management systems.

Thus application programs i.e. may execute on processor s and can be stored as computer executable instructions in memory accessible by central unit . Although application programs are illustrated and described as single applications or module s each can be implemented as one or more combined component applications and can be fully or partially received from other devices.

For purposes of illustration programs and other executable program components such as the operating system are illustrated herein as discrete blocks although it is recognized that such programs and components reside at various times in different storage components of central unit or other components of patron service system and may be executed by one or more processors that are not necessarily part of central unit .

It should be noted that central unit may include other capabilities such as the ability to serve games serve music and or videos to portable patron units . Central unit may also act as an IP router switch enabling VoIP or Voice Over WiFi capability between portable patron units and other devices connected to network .

Selecting resort activities icon activates a mode of operation also associated with order service application such as displaying information associated with scheduling activities which may include reserving a tennis court reserving a tee time requesting a boat browsing and selecting tours scheduling a massage etc.

Selecting food beverage icon activates a mode of operation also associated with order service application such as viewing a food or beverage menu browsing nutritional information ordering food or beverages and so forth. As represented in a patron has selected food beverage icon . Accordingly the next user interface to be displayed by control unit will pertain to viewing food beverage menus and or ordering items associated with such menus.

Portable patron unit may include a button an icon not shown on display screen or other related selection means such as a switch key etc. that provides a means for a patron to prompt portable patron unit to wirelessly page a staff member for immediate service. For example pressing button causes portable patron unit to select a paging mode associated with order service application .

Although only these three icons and button are shown in any combination of differing types of additional information can be included in display screen to further enable a patron to interact with portable patron unit. For instance display screen may include additional icons associated with purchasing other products viewing other information such as messages or browsing the Internet conducting VOIP conversations and so forth. Other selectable elements could be used instead of or in conjunction with icons such as a keypad keyboard not shown a pointing device not shown and or a mouse not shown etc. Additionally one or more of the icons on display screen may appear on other display screens pages presented on display device . Accordingly some or all of the icons may be displayed in different formats in different screens in different order with different verbiage etc.

Display screen includes an exemplary beverage menu for ordering blended drinks that may be selected after selecting a mixed drink icon or button not shown . Beverage menu may be one of several menus that a patron can access after selecting food beverage icon and several intermediate food or beverage menus may be selected by a patron before arriving at beverage menu . Beverage menu includes particular beverage icons prices associated with the a particular beverage and a selectable control within screen to generate different beverage selection screens such as by manipulating arrows in a selectable control or by other screen selection manipulation means such as tabs buttons etc. Additionally the beverage choices may be depicted in several display windows.

Also depicted in display screen is an advertisement . Advertisements are generally generated by a mode of operation associated with advertisement application . The advertisement generation correlates i.e. is appurtenant to the item viewed or ordered by the patron which in this example relates to buying three frozen margaritas for the price of two. The advertisement could also correlate to a service requested. Another advertisement may be displayed in conjunction with advertisement although it may be displayed separately . In this example advertisement is a promotion message detailing a happy hour special. Although not shown in this example the advertisement could also be displayed on display screen or other screens to cross sell and or up sell recommendations based on an item ordered and or service requested by a patron. For instance a cross sell recommendation may include providing an alternative or competing brand of margarita mix or an alternative type of alcohol. An up sell recommendation may include offering a more expensive promotional or better quality alcohol as an alternative to what the patron may have selected.

Order another round icon allows a patron to automatically order another round of drinks or other items previously ordered by selecting icon . Selecting icon may display items that the patron previously ordered during the day making it easy to view previous order and order one or more items based on the logged history.

Although not shown display screen may also include selection items enabling a patron to customize orders select condiments select preparation methods select side dishes etc. For instance display screen may display a flavor associated with a drink the option to order the drink with or without salt the option to order the drink with or without ice and so forth. Each of the options presented typically relate to the item selected by the patron and can be tailored by a resort through the use of patron service system .

It is noted that display screen is only one example of screens that may be used in association with ordering items or requesting services. Additionally one or more of the icons present on display screen may appear on other display screens presented on display device . Accordingly some or all of the icons may be displayed in different formats in different screens in different order with different verbiage etc. It is also appreciated that one or more portions of screen are customizable and may not be presented in certain implementations.

Display screen may includes confirmation information . For instance once the item or service is chosen and a patron indicates completion of the selection by touching confirmation icon the patron may be prompted to enter security identification or other information before the order request is processed such as via information block . This is to ensure that the patron is authenticated before the order request is accepted. In one implementation the information is entered into information block by interacting with a touch screen. Alternatively in other implementations this information may be entered via a keypad not shown or by other means such as by biometrics.

The patron may preview an order before submitting it as via a preview area . To confirm the information displayed in preview area the patron would select a submit now type of button or use some other tool or any other selection means. To cancel the order request the patron would select a cancel icon or any other selection means. To correct or change information the patron would select a correction icon or any other selection means.

Display area may indicate real time information relating to a pending order. For example display area may indicate that an order is currently pending in the kitchen and thus is not available for delivery by a waiter yet. Using display area a patron may be kept abreast of the status of his order in real time.

A preference icon may also be presented to a patron enabling a patron to input or view preference information associated with the patron including special needs requests of the patron dietary restrictions medical needs and or information associated with the patron from prior visits to resort .

Display screen may include an icon listing the name of a staff member recognized by patron service system as using this particular portable patron unit . Display screen may also include a date and time bar or icon .

Display screen may include a service request icon indicating the quantity of patrons with a pending service request. The service request may involve a page from a patron for immediate service or some other type of service offered by resort to patrons. To ascertain details about one or more requests the staff member would select icon i.e. touch icon which would prompt a window or new display screen to appear on display device that would describe specific details of the request.

Display screen may include a bill request icon indicating the quantity of patrons with a pending bill request. If the bill request was pending the staff member would select icon which would prompt a window or new display screen to appear on display device that may describe which patrons are requesting their bill further details about bills patron identification itemized information payment methods etc.

Display screen may include a delivery notification icon indicating how many orders are ready for delivery in fulfillment centers . If an order was ready for delivery the staff member could select icon which would prompt a window or new display screen to appear on display device that would describe which orders were ready for delivery and details of the orders such as the fulfillment center location of the prepared orders the identification of the patron waiting to receive the order.

Display screen may also include an ordered notification icon indicating how many non service orders are pending. To ascertain details about the order the staff member may select icon which would prompt a window or new display screen to appear on display device that would describe specific details about the pending order.

Display screen may include a real time ordering notification icon indicating how many patrons are currently ordering items. If a patron were in the process of making an order the staff member could select icon which would prompt a window or new display screen to appear on display device enabling the staff member to view actions performed by the patron as they are performed by the patron in real time when making an order.

Display screen may include a browsing notification icon indicating how many patrons are currently browsing information on their portable patron units . To view what a certain patron is browsing the staff member may select icon which may prompt a window or new display screen to appear on display device that would show or list details about the patron s activities in real time.

Display screen may include a pool online icon indicating how many patrons are logged onto patron service system and are located at the pool. In the exemplary illustration 14 patrons are actively on line. To ascertain details about the patrons on line such as their names exact locations and so forth the staff member may select icon i.e. touch icon which would prompt a window or new display screen to appear on display device describing details about the patrons using portable patron units located around the resort s pool.

Display screen may include a beach online icon indicating how many patrons are logged onto patron service system and are located at the beach. In the exemplary illustration six patrons are actively on line. To ascertain details about the patrons on line such as their names locations and so forth the staff member may select icon which would prompt a window or new display screen to appear on display device describing details about the patrons using portable patron units located on the beach.

Display screen may include a menu icon which when selected may prompt a window or new display screens enabling staff members to view food and beverage menus. Accordingly a portable staff unit can perform ordering functions like a portable patron unit such as placing an order which allows staff members to instantly transmit an order taken verbally such as where a patron prefers not to enter the order directly on their portable patron unit . Menu icon may also enable a staff member to take over an order from portable patron unit edit and transmit the order such as where the patron is having difficulty with the system.

Display screen may include a patron icon which when selected would prompt a window or new display screens enabling staff members to view information about particular patrons.

Display screen may include a staff messages icon that may flash or light up indicating that the staff member has received a message or been paged. To ascertain details about the message the staff member may select icon which would prompt a window or new display screen to appear on display device that describes details about the message. When a message is received portable staff unit may also vibrate or ring to alert the staff member of the message.

A staff member may quickly locate the patron by selecting locate patron icon which may prompt a map associated with resort and the location of the portable patron unit used by the patron.

Once an order is delivered to a patron a staff member may press order delivered icon which prompts portable patron unit to send a message to central unit closing out the open order. A staff member may also return to the main menu by selecting icon .

It should be appreciated that is only an example screen. Some or all of the icons may be displayed in different formats in different screens in different order with different verbiage etc. Portions of display screen are optional and may not be presented in certain implementations.

Methods for patron service system may be described in the general context of computer executable instructions. Generally computer executable instructions include routines programs objects components data structures etc. and the like that perform particular functions or implement particular abstract data types. The described methods may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where functions are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment computer executable instructions may be located in both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices.

In block portable patron units are provided to patrons at a resort stadium arena or other establishments. For example in a resort environment a portable patron unit maybe provided to a patron at check in at various areas of the resort such as arrival at a beach or pool area. The portable patron units may be fastened and locked to a chair lounge table etc. Alternatively patrons may carry the portable patron units.

In block the portable patron unit is powered on and connects wirelessly to a wireless network. For example portable patron unit connects to network and is recognized by central unit . A staff member of resort may enter a patron s room number using display device verify the patron s name as displayed on display device as retrieved from database or another memory device such as a resort s Property Management System interface not shown . At this point the patron may choose a pin security code and verify the pin code for security purposes.

In block the portable patron unit transmits signals wirelessly that enable one or more other devices to determine the location of the portable patron unit. For example central unit may receive coordinate information from network based on calculations made from a signal received from the portable patron unit with respect to and through one or more hubs . This coordinate information may be translated by the central unit mapped to locations associated with resort and sent to other devices such as portable staff units for display to enable staff members to locate the portable patron unit.

In block information also referred to as content is displayed on portable patron unit . The information may include a user interface display screens including menus main menus food and beverage menus sub menus associated with the main menus or food and beverage menus such as specific drinks appetizers sandwiches etc. The menus may offer the patron the ability to select a quantity of items desired prices selection of condiments selection of side dishes preparation methods and so forth. A server side device such as central unit typically supplies the information i.e. content to portable patron unit .

In block a patron may order items and or request services via a portable patron unit and transmit the order request wirelessly to the network or directly to other devices via a point to point wireless connection. For example a patron may order items and or request services via a user interface on display device of portable patron unit and transmit the order request wirelessly to network . When the patron is satisfied with an order and or request the patron may press an icon or button or other related mechanism to transmit the order request.

In block if the patron has placed previous orders the patron can access information about the previous order and can re order any or all of the items. For example a patron may select previously ordered icon to automatically order another round of drinks.

In block the patron may view preferences special needs or special requests displayed on the portable patron device. For example portable patron unit may display preference information special needs requests and information from prior visits. Additionally the patron may enter preference information special needs requests and information into the portable patron unit for future reference by central unit or other devices associated with resort .

In block prior to submitting or accepting an order the portable patron unit may request that the patron enter security information such as a PIN code previously selected and entered in to the system by the patron. This information is then verified and authenticated. Alternatively other authentication measures could be performed.

In block advertisements or promotional messages are displayed. The advertisements or promotional messages may be generated in response to items or services requested by the patron. For example recommendations promotions and featured items can be displayed based on items selected by the patron. The advertisements or promotional messages may include displaying cross sell and or up sell recommendations based on the items ordered and or services requested by the patrons. The advertisements may not be related to any response or action performed by a patron.

In block real time status information about a pending order may be displayed. For example a display area may be generated on portable patron unit providing real time information relating to a pending order or request for service.

In block paging a staff member or requesting immediate assistance is enabled. For example a patron may select a call service type button icon or related mechanism which prompts portable patron unit to page a staff member for immediate assistance.

In block bill requests are enabled. For example a patron may select a button icon or related mechanism which prompts portable patron unit to transmit a wireless signal requesting delivery of a bill. Alternatively the patron may receive a virtual bill i.e. electronic bill on the display device and approve payment of the bill without the assistance of a staff member.

In block interactive games may be offered to patrons. For example interactive games may be selected and played on the portable patron units including games that utilize the Internet. Additionally telephony access may be provided to patrons such VoIP or voice over WIFI capability.

In block movies music and static photos may be offered and generated for the patron via portable patron unit . For example portable patron units are capable of displaying movies playing music displaying photos etc.

It is noted that the patron can press a touch screen button to end a session and logoff network or the portable patron unit may automatically power down and logoff the patron after period of time.

It is also noted that program applications such as off the shelf application s order service application patron application advertisement application as well as location module executing on processor s and stored in memory memory may be implemented to perform one or more portions associated with method .

Accordingly program applications generate menus user interfaces guides screens etc. for display which enable a patron to navigate and perform activities order items request services browse information locally or remotely via the Internet view movies play and view interactive game selections view and play music selections conduct voice conversations etc. Application programs also enable a patron s transactions to be processed.

In block portable staff units are provided to staff members at a resort stadium arena or other establishments. For example in a resort environment a portable staff unit maybe provided to a waiter for use in a pool area to another waiter servicing the beach and so forth. Staff members may carry the portable staff units .

In block the portable staff unit is powered on and connects to a wireless network. For example portable staff unit connects to network and is recognized by central unit . At this point the portable staff unit may be logged onto network . Security authentication procedures may be performed when logging portable staff units onto network .

In block details about an order or request are displayed. For example details of items associated with an order are displayed on display device of portable staff unit .

In block notifications indicating when an order or service request is ready for pickup from a fulfillment center and delivery to a patron are received and displayed. For example portable staff unit receives notifications wirelessly that a patron s order or potentially a service request is ready for delivery and delivery to a patron. The notifications may be sent directly from fulfillment center computers or via central unit . Once an order is delivered the order may be closed by touching a button or other means of selection on portable staff unit to indicate that the order has been delivered.

In block details about a patron may be rendered and displayed. For example portable staff unit may display details about a patron including the patron s room number preference information special needs requests information associated with prior visits notes made by other staff members about the patron and so forth.

In block the number of patrons using their portable patron units are displayed. For example portable staff unit displays patrons logged onto network and possibly their relative zone locations such as the pool or beach. Portable staff unit may limit the display to the quantity of patrons logged into the network in a particular zone of responsibility for a staff member.

In block the actual location of a portable patron unit may be determined and displayed on portable staff units or other devices to enable staff members to quickly and efficiently deliver items ordered or services requested directly to a patron.

In block the quantity of outstanding orders pending that have not been delivered and closed out may be displayed on a portable staff unit .

In block messages generated by the resort or staff members of the resort patrons and potentially other entities may be transmitted and displayed on portable staff units .

In block portable staff units may receive a notification of a page from a portable patron unit that a patron is requesting immediate service e.g. the patron has selected a call service button or any other type of paging mechanism on their portable patron unit .

In block portable staff units may receive and display menus such as food and beverage menus such as to enable staff members to view the menus answer questions about the menu items and or take an order at the request of patron etc.

In block portable staff units receives and displays a notification page that a patron has requested their bill.

In block the real time activity of a patron performed on a portable patron device is displayed on portable staff unit .

It is noted that program applications such as off the shelf application s order service application patron information application real time activity application and location application executing on processor s and stored in memory are implemented to perform one or more portions of the functionality associated with method . Accordingly program applications generate menus user interfaces guides screens and so forth for display which enable a staff member to service patrons such as receiving orders viewing order details receiving the location of portable staff units receive service requests browse information and so forth.

In block central unit communicates with portable patron units and portable staff units as a server in a client server relationship.

In block central unit distributes content to both the portable patron units and portable staff units . The content may include menus for order items services offered by the resort advertisements a history of an item previously ordered by a particular patron preference information special needs requests and preference information associated with a patron status of an open or request and so forth.

In block central unit receives transaction information from the portable patron units and portable staff units . The transaction information may include orders requests for services requests for a bill etc.

In block central unit processes the transaction information by routing orders or requests to appropriate staff members or fulfillment centers to be carried out Central unit may also store the transaction information in databases .

In block central unit interfaces with POS computers such as fulfillment center computers and hotel management systems.

In block central unit determines the location of portable units such as portable patron units and sends details of the location such as on a map to portable staff units for display.

In block central unit verifies portable patron units and portable staff units as authorized devices and authenticates their users based on security codes.

In block central unit maintains a databases necessary for servicing content to other units such as maintaining transaction information maintain menu information descriptions photos prices status of items such as sold out and so forth. A database may also contain information to enable resort management to monitor performance of staff such as how many orders have been serviced and or time used to deliver and or fulfill orders average sale prices best selling items beverage to food ratios abandoned orders page views and so forth.

In block central unit serves as an interface to other devices such as a gateway to the Internet or as an interface to POS systems etc.

It is noted that program applications and data stored in memory are implemented to perform one or more portions of the functionality associated with method .

Although some implementations of the various methods and arrangements of the present invention have been illustrated in the accompanying Drawings and described in the foregoing Detailed Description it will be understood that the invention is not limited to the exemplary aspects disclosed but is capable of numerous rearrangements modifications and substitutions without departing from the spirit of the invention as set forth and defined by the following claims.

