---

title: Image display apparatus, image display system, and image display method
abstract: An image display apparatus includes a location information generating unit that generates location information of index information stored in the server apparatus and location information of image data stored in the server apparatus; an index obtaining unit that obtains the index information from the server apparatus using the location information of the index information; a list screen generating unit that generates a list screen including information on the image data stored in the server apparatus using the index information and displays the list screen on a display unit; an image data obtaining unit that obtains the image data from the server apparatus using the location information of the image data that is selected by an operator from the list screen; and a display screen generating unit that generates a display screen of the obtained image data and displays the display screen on the display unit.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09361315&OS=09361315&RS=09361315
owner: Ricoh Company, Ltd.
number: 09361315
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20121029
---
The present invention relates to an image display apparatus an image display system and an image display method.

It is becoming conventional practice at corporate meetings and other gatherings to connect a PC to a projector to project an image during the meeting. Also a projector may access a projectable file stored in a USB memory loaded therein to project the accessed file e.g. see Japanese Laid Open Patent Publication No. 2008 310247 .

However to project an image using a conventional projector a PC storing the image has to be connected to the projector or a USB memory storing the image has to be loaded in the projector. In the case of carrying a projector to a remote location to perform the image projection the PC or the USB memory storing the image to be projected must carried along with the projector thereby creating an inconvenience. Also in the case where a PC or a USB memory storing the image has to be carried along with the projector the PC or the USB memory may be lost or stolen so that there is a risk of confidential information leakage.

It is a general object of at least one embodiment of the present invention to provide an image display apparatus that substantially obviates one or more problems caused by the limitations and disadvantages of the related art.

One object of at least one embodiment of the present invention is to improve convenience and prevent confidential information leakage in an image display apparatus an image display system and an image display method.

In one embodiment of the present invention an image display apparatus is connected to a server apparatus via a network and includes a location information generating unit that generates at least one of location information of index information stored in the server apparatus and location information of image data stored in the server apparatus an index obtaining unit that obtains the index information from the server apparatus using the location information of the index information a list screen generating unit that generates a list screen including information on the image data stored in the server apparatus using the index information and prompts a display unit to display the list screen an image data obtaining unit that obtains the image data from the server apparatus using the location information of the image data that is selected by an operator from the list screen and a display screen generating unit that generates a display screen of the obtained image data and prompts the display unit to display the display screen.

In other embodiments one or more features of the image display apparatus according to the above embodiment may be applied to an image display system an image display method a computer program or a data structure for enabling a computer to execute the image display method or a recording medium storing the computer program or the data structure for example.

According to an aspect of the present invention convenience may be improved and confidential information leakage may be prevented in an image display apparatus an image display system and an image display method.

In the following embodiments of the present invention are described with reference to the accompanying drawings. It is noted that a projector is described below as an exemplary embodiment of an image display apparatus of the present invention. Also a projection system is described below as an exemplary embodiment of an image display system of the present invention. Further projection by the projector corresponds to an exemplary manner of displaying image data by an image display apparatus.

In the case where access number based access restriction is implemented an operator user inputs an access number to the projector by operating a remote control for example after inputting a start command e.g. command to project a file list screen to the projector S . It is noted that in a case where access is unrestricted step S may be omitted.

In step S the projector obtains an index file from the web server . The index file is an example of index information that includes information on image data stored in the web server . For example the index file may include list information of the image data stored in the web server . In one specific example the index file may include information on one or more content files registered in a directory and information on a subdirectory. The content file is an example of an image data file stored in the web server . For example the content file may correspond to a still image file or a moving image file that is in a format projectable by the projector . In the illustrated example a JPEG file is stored in the web server as the content file.

In the case where access number based access restriction is implemented the index file obtained from the web server includes information on the content file associated with the access number input by the operator. In the case where access is unrestricted the index file includes information on all content files registered in a predetermined directory.

The projector generates a file list screen based on the index file obtained from the web server and projects the generated file list screen. In step S the operator of the projector selects the content file to be projected from the file list screen by operating the remote control .

In step S the projector obtains the content file selected by the operator from the web server . The projector generates a file projection screen based on the content file obtained from the web server and projects the generated file projection screen.

For example when a left key e.g. hard function key of the projector main frame or button of the remote control is pressed the projector may display an image of a content file that precedes the content file that is currently displayed in the image display field e.g. the content file with a file name that precedes the file name of the currently displayed content file alphabetically . When the right key is pressed the projector may display the image of the next content file coming after the content file that is currently being displayed in the image display field . By operating the left and right keys the operator of the projector may conduct a manual slide show. Also the projector may have an automatic slideshow function for displaying an image file for a predetermined time period before moving on to the next image file for example.

Further the projector may have a read ahead function and or a caching function to accommodate the projection of content files in sequence or switching the content files back and forth through operation of the left and right keys upon projecting the file projection screen .

The projection server validity setting is for specifying whether the projection server is valid or invalid. The root URL setting is for specifying the root URL of the web server that stores the content file to be accessed. For example in http 192.168.1.10 is designated as the root URL. In other examples http 192.168.1.10 8080 pjserv or http www.example.com pjserv n where n represents the access number may be designated as the root URL for example.

In a case where characters that may be input are limited by constraints of the setting screen or constraints of the remote control for example the root URL setting may be input from an external tool using a web API Application Programming Interface as is described below.

The index file setting is for specifying the index file name. The access restriction type setting is for specifying whether access number based access restriction is to be implemented or access is to be unrestricted.

It is noted that the projector uses the setting values designated for the root URL setting and the index file setting in the setting screen of in obtaining the index file from the web server in step S of . That is the root URL and the index file name in the setting screen are designated based on the configuration of the web server .

As is shown in the index file index.json can be found in the directory of the root URL http 192.168.1.10 8080 pjserv . Also the index file index.json can be found in the subdirectory subdir .

The index file included in the directory of the root URL index file of the root directory may be described in the format shown in for example. The index file in the subdirectory may be described in the format shown in for example.

In where the index files are described using JSON the entire object is enclosed in curly brackets a key and a corresponding value are separated by a colon and pairs of the key and the value are separated by a comma . For example directory folder or file may be described as the value for the type key and a directory name or a file name may be described as the value for the name key.

It is noted that the index file shown in indicates that the subdirectory subdir JPEG files file01.jpg and file02.jpg are included in the root URL directory. The index file shown in indicates that JPEG files slide001.jpg and slide002.jpg are included in the subdirectory.

As is shown in an index generation script pjserv.cgi can be found in the directory of the root URL http www.example.com pjserv . The web server is set up so that the index generation script pjserv.cgi included in the root URL directory is started even when URLs of subdirectories such as 123456 and 123456 ppt1 are accessed.

The index generation script pjserv.cgi dynamically generates indexes such as those shown in by scanning each directory. shows an exemplary configuration of the index file of the subdirectory 123456 . shows an exemplary configuration of the index file of the subdirectory 999999 ppt99 .

It is noted that the index files of are described in the JSON format as in . For example the index file shown in indicates that subdirectories ppt1 and ppt2 are included in the subdirectory 123456 . The index file shown in indicates that JPEG files slide001.jpg and slide002.jpg are included in the subdirectory 999999 ppt99 .

As can be appreciated from the URL path shown in for example the directories are arranged into a hierarchical structure. In the URL path shown in an index file is provided at each hierarchy.

It is noted that an index file of the present embodiment may be regarded as a resource describing a directory. Thus a resource according to the present embodiment may be defined by an index file and a content file JPEG file . The index file includes information on the content files and subdirectories registered under a directory.

The projector may refer to the index file of a current directory to descend to the subdirectories nested under the current directory. On the other hand to ascend to the parent directory the projector needs the index file of the parent directory. In the present embodiment the projector is arranged to generate the URL so that the hierarchy of the directory matches the hierarchy of the URL does not include the information on the parent directory in the index file .

The projection unit includes a control unit for controlling an optical system that projects an image. The operations unit includes hard keys and a receiving unit for receiving an optical signal from the remote control that is operated by a user.

The setting value storage unit of the network controller stores a setting value that has been registered via the setting screen shown in in a permanent memory. The setting command interpreting unit interprets a setting value input from an external tool using a web API and stores the setting value in the setting value storage unit . The external tool may be connected to the projector via the network . It is noted that the web API is described in detail below.

The communication control unit controls HTTP communications and HTTPS communications between the projector and the web server via the network . The UI screen generating unit generates UI user interface screens such as the file list screen the file projection screen and the setting screen . The graphic driver prompts the projection unit to project the UI screen generated by the UI screen generating unit .

The operations unit control unit controls the operations unit and notifies the UI screen generating unit of an operation input made by a user via the operations unit . The URL generating unit uses the setting value stored in the setting value storage unit to generate a URL for obtaining an index file or a content file and sends the generated URL to the UI screen generating unit .

The index obtaining unit obtains an index file from the web server using the communication control unit based on an instruction from the UI screen generating unit . The index analyzing unit analyzes the obtained index file and converts the index file into a format that may be processed by the UI screen generating unit . For example the index analyzing unit may convert text data in the JSON format into structural data that may be processed by the UI screen generating unit . The index obtaining unit sends index information that is converted into a format that may be processed by the UI screen generating unit to the UI screen generating unit .

The content file obtaining unit obtains a content file from the web server using the communication control unit based on an instruction from the UI screen generating unit . The image decoder decodes the content file obtained by the content file obtaining unit into a bitmap file loads the bitmap in a memory frame buffer and sends the bitmap to the graphic driver . The graphic driver synthesizes the bitmap with the file projection screen generated by the UI screen generating unit and directs the projection unit to project the synthesized file projection screen bitmap . The certificate storage unit stores a digital certificate used for server authentication and user authentication when the communication control unit establishes HTTPS communication.

In step S the operations unit control unit accepts an access number input by the operator via the operations unit . The operations unit control unit notifies the UI screen generating unit of the access number input. It is noted that in a case where access is unrestricted step S may be skipped.

In step S the UI screen generating unit directs the URL generating unit to generate a root URL. The URL generating unit uses the setting values stored in the setting value storage unit to generate a URL for obtaining an index file and notifies the UI screen generating unit of the generated URL. It is noted that detailed process steps for generating the URL are described below.

In step S the UI screen generating unit designates the URL for obtaining the index file and directs the index obtaining unit to obtain the index file. The index obtaining unit sends a request to the web server via the communication control unit to obtain the index file designated by the UI screen generating unit .

In step S the index obtaining unit receives the requested index file from the web server via the communication control unit . In step S the index analyzing unit analyzes the received index file and converts the index file into a format that may be processed by the UI screen generating unit . The index obtaining unit then sends the converted index information to the UI screen generating unit .

In step S the UI screen generating unit generates a file list screen such as that shown in based on the received index information. In step S the UI screen generating unit directs the graphic driver to project the file list screen . In turn the graphic driver controls the projection unit to project the file list screen .

The operator of the projector may operate the remote control to select from the file list screen a content file to be projected a subdirectory a higher hierarchy or an end command for example. In step S the operations unit control unit accepts the operation selection input made by the operator via the operations unit . The operations unit control unit notifies the UI screen generating unit of the selection input made by the operator.

In step S the UI screen generating unit determines whether the accepted selection input is for the subdirectory or the higher hierarchy. If the accepted selection input is for the subdirectory or the higher hierarchy S YES the UI screen generating unit performs step S. In step S the UI screen generating unit directs the URL generating unit to generate a URL for the subdirectory or the higher hierarchy.

The URL generating unit uses the setting values stored in the setting value storage unit and the received index information to generate a URL for obtaining the index file of the subdirectory or the higher hierarchy and notifies the UI screen generating unit of the generated URL. It is noted that detailed process steps for generating the URL in step S are described below.

Upon receiving notification of the generated URL for obtaining the index file of the subdirectory or the higher hierarchy the UI generating unit goes back to step S and designates the URL for obtaining the index file of the subdirectory or the higher hierarchy and directs the index obtaining unit to obtain the designated index file.

On the other hand when the accepted selection input is not for the subdirectory or the higher hierarchy S NO the UI screen generating unit proceeds to step S and determines whether the accepted selection input is the end command. If the selection input is the end command S YES the UI screen generating unit ends the process of .

If the accepted selection input is not the end command S NO the UI screen generating unit determines that the accepted selection input is for a content file and proceeds to step S in which it directs the URL generating unit to generate a URL for obtaining the selected content file. It is noted that detailed process steps for generating the URL in step S are described below.

In step S the UI screen generating unit designates the URL for obtaining the selected content file and directs the content file obtaining unit to obtain the selected content file from the web server . The content file obtaining unit sends a request to the web server via the communication control unit to obtain the selected content file designated by the UI screen generating unit .

In step S the content file obtaining unit receives the selected content file from the web server via the communication control unit . In step S the image decoder decodes the obtained content file e.g. JPEG file into a bitmap file loads the bitmap in a memory frame buffer and sends the bitmap to the graphic driver .

In step S the UI screen generating unit generates a file projection screen such as that shown in . The UI screen generating unit directs the graphic driver to project the generated file projection screen. The graphic driver synthesizes the bitmap with the file projection screen generated by the UI screen generating unit . The graphic driver prompts the projection unit to project the synthesized file projection screen bitmap .

The operator of the projector may operate the remote control to execute operations indicated in the operations field of the file projection screen see . In step S the operations unit control unit accepts a key input made by the operator via the operations unit . The operations unit control unit notifies the UI screen generating unit of the accepted key input. In step S the UI screen generating unit determines whether the accepted key input corresponds to a menu button.

If the accepted key input corresponds to the menu button S YES the UI screen generating unit goes back to step S to generate and display the file list screen . If the accepted key input does not correspond to the menu button S NO the UI screen generating unit proceeds to step S.

In step S the UI screen generating unit determines whether the accepted key input corresponds to the left key PREVIOUS FILE or the right key NEXT FILE . If the accepted key input corresponds to the left key PREVIOUS FILE or the right key NEXT FILE S YES the UI screen generating unit refers to index information stored in a memory to determine the content file name of the previous or next content file in alphabetical order. Then the process goes back to S to project on the file projection screen the image of the previous or next content file coming before or after the content file that is currently projected in the image display field . If the accepted key input does not correspond to the left key or the right key S NO the UI screen generating unit goes back to step S.

In a case where HTTPS is designated as the root URL e.g. https 192.168.1.10 the projector performs server authentication and client authentication as described below. The certificate storage unit of the projector may store CA certificates to be used for verifying a server certificate including a first CA certificate authority certificate that cannot be updated or deleted by a user and a given second CA certificate that may be replaced. It is noted that the certificate storage unit may store other types of certificates as well.

The projector uses the first and second CA certificates to perform SSL Secure Socket Layer server authentication. First the projector validates the server certificate using the first CA certificate. If the validation is successful the projector records a success log. Then the projector validates the server certificate using the second CA certificate. If the validation is successful the projector records a success log. It is noted that even when one or more of the validation checks using the first CA certificate and the second CA certificate is not successful the projector may continue communications with the server. In this case the projector may record a failure log.

The server authentication is performed to prevent an unauthorized server from posing as the web server as viewed by the projector . When an unauthorized web server gains access to a client function cooperating with the web server there is a risk of an access number being leaked.

However even if the access number is leaked the unauthorized web server may be detected since it will be unable to send the appropriate contents. Also an access number leakage on one occasion may not pose such a threat if the access number is not arranged to be the same as other security information such as IDs and passwords and if the access number can be easily changed. Thus the projector may continue communications with the server even when a server validation check fails. In certain embodiments the projector may display server certificate information and enable the operator to select whether to continue communications or the projector may allow settings to be switched between automatically continuing communications or enabling selection by the operator.

The certificate storage unit may also store client certificates including a first device certificate that cannot be updated or deleted by a user and a given second device certificate that may be replaced. It is noted that the certificate storage unit may store other types of certificates as well.

When the projector receives a request for a client certificate from the web server during an SSL handshake the projector may respond in the following manner. In the case where server validation using the first CA certificate has been successful the projector sends the first device certificate to the web server . In a case where the validation of the server certificate using the first CA certificate has not been successful the projector terminates the communication.

The client authentication is performed in order to prevent an unauthorized projector from posing as the projector as viewed by the web server . When an unauthorized projector gains access to a client function cooperating with the web server there is a risk of content leakage.

Content leakage may pose a serious threat depending on the information content that is exposed. In order to be authenticated as a valid client the projector must send an appropriate client certificate that is administered by the web server upon receiving a request for a client certificate from the web server . For example in the case where validation of the server certificate has been successful using the second CA certificate the projector may send the second device certificate to the web server as the client certificate administered in the web server . In certain embodiments even in the case where the validation of the server certificate has failed with both the first and second CA certificates the projector may send at least one of the first or second device certificates. Also the projector may enable the operator to select the device certificate to be sent to the web server or allow settings to be switched between sending the first device certificate and the second device certificate for example.

It is noted that the first CA certificate and or the first device certificate may be written in the client device projector by the device manufacturer distributor upon shipment delivery or purchase by a customer for example. The first CA certificate and or first device certificate is arranged so that once it is written it may not be updated or deleted by the user. In this way a device certificate whose uniqueness is ensured by the manufacturer distributor may be stored in each device projector and the web server may obtain such device certificate during an SSL handshake with the projector . An application running on the web server may refer to a CRM system to determine the customer associated with a device corresponding to the sender of a request so that differing content for each customer may be safely transmitted to a corresponding device.

In the web server the projector and a client PC are interconnected via the network so that they may exchange data with each other. The client PC includes a JPEG conversion tool as an exemplary external tool. The operator of the projector may drag and drop a file to be projected by the projector e.g. presentation software file in the JPEG conversion tool .

The JPEG conversion tool converts the drag and dropped file into a JPEG file and uploads the JPEG file in the web server . In one embodiment the operator may upload the JPEG file from the client PC in a region of web server that is associated with an access number.

To have the projector project the uploaded JPEG file after inputting a start command to the projector the operator may input the access number by operating the remote control for example. In turn the projector obtains an index file including information on the JPEG file associated with the access number from the web server .

The projector generates a file list screen based on the index file obtained from the web server and projects the generated file list screen . The operator of the projector may operate the remote control to have a file list screen of a subdirectory or a higher hierarchy projected by the projector . The file list screen includes information on the JPEG files and subdirectories associated with the access number.

The operator of the projector operates the remote control to select the JPEG file to be projected by the projector from the file list screen . The projector obtains the JPEG file designate by the operator from the web server . The projector generates a file projection screen based on the JPEG file obtained from the web server and projects the generated file projection screen .

As can be appreciated in by using the JPEG conversion tool a JPEG file to be projected by the projector may be easily uploaded in the web server . Also in access number based access restriction may be easily implemented.

The projector according to the present embodiment is configured to obtain image data such as a JPEG file stored in the web server and project the obtained image data. In this way image data may be projected by the projector without using an external medium such as a PC or USB memory storing the image data. According to an aspect of the present embodiment convenience may be improved since image projection may be enabled without using an external medium such as a PC or USB memory storing the image data. According to another aspect of the present embodiment since an external medium such as a PC or USB memory storing the image data does not have to be carried along with the projector confidential information leakage due to loss of the PC or USB memory may be prevented.

According to another aspect of the present embodiment by implementing an access number based access restriction the projector may be arranged to project only contents associated with an access number that is input so that convenience may be improved. Also a party that is unaware of the access number will be unable to project the contents so that unauthorized access to the contents may be prevented.

According to another aspect of the present embodiment since the projector has an HTTPS communication function and is capable of performing client authentication using a non rewritable device certificate the web server may safely transmit differing contents to different customers.

According to another aspect of the present embodiment since image data to be projected is stored in the web server a system may be configured to enable plural projectors to obtain and project the same image data stored in the web server .

According to another aspect of the present embodiment by realizing a client function for cooperating with the web server a flexible solution may be provided in which the projector may be connected to various server systems according to the system environment of the user. However since the projector may be unable to rewrite software according to the various server systems the web server includes a predetermined interface e.g. index file in JSON format for enabling the projector to establish connection with the web server . By employing a simple interface additional software for establishing connection with the projector may be easily developed at the server application side for example.

A second embodiment of the present invention relates to an automatic slideshow function for displaying files one after the other at predetermined time intervals. It is noted that features of the second embodiment that may be identical to those of the first embodiment are given the same reference numerals and their descriptions are omitted.

For example the UI screen generating unit may use the setting value designated for the slideshow display interval setting stored in the setting value storage unit and direct the timer to measure the switching interval of a slideshow. The UI screen generating unit may direct the content file obtaining unit to obtain a next content file to be displayed after every slideshow switching interval so that a content file being projected may be switched at predetermined time intervals.

After performing step S of the UI screen generating unit may proceed to step S in a case where an automatic slideshow is in progress. It is noted that whether an automatic slideshow is in progress may be determined based on a status value stored in a memory for example.

In step S the UI screen generating unit refers to the value set up for the slideshow display interval setting that is stored in the setting value storage unit and sets the timer measure the slideshow display interval.

In step S the UI screen generating unit may receive notification of a key input made by the operator and accepted via the operations unit from the operations unit control unit or receive notification of the elapse of the slideshow display interval timer fire from the timer .

In the case where the UI screen generating unit receives notification of the elapse of the slideshow display interval timer fire S YES the UI screen generating unit proceeds to step S to determine the next content file to be displayed after which the process goes back to step S of .

In the case where the UI screen generating unit receives notification of a key input accepted via the operations unit S NO the UI screen generating unit proceeds to step S to determine whether the accepted key input corresponds to a menu button menu key .

If the accepted key input corresponds to a menu button S YES the UI screen generating unit goes back to step S to generate and project a file list screen . If the accepted key input does not correspond to the menu button S NO the UI screen generating unit proceeds to step S. In step S the UI screen generating unit performs a process step similar to step S. That is the UI screen generating unit determines whether the accepted key input corresponds to a left key PREVIOUS FILE or a right key NEXT FILE . If the accepted key input corresponds to the left key PREVIOUS FILE or the right key NEXT FILE S YES the UI screen generating unit determines the file name of the previous or next content file to be displayed and goes back to step S.

If the accepted key input does not correspond to the left key PREVIOUS FILE or the right key NEXT FILE S NO the UI screen generating unit proceeds to step S to determine whether the accepted key input corresponds to a select button select key .

If the accepted key input does not correspond to a select button S NO the UI screen generating unit goes back to step S. If the accepted key input corresponds to the select button S YES the UI screen generating unit proceeds to step S.

In step S the UI screen generating unit determines whether an automatic slideshow is in progress. If an automatic slideshow is in progress S YES the UI screen generating unit stops the automatic slideshow and cancels the time measuring operations of the timer S and goes back to step S. On the other hand if an automatic slideshow is not in progress S NO the UI screen generating unit executes a new automatic slideshow and then returns to step S.

It is noted that in a digital signage application that may be implemented by an image display apparatus such as a liquid crystal display arranged outdoors or at a storefront for example images are automatically updated without reliance on key operations. The present embodiment realizes an automatic slideshow function by downloading a file from the web server and displaying the file at predetermined time intervals using the timer . Thus the automatic slideshow function of the present embodiment may be effectively used to realize digital signage.

A third embodiment of the present invention relates to updating the index information retained by the UI screen generating unit . It is noted that features of the third embodiment that may be identical to those of the first and or second embodiment are given the same reference numerals and their descriptions are omitted.

In the first embodiment index information is updated when the directory is switched. When the projector continues to project a content file based on index information initially obtained from the web server the projector may encounter issues when a content file is added or deleted at the web server .

For example when the projector continues to project a content file based on index information initially obtained from the web server a content file that has been added later cannot be displayed. Also when a content file is deleted at the web server the projector may be unable to obtain the content file. Accordingly in the third embodiment the index information retained by the UI screen generating unit is arranged to be updated.

In step S of when the accepted key input corresponds to the left key or the right key S YES the UI screen generating unit proceeds to step S. In step S the UI screen generating unit designates a URL for obtaining an index file and directs the index obtaining unit to obtain the designated index file. The index obtaining unit sends a request for the designated index file to the web server via the communication control unit .

In step S the index obtaining unit receives the designated index file from the web server via the communication control unit . The index analyzing unit analyzes the received index file. The UI screen generating unit receives index information that is converted into a format that may be processed by the UI screen generating unit from the index obtaining unit .

In step S the UI screen generating unit determines the previous or next content file to be displayed and then goes back to step S.

It is noted that the content file currently being displayed may possibly be deleted at the web server . Thus in determining the previous or next file to be displayed in step S in the case where the currently displayed content file is deleted from the received index information the UI screen generating unit may additionally list the file name of the currently displayed content file in the index information according to alphabetical order for example and determine the previous or next content file coming before or after the currently displayed content file.

The process steps shown in may be performed when the setting value for an index updating during projection setting is designated as valid in the setting value screen for example. The index updating during projection setting may indicate whether an index information updating process to be performed upon obtaining a new content file from the web server is valid or invalid for example.

In one modified embodiment the process steps of may be performed between steps S and S or between steps S and S of . By implementing the index information updating process of in the automatic slideshow display process of according to the second embodiment the index information updating function may be realized in addition to the automatic slideshow function.

In the present embodiment an updated index file may be obtained before obtaining a new content file to be displayed so that the index information retained by the UI screen generating unit may be updated. In another embodiment an updated index file may be obtained at predetermined time intervals rather than at the time of obtaining a new content file.

The index information updating process may be performed at predetermined time intervals in a case where content files are not deleted or added on a frequent basis so that overhead may be reduced for example. In one embodiment the index file reacquisition timing may be adjusted from the setting value screen by enabling a setting value to be designated for an index information updating interval setting for example.

According to an aspect of the present embodiment when a content file is added or deleted or some other change is implemented at the web server the change may be reflected in the index information retained by the UI screen generating unit . For example in the context of a digital signage application content files to be delivered may be dynamically changed to realize effective and responsive digital signage display.

A fourth embodiment of the present invention relates to starting an automatic slideshow function when the power is turned on. It is noted that features of the present embodiment that may be identical to those of the first through third embodiment are given the same reference numerals and their descriptions are omitted.

The automated demo setting may indicate whether an automatic slideshow starting process to be performed when the power is turned on is valid or invalid an access number and a directory for example. It is noted that the directory included in the automated demo setting may be used as the CURRENT HIERARCHY see when generating a URL.

In step S the power of the projector B is turned on. In steps S S the projector B initializes hardware starts an OS operating system and initializes a network interface I F . In step S the standby screen control unit determines whether the automated demo setting is valid. If the automated demo setting is valid the standby screen control unit proceeds to step S and prompts the UI screen generating unit to start an automatic slideshow.

In step S the standby screen control unit reads setting values for the root URL index file the automated demo the access number and the directory that are stored in the setting value storage unit and uses the read setting values to prompt the UI screen generating unit to perform the process steps of from step S. In this way the standby screen control unit prompts the UI screen generating unit to start an automatic slideshow.

It is noted that in step S if the automated demo setting is invalid the standby screen control unit may display a standby screen as is shown in for example and end the process of .

In a digital signage application for example content projection is preferably started right after the power is turned on without requiring complicated key operations at the projection site. Accordingly in the present embodiment setting information for establishing connection with the projection server and information indicating the validity of the automatic slideshow starting process to be performed right after the power is turned on are stored as setting values in the setting value storage unit and the standby screen control unit is arranged to read the setting values when the power is turned on and prompt the UI screen generating unit to start the automatic slideshow.

According to an aspect of the present embodiment index files and content files may be automatically obtained from the web server based on setting values stored in the setting value storage unit to start an automatic slideshow. In this way digital signage may be realized without requiring complicated key operations for example.

A fifth embodiment of the present invention relates to limiting the user authorized to designate the setting values of the projection server settings via the setting screen to a system administrator for example. It is noted that features of the fifth embodiment that may be identical to those of the first through fourth embodiments are given the same reference numerals and their descriptions are omitted.

In a case where the setting value for a setting change restriction setting is designated as valid in the setting screen for example the UI screen generating unit may display an authentication screen such as that shown in when a display request to display the setting screen is received. The setting change restriction setting may indicate whether the process for restricting the user authorized to designate the setting values for the projection server settings via the setting screen is valid or invalid for example.

In the case of designating setting values for the projection server settings from an external tool using a web API an authentication mechanism such as basic authentication or digest authentication may be used to authenticate a user based on authentication information such as an ID and a password. shows an exemplary web API having authentication information for basic authentication added to the web API shown in . A web API such as that shown in may be used to designate setting values for the projection server settings from an external tool in the case where authentication is required.

According to an aspect of the present embodiment an operator may not be able to display the setting screen shown in unless the operator enters the correct authentication information such as an ID and a password of a system administrator. In this way an unauthorized user may be prevented from erroneously changing the projection server settings. In the present embodiment the setting value for the setting change restriction setting that may be designated via the setting screen for example may not be changed from valid to invalid unless the correct authentication information such as the ID and the password of the system administrator is entered. In this way an unauthorized user who is not the system administrator may be prevented from erroneously changing the settings so that stable operations of the projection system may be ensured for example.

According to another aspect of the present embodiment the setting change restriction according to the present embodiment may be implemented in conjunction with remote management of the settings from an external tool using a web API. In this way stable central management of plural projectors C may be enabled so that the management load may be reduced in a digital signage application for example.

A sixth embodiment of the present invention relates to registering plural web servers in a projection system.

It is noted that in the first through fifth embodiments one web server is registered in the projection system . In these embodiments when a user wishes to obtain and project content files from plural web servers the user must change the registered settings to switch from one web server to another web server . Further when the user neglects to reset the settings back to the original settings connection may not be established with the original web server . This may cause an inconvenience when the projector is used by plural users for example. Accordingly the sixth embodiment of the present invention enables registration of plural web servers in the projection system. It is noted that features of the sixth embodiment that may be identical to those of the first through fifth embodiments are given the same reference numerals and their descriptions are omitted.

Upon obtaining an index file from the web server the projector uses the root URL and the index file name designated in the setting screen shown in . Accordingly in the case where plural web servers are registered server setting information such as that shown in is stored for each of the web servers .

In one embodiment when an access number input is accepted the projector uses the title included in the server setting information of to project a server list screen . shows an example of the server list screen that is displayed in the present embodiment.

When one of the titles of the web server is selected from the server list screen the projector obtains the server setting information of the web server identified by the selected title. The projector then proceeds to perform the process steps of from step S. It is noted that in the present embodiment the setting value for DIRECTORY included in the sever setting information of is used as the CURRENT DIRECTORY to generate the root URL in step S.

In another embodiment since there may be cases where the web servers do not use a common access number the access number input may be requested after the web server is selected from the server list screen shown in . In a further embodiment whether to accept the access number input before or after the web server is selected may be designated via the setting screen for example.

After the web server is selected and the access number input is accepted the projector may display a file list screen such as that shown in . In the present embodiment the file list screen may include a button for returning to the server list screen e.g. TO SERVER LIST button .

According to an aspect of the present embodiment plural web servers may be registered and the registered web servers may be indicated in the server list screen . In this way a user may select a web server via the same user interface as that used for selecting a directory or a content file so that the web server to be accessed may be easily switched through simple operations.

A seventh embodiment of the present invention relates returning to the standby screen when user operations are not detected for a predetermined time period.

When a user moves away from the projector while the file list screen or the file projection screen is displayed confidential information stored in the web server may possibly be leaked to outsiders. Accordingly in the seventh embodiment of the present invention the standby screen is displayed when user operations are not detected for a predetermined time period. It is noted that features of the seventh embodiment that may be identical to those of the first through sixth embodiments are given the same reference numerals and their descriptions are omitted.

The present embodiment may be implemented when the setting value for an auto reset setting that may be adjusted at the setting screen is designated as valid for example. In step S or step S of when a user operation input is not accepted over a predetermined time period the standby screen control unit of the projector B shown in stops the projection server function and displays the standby screen shown in . The auto reset setting may indicate whether the process of returning to the standby screen is valid or invalid and the predetermined time period that is to elapse before returning to the standby screen e.g. minutes for example.

In one embodiment the projector B may disconnect any connections that are established upon returning to the standby screen. In another embodiment the projector B may be arranged to refrain from returning to the standby screen even if the auto reset setting is designated as valid when an automatic slideshow is in progress.

According to an aspect of the present embodiment when a user moves away from the projector B for a relatively long period of time the projector B may automatically return to the standby screen after a predetermined time period so that information leakage may be prevented for example.

An eight embodiment of the present invention relates to connecting an IC card reader to the projector and realizing access restriction based on IC card authentication information.

When the access number for gaining access to the projection server function is a relatively long number string operations for inputting the access number using the remote control may be cumbersome for the user and the user may be prone to make mistakes. Also when the access number is a long number string the user may have to write down the access number on a piece of paper for example which could lead to access number leakage. Accordingly in the eighth embodiment an IC card reader is connected to the projector and access restriction based on IC card authentication information is implemented. It is noted that features of the present embodiment that may be identical to those of the first through seventh embodiments are given the same reference numbers and their descriptions are omitted.

The IC card authentication unit obtains an IC card number from the IC card reader and uses the obtained IC card number to perform IC card authentication. The IC card authentication unit may perform IC card authentication based on an authentication server cooperation setting and authentication server information e.g. host user ID and password that may be designated via the setting screen shown in for example.

If authentication server cooperation is not designated the IC card authentication unit may use the IC card number obtained from the IC card reader as the access number. If authentication server cooperation is designated the IC card authentication unit may obtain an access number corresponding to the obtained IC card number from the IC card authentication server .

It is noted that in the present embodiment the setting screen shown in may indicate an access restriction type setting field as is shown in to enable designation of whether to implement access restriction based on an access number access restriction based on an IC card or access restriction based on an access number IC card.

In step S the UI screen generating unit displays the message PLEASE HOLD IC CARD in the input accepting screen. In step S the IC card reader waits for a user to hold an IC card so that it may recognize the IC card. In step S upon recognizing the IC card the IC card reader reads an IC card number from the IC card and provides the read IC card number to the IC card authentication unit .

Upon obtaining the IC card number from the IC card reader the IC card authentication unit proceeds to step S to determine whether cooperation with the authentication server is designated. If cooperation with the authentication server is not designated S NO the IC card authentication unit accepts the IC card number as the access number and proceeds to step S of . It is noted that in a case where cooperation with the authentication server is not designated the IC card authentication server may be omitted.

On the other hand if cooperation with the authentication server is designated S YES the IC card authentication unit proceeds to step S to establish connection with the IC card authentication server . In step S the IC card authentication unit logs into the IC card authentication server .

In step S the IC card authentication unit notifies the IC card authentication server of the IC card number. The IC card authentication server searches its directory using the IC card number as a key. In step S the IC card authentication server obtains an access number from the search result and notifies the IC card authentication unit of the obtained access number. The IC card authentication unit accepts the access number obtained from the IC card authentication server and proceeds to step S of .

According to an aspect of the present embodiment a user may gain access to the web server by simply holding an IC card over the IC card reader rather that having to input an access number via the remote control so that convenience of the projection system B may be improved. Also security may be reinforced by having the projector D cooperate with the IC card authentication server .

It is noted that the web server corresponds to an exemplary embodiment of a server apparatus of the present invention. The projectors A B C and D correspond to exemplary embodiments of an image display apparatus of the present invention. The projection unit corresponds to an exemplary embodiment of a display unit of the present invention. The URL generating unit corresponds to an exemplary embodiment of a location information generating unit of the present invention. The index obtaining unit corresponds to an exemplary embodiment of an index obtaining unit of the present invention. The UI screen generating unit corresponds to an exemplary embodiment of a list screen generating unit and a display screen generating unit of the present invention. The content file obtaining unit corresponds to an exemplary embodiment of an image data obtaining unit of the present invention. The setting command interpreting unit corresponds to an exemplary embodiment of a setting command accepting unit of the present invention. The setting screen corresponds to an exemplary embodiment of a setting accepting unit of the present invention. The IC card reader corresponds to an exemplary embodiment of a recording medium reading unit the IC card authentication server corresponds to an exemplary embodiment of an authentication apparatus and the IC card authentication unit corresponds to an exemplary embodiment of an authentication unit of the present invention. The URL corresponds to exemplary location information.

Further the present invention is not limited to these embodiments and numerous variations and modifications may be made without departing from the scope of the present invention.

The present application is based on and claims the benefit of the priority dates of Japanese Patent Application Nos. 2011 242718 and 2012 226000 filed on Nov. 4 2011 and Oct. 11 2012 respectively the entire contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference.

