---

title: System and method for providing user lifecycle management and service orchestration of multiple media services across multiple display screens
abstract: A system and method are provided for enabling personalization and service coordination of media services across multiple devices. The method comprises providing a first module to interface with information technology infrastructure and media services provided by an operator or third parties; and providing, using the first module, service orchestration and user lifecycle management components to enable authorized and personalized access to multiple network operator services across multiple devices and services.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09357083&OS=09357083&RS=09357083
owner: UXP Systems Inc.
number: 09357083
owner_city: Toronto
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20120628
---
This application claims priority from U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 549 967 filed on Oct. 21 2011 the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.

The following relates to systems and methods for providing user lifecycle management and service orchestration of multiple media services across multiple display screens.

Telecommunications and cable operators may offer their services for consumption on a number of devices including smart phones tablet computers personal computers and televisions. These services may include without limitation video video on demand messaging voice and text voice and video calling voice and video conferencing home monitoring etc. Traditionally individuals consumed these telecommunications and cable operator services on specific individual device types. For example text messaging has been commonly limited to mobile phones. These specific device types which may include wireless phones home phones television set top boxes and home monitoring consoles are provisioned with credentials enabling the paying subscribers to access the specific services associated with these devices.

Currently the source billing systems that verify the good standing of a paying subscriber generally ties an account with subscribed services to a particular device instance e.g. a wireless phone number or to a household e.g. a television or home phone subscription . One billing account may have several subscribed services accessed by several individuals. Conversely a specific individual may have access to a set of services that are subscribed under several different billing accounts. This creates what can be a relatively complicated many to many account to subscription and subscription to individuals model.

Further complicating the many to many accounts to subscriptions and subscriptions to individuals model certain subscriptions such as video packages e.g. for television services home phone services and home monitoring services may be consumed by several members in a household on a single subscription. These services are often referred to as household services. Other services such as those offering wireless voice and data services are typically consumed by single individuals. These services are often referred to as personal services.

It has been recognized that as individuals increasingly consume both household and personal services on multiple devices a level of personalization is required that can authenticate a single user or individual or pseudo user to their specific set of household and personal services on any screen or device. For example an individual may want to access their personal wireless messaging service their household TV service and their household home phone service across a PC a tablet computer and a smart phone in an integrated and seamless way. Moreover the individual may want to do so in a manner that simplifies the user experience eliminating the need to provide multiple sets of authentication to the services and provides the good standing of these services by giving the billing subscription details across one or more accounts.

To address the above problems the different subscribed services and service credentials may be federated across all relevant billing accounts and associated to a specific user a process commonly referred to as federated identity or federated user management.

It has been found that in a network operator environment federated identity management systems traditionally only provide an association between individual identities and profile information and a set of associated services service credentials and service preferences. These federated identity management systems do not further implement an integrated mechanism to maintain real time or frequent information exchange between network operator billing account and network operator service systems to ensure the ongoing validity or coherency of subscription credentials. Such federated identity management systems also do not implement an integrated mechanism to maintain service specific data to ensure that an individual s user experience across devices screens and households locations remains consistent from one device or screen to the next.

The following addresses these drawbacks by providing a user lifecycle management and multiservice orchestration engine which is adapted to enable the delivery of a wide range of cable telecommunications and third party services in a personalized and authorized manner across multiple screens and devices.

In one aspect there is provided a computing platform and framework that utilizes a user lifecycle management and service orchestration system ULSO . The ULSO comprises a service orchestration component and a user lifecycle management component which work together to enable a seamless authorized and personalized user experience of multiple network operator services across multiple screens and services.

The platform may be used to create multiple users associated with an existing telecommunications or cable operator subscription billing account whereby the multiple users retain a permanent association with the pre existing telecommunications or cable subscription account.

In another aspect a data model is provided which comprises a user an operator and third party services a personal profile and preferences session state authentication credentials and digital signatures of each user or pseudo user.

The user and its associated operator and third party services personal profiles and preferences session state authentication credentials and digital signatures may be modeled by accessing existing data structures resident in telecommunications and cable operator customer care billing and network service systems.

The computing platform may also be configured to maintain the coherency of credential and service information between the user lifecycle management component and the existing data structures of a telecommunications and cable operator customer care billing and network service systems such as voice video messaging address book home management and other 3party non operator systems.

The computing platform may achieve the coherency of credentials using the service orchestration component by verifying on an ongoing basis the authentication and billing account credentials associated with a user while the user is consuming operator and or third party services across one or more screens.

In another aspect the ULSO may use user lifecycle management and service orchestration components to maintain the session state of an user for any service the user consumes as the user consumes that service in order to allow the resumption or synchronization of a service experience as the user moves from screen to screen.

The computing platform may also employ performance efficient digital signatures to periodically monitor the credential coherency and the session coherency of user across multiple screens.

The computing platform may also include an ULSO console on or in association with each device which includes client side user lifecycle management and service orchestration components to provide credential and or session coherency while a user is not connected to the operator network or service. The user lifecycle management and service orchestration components both device client and server side are also configured to perform similar operations when the user is online and thus connected to the operator network.

The ULSO may also be configured to utilize an application programming interface API to enable multiple disparate operator network and 3party services to be supported by the user lifecycle management and service orchestration components therefore creating a user experience framework for multiple applications across disparate screens. The API may be operable to decompose operator network service capabilities and recompose the service capabilities in the user experience framework enabling combinations or mash ups of network operator services.

There is provided a method of enabling user lifecycle management and service orchestration of media services across multiple devices the method comprising providing a first module to interface with information technology infrastructure and media services provided by an operator or third parties and providing using the first module service orchestration and user lifecycle management components to enable authorized and personalized access to multiple network operator services across multiple devices and services.

There is also provided a method of enabling session coherency for a media service the method comprising receiving at a first module an activity detected by a second module during use of the media service the second module being provided on a first device operable to consume the media service the second module for interfacing between applications on the first device and the first module the first module storing the activity in association with a profile for user authenticated to access the media service receiving at the first module a request from another instance of the second module on a second device to resume consumption of the media service on the second device the other instance of the second module for interfacing between applications on the second device and the first module authenticating the user in association with the second device obtaining the activity stored with the profile and providing the activity information to the third module to enable the media service to resume according to the activity detected on the second module.

There is also provided a method of enabling credential coherency for a user accessing media services using multiple devices the method comprising receiving at a first module a first digital signature on a change to the user comparing the first digital signature to a second digital signature accessible to the first module the second digital signature having been generated in association with the user at a previous time and if a discrepancy is detected between the first and second digital signatures resolving the user profile to reflect the change to the user.

It will be appreciated that for simplicity and clarity of illustration where considered appropriate reference numerals may be repeated among the figures to indicate corresponding or analogous elements. In addition numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the examples described herein. However it will be understood by those of ordinary skill in the art that the examples described herein may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known methods procedures and components have not been described in detail so as not to obscure the examples described herein. Also the description is not to be considered as limiting the scope of the examples described herein.

It will be appreciated that the examples and corresponding diagrams used herein are for illustrative purposes only. Different configurations and terminology can be used without departing from the principles expressed herein. For instance components and modules can be added deleted modified or arranged with differing connections without departing from these principles.

Turning now to the figures illustrates an example of a computing framework or platform for providing user lifecycle management and service orchestration of media services across multiple screens. The computing platform comprises a user lifecycle management and service orchestration system ULSO which is operable to interact with an operator information technology IT infrastructure and the operator network services provided thereby to enable user management and service orchestration across multiple device screens seamlessly to maintain session and credential coherency. The ULSO comprises a service orchestration component to manage and orchestrate such a seamless multi screen experience and user management component to manage authenticate and maintain the coherency of a user s credentials. Hereinafter a user will refer to an individual or other entity that consumes media services whether personally through a household or otherwise.

The computing platform also comprises in at least one device a ULSO console which may be embedded or otherwise associated with an operator network service application on such devices . The ULSO console enables each device to obtain and consume media services provided by the operator network on its associated device while maintaining session and credential coherency in particular in offline scenarios as discussed below. This also enables a user to seamlessly consume any given service across multiple devices in a consistent fashion. As shown in the ULSO may also be utilized by devices not having or requiring an ULSO console . For example devices that include a web interface may be capable of accessing both the operator network service and the ULSO via the web interface. It can be appreciated that such devices may or may not utilize an operator network service application residing on the device . For example if the network service is accessed through a web browser the ULSO can be accessed directly through the web browser.

Turning now to further detail of an example configuration for the computing platform is provided. In this example configuration the ULSO comprises user lifecycle management component for registering and maintaining users and associated profiles and credentials. The user lifecycle management component comprises a user registration and maintenance module for registering and maintaining individual users an account subscription association module for associating operator account subscriptions and services with particular users a user profile and credentials module for creating and maintaining profiles and storing credentials and a security and utilities module.

The ULSO also comprises a service orchestration component for managing credentials and sessions to provide seamless multiple screen experiences. The service orchestration component in this example comprises a proxy and utilities a credential coherency module for maintaining credential coherency a session coherency module for maintaining session coherency and a service modeling module for integrating the operator network service application and the operator network services . The ULSO also comprises a data objects access DAO and interface layer to enable the appropriate operator network services to be consumed by the devices via the operator network service applications as explained in greater detail below. The ULSO also includes an administration user interface UI and API for interacting with the operator IT infrastructure

Each device and any native device applications support the ULSO console to enable seamless consumption of the operator network services using the operator network service applications while maintaining session and credential coherency. The ULSO consoles interact with the ULSO via an ULSO framework API .

The ULSO interacts with operator systems infrastructure to enable the devices to consume services such as IPTV and video services messaging services voice calling services video on demand digital video recording services electronic program guide services etc. By providing the administration UI and API the ULSO can also interact with the operator IT infrastructure s CRM and billing systems SSO and entitlements system and 3party IT systems as shown in .

As discussed above by using the computing platform a telecom or cable operator may offer a household or billing account holder the opportunity to create multiple users within a billing account each user having their own set of subscribed services and further a set of profiling data specific to that user. The operator may implement a registration process whereby an account holder creates an individual user and associates service subscriptions and required credentials to that user by linking these users to their pre existing billing accounts and specific underlying services. The network operator may also allow third party services including social media and internet services to be associated to these users via a user lifecycle management API. Each user has an associated username and password to allow an individual who logs into any screen device with their username and password to access a specific set of operator and third party services that the user should have access to across multiple screens.

It can be appreciated that while the user may use a username and password to access the services associated to it the required downstream credentials from the associated billing system e.g. subscription information and the associated network service system e.g. service password information are kept up to date and valid as stored within the ULSO to ensure authorized use of a service. Using the computing platform described herein the service orchestration component ensures this validity termed hereinafter as credential coherency. If the credentials associated with a specific user lose coherency and result in a scenario where user should not or cannot access a system the service orchestration component can be used to prevent access to the ULSO until such time that credential coherency is restored.

As discussed above the service orchestration component is also used to ensure session coherency for a user as the individual user consumes services from one screen and then moves to the next screen and the next screen etc. The service orchestration component by using a security mechanism such as digital signatures maintains an ongoing signature of the activities carried out on one screen by a user and incorporates the context of those activities for the user upon their next screen login. In a typical cable operator example the service orchestration component would ensure session coherency by logging a time stamp where a user paused the viewing of a video or other media asset on a smart phone such that the user could resume the video at the exact place of pause upon authentication on another device such as a tablet. The ability of the ULSO to tie session and credential coherency to a user in a network operator environment delivers an integrated computing platform for providing seamless authorized and personalized service access across multiple screens.

In one example implementation the user management component and service orchestration component of the ULSO reside in the cable and telecom operator s technology systems architecture. A toolkit may also be provided to enable client side capabilities e.g. using an ULSO console . While the user is online the user is connected to the ULSO residing on the operator s infrastructure ensuring central coordination of session and credential coherency. By implementing user lifecycle management and service orchestration capabilities on the user s devices session coherency and credential coherency are maintained to the extent possible even while the user is not online see also described below . In this scenario once a user returns online the service orchestration component can be used to restore the coherency or lack thereof between the offline digital signature created during the offline interaction and the most prior online digital signature stored by the ULSO .

The ULSO and its user lifecycle management component and service orchestration component supports multiple services contained in one user interface container instance e.g. the ULSO console that is deployed across multiple screens. This would allow the cable or telecom operator to deliver multiple seamless personalized services to individuals in an integrated manner allowing re use of the ULSO across the entire portfolio offering of services including video voice messaging home monitoring and other next generation services.

It can be appreciated that the ULSO may also be used with interactive video services to deliver personalized seamless multi screen IP based television video on demand and electronic program guide services. A user with a profile stored in the ULSO may access subscribed channels presented in a personalized manner on any screen to which they are authenticated. The ULSO may store in the user profile a selection of favorite channels personal reminders to watch TV shows PVR DVR recordings and session data for specific videos including pause and resume data tailored to an individual. The ULSO may also facilitate interactive video features including messaging voting and social media using other network operator or third party services integrated to ULSO . The ULSO may also deliver parental control capabilities to a parent in a household allowing the control of content viewed by a child user while releasing any restrictions to content on associated parent users. The computing platform described herein may also link all users to a pre existing household subscription while allowing an individual personalized profile and experience to individual household members.

The ULSO may also be used with messaging services to enable the retrieval of and response to voice and text messages from any device in a consistent manner. A user may have one or more message repositories associated with a profile and access those repositories upon authentication to the system. The ULSO would assure that the user s credentials for accessing those message stores are current using the credential coherence methods in the service orchestration engine. The ULSO s session coherence would also ensure that any message handling activities undertaken on one screen or device would be reflected upon the user s next session with another device .

The ULSO may be used with voice and video calling services. Cable and telecommunications operators who want to offer calling from a number of devices including tablets personal computers and smart phones using one phone number may implement an ULSO to allow an individual user to authenticate to a virtual phone number and make calls from any device. The ULSO s credential coherence would ensure that the user has the appropriate credentials for making the phone call while the ULSO s session coherence would create a log of the calling activities from each and every device to ensure that all call history and activity would be viewable from any device regardless of the device s origination or termination of a specific call.

The ULSO may be used with cable and telecom home monitoring services. Cable and telecom operators who offer home monitoring and home control services could allow an individual access to their home monitoring console via any device . The ULSO s credential coherence would provide the appropriate assurance of authentication to the home monitoring console while the ULSO s session coherence would provide the logging of all activities undertaken in order to be able to report a history of home monitoring events to the end user on any device .

The ULSO may also be used by the network operator for third party services. Cable and telecom operators may want to offer their customers individualized access to personalized services like social media e mail network address book personal storage vault and more services in an integrated way by leveraging the ULSO to store the third party login and service information and orchestrate the user experience by facilitating login logout and other session user experience activities.

The ULSO may also be used by the network operator to combine any number of services including those described above. By deploying a common service orchestration component for multiple services a network operator s multi screen user interface may present seamless access to a number of service features in a single user experience process flow.

The ULSO as described herein aims to be fully conformant for adaptation to existing service provider systems specifically customer care entitlement authorization billing and network service systems. The user data model shown in may be extended to accommodate additional data stored by cable telecom and other over the top companies that are relevant for maintaining session coherence and credential coherence.

The following examples illustrate where user based service orchestration may be particularly advantageous.

In a first example a user has downloaded an on demand pay per view movie from their local cable operator. This download has occurred on the individual s tablet computer and the terms of the purchase allow viewing access of the video for anyone associated with the user s billing account i.e. the household for a period of 24 hours on any device provided that a user on a device can provide some proof of payment for the video.

The individual in this scenario it can be assumed made the purchase by logging into the tablet computer by specifying the user created using the computing platform described herein which is linked back to the pre existing cable operator billing account. The service orchestration component ensures the population of the purchased credential to the user and to other users associated with the billing account who should have similar viewing credentials of that purchased video. In this manner credential coherence is achieved by the ULSO .

The individual proceeds to watch 15 minutes of this video on the tablet and stops the video. The ULSO applies a digital signature to the user to mark the moment at which the video is paused for that individual. While other members of the household may use their user profiles to access the same video and start it anew given that their user profiles also have an associated purchase credential the individual who has paused the video may use the ULSO to authenticate themselves on a separate screen within the 24 hour period and resume the video at the exact spot at which it was paused. The ULSO would also ensure interfaces to the billing and digital rights management system are used so that for all users the rights to view the video would expire upon completion of the 24 hour period.

Using the computing platform described herein the user who has paused and resumed the video now has the association of that viewing experience associated with his user profile. In this manner session coherence is achieved. Not only has the ULSO enabled the individual a pause and resume experience but the ULSO can also be used by personalization engines to deliver specific recommendations to that individual based on that viewing experience.

In another example a user is able to access their household voice messages on any of their devices by interacting with the ULSO and thus the telecommunications operator s infrastructure . These devices may include a tablet a television a personal computer etc. and via an association the user has made the devices may use the user lifecycle management component of the ULSO to associate the voice message service data and credentials e.g. voicemail password while the service orchestration component ensures the session coherency of the data as the user moves from screen to screen retrieving and checking messages. If the user authenticates to any screen the voicemail service and the most recent state of that service can be presented.

In this example the user downloads their voice messages on their tablet and deletes several of these messages while offline e.g. while on a subway train. Upon arriving at home the end user again logs into their profile again on the tablet. The service orchestration engine ensures credential coherency and logs them onto the service. Next the service orchestration component utilizing the digital signatures acknowledges the lack of coherency in the session logs created by the offline message deletion. The ULSO then reconciles the session coherency by deleting the appropriate messages.

In this example it is assumed that prior to log out the user changes the password on the voicemail service using the tablet interface. Minutes later another user that also has access to this voicemail service authenticates to their network operator user interface using their individual username and password. Immediately after login the service orchestration component detects a lack of coherency between the voicemail password stored by the network service itself e.g. the voicemail system and the user that is still holding the old password. The service orchestration component may then initiate a process for the user to update the password to the current one thereby restoring credential coherency.

The ULSO is shown within a cable or telecommunications operator environment in . Using the user lifecycle management component an individual subscriber of the operator s services may create a user or group pseudo user and associate operator provided subscribed and other 3party services with that user. As shown by way of example in the individual may use a web or application interface contained within the operator network service application to create a user by requesting to register such a user at . The operator network service application uses the ULSO Framework API in order to access the user lifecycle management component s user registration and maintenance component at for the creation of a user. The individual may then create the user at which is registered by the user lifecycle management component at . Following creation of the user the individual may create a profile of information around that user at and have credentials established e.g. by specifying a name password s preference s e mail address es etc. This may be done using the user lifecycle management component s user profile and credentials component and the user profile and credentials are stored by the user lifecycle management component at .

Once the creation of the user is complete the user may associate the user profile to existing services to which the individual is subscribed to and pays for via the operator as shown in . The individual may use the ULSO console or operator network service application to initiate a service to user association routine at . Using the operator network service application the individual passes billing account information at such as the billing account number and other security credentials to the ULSO user lifecycle management layer via the ULSO framework API . For the operator services which are billed by the operator CRM Billing systems the user lifecycle management layer may also use the DAO and Interface Layer to access the user s relevant billing account or accounts and use the user lifecycle management layer s account subscription association to link the specific subscribed services to that user. The account details and credentials are passed onto the operator billing systems via the DAO and Interface Layer at and also via the Administration User Interface API and the operator IT infrastructure may verify credentials at . Having received the account information the operator billing system returns any found accounts and associated service subscriptions at such as TV subscription or voice service subscriptions to the user lifecycle management layer . The user lifecycle management layer then uses the ULSO framework API to provide the account and service details to the operator network service application at . The operator network service application then enables the individual to select the services for that user at . Using the user lifecycle management layer s account subscription association component the user can use the operator network service application to select which individual service subscriptions should be associated with that user profile at . The subscription details for each user along with preferences such as parental controls purchasing authority personalization details etc. are stored within the user lifecycle management layer s user profile and credentials component at . It can be seen that by using the computing platform described herein it is possible to create multiple users for any given billing account or number of billing accounts in a many to many data model.

The service orchestration component s service modeling component integrates with the operator network service application and operator network services of the operator s infrastructure to provide the individual with access to the specific services that the individual associates against their user profile. Information such as voicemail passwords video on demand passwords and other network service credentials details are associated via the service orchestration layer s service modeling component using the DAO Interface Layer to attempt to access a service. Once the appropriate credentials are entered these credentials are also stored in the user lifecycle management component s user profile and credentials component.

Turning now to a user may use the operator network service application on a device to request access to a service at . The user lifecycle management component determines the user making the request at and may then return a request to the user at to enter the appropriate authentication credentials for the ULSO such as a username and password. The incorporation of the ULSO console into the operator network service application enables the individual to enter their username and password at . This enables the individual to use their associated services in a personalized way. The individual may then be authenticated with the ULSO using the username and password. The username and password are sent to the user management layer at via the ULSO framework API . Once authenticated by the user lifecycle management component at the user lifecycle management layer uses the network service credentials stored in the user profile and credentials component at to invoke the service orchestration layer to access the associated network services at using the services subscription and network service credentials. The operator network services may then verify the credentials at and provide the service to the device at . The operator network service application may then consume the service at . It can also be seen in that at the service orchestration component may also provide data associated with the service.

For example in addition to providing the authentication details required for use once the operator network service application invokes the use of the operator network service as shown in the service orchestration s service modeling component may assist the operator network service application in accessing the operator network service by providing the operator network service application with the data required to use the network operator service and orchestrating the process by which the operator network service application accesses the network operator service . For example the service modeling component may orchestrate the process of a VoIP session initiation protocol SIP client embedded in operator network service application registering a user to a network operator service VoIP switch in order to make a phone call from any operator network service application .

The computing platform also ensures that ongoing access to the user s network operator and third party services are provided on the basis of a valid billing subscription and network service credentials by use of the service orchestration component s credential coherency component. The credential coherency component makes use of digital signatures associated with the user that reflect the billing and the network services credentials required to permit authorized use of the network services. When the user authenticates with the ULSO to obtain their services and as the user uses these services the credential coherency component compares digital signatures with the user against digital signatures created by the service orchestration component s service modeling component during the use of the network services. Any mismatch of digital signatures for example a mismatch created if the password of a network service stored in the user lifecycle management component cannot gain access to a network service that the service modeling component is attempting to enable for the user via the DAO and interface Layer will result in a coherency mismatch and a corresponding attempt by the service orchestration component to reconcile the mismatch via a user correction to the password using the ULSO framework API and the operator network service application . This method for ensuring credential coherency is enabled across multiple operator network service application simultaneously via the ULSO framework API .

The resulting capability enabled for the individual user using the ULSO as described above is seamless integrated multi screen access to one or more individually associated network operator services while ensuring that the billing subscription and network operator access credentials are intact throughout the user experience.

The computing platform also allows for individual users to use their network operator services across multiple screens via the operator network service application using the service modeling components. A service such as a video voice messaging or other service is requested for use by a user who has been authenticated using the operator network service application and user management component as described above.

The service orchestration component s service modeling component can decompose the individual capabilities of a network operator service using the DAO and Interface Layer . This allows specific network operator service capabilities to be presented to the operator network service application and used via the service modeling component. For example specific TV show information that is accessed via the service orchestration component using the DAO and interface layer from an EPG system resident in network operator systems can be exposed to any number of operator network service application including a messaging application where an individual wanted to send information about a specific show to another individual via a messaging application that had an integrated TV show data sharing feature.

The computing platform further enables personalization of content for a specific network operator service in addition to personalization of services using the user lifecycle management component and the service orchestration component in with each other. For example the user lifecycle management layer can use specific user subscription and profile information to filter data such as EPG data that is retrieved from the operator network services to show only TV channels and shows subscribed to and preferred by the individual user and present that specifically personalized information to the end user via the operator network service application using the ULSO framework API and the ULSO console .

The computing platform also achieves a seamless experience across multiple operator network service applications by utilizing the service orchestration component s service modeling and session coherency components. As the service modeling component orchestrates the user experience of the operator network services as described above each activity a user undertakes is logged and stored against the user in the user lifecycle management component . In this manner if an individual terminates an activity on one operator network service application and later authenticates to the system via another operator network service application the service orchestration component using data stored in user lifecycle management layer is able to resume the activity undertaken in the previous operator network service application . To achieve this the service orchestration component s service modeling component informs the operator network service application to restore the operator network service session at given the context of the last interaction as it was stored in the user lifecycle management component . This process shown in by way of example illustrates session coherency.

Turning now to a first ULSO console at a first device detects an activity during use of a service at . For example the ULSO console may detect via the operator network service application that the individual has paused a video. The ULSO console notifies the ULSO of the activity at . The service orchestration component logs the activity and adds this to the profile for the user at by accessing the user lifecycle management component and having the user lifecycle management component store the activity at .

At a later time if the same service is to be resumed on a different device the individual which may be the same individual or a different individual may log into the ULSO at . The service orchestration component authenticates the user at and obtains the stored activity from the user lifecycle management component at . The activity information may then be provided to the operator network service application at . The operator network service application then enables the individual that has been authenticated for that user to resume the service at . Consumption of the service may then resume at . For example the user may log in on a different device and pick up the video from the same place that it was paused using the previous device . It can also be seen in that the user lifecycle management and service orchestration components may utilize steps shown in to access the network services in order to resume consumption on the next device .

It can be appreciated that the computing platform may include additional middleware systems in addition to the infrastructure for the operator network services the operator IT infrastructure or other intermediate points between the systems described herein. These middleware systems may serve to aggregate and or expose data and or processes resident in the downstream operator systems and in order to reduce the number of integration points in the computing platform .

The ULSO console embeds the service orchestration and user lifecycle management capabilities as described herein on the individual s operator network service application in order to store data and manage processes locally on a device that is hosting the operator network service application . This allows faster performance and access to personalized services and content even when the individual is not connected to the operator infrastructure and or is offline. It may occur that an individual user wishes to authenticate to the user lifecycle management component via the operator network service application to carry out some activities related to a network operator service even when the individual is not connected to the network operator s infrastructure.

The user lifecycle management component on the console uses a database to locally store information about the individual s user and preferences. Similarly the service orchestration component on the console uses the database to log and store all of the user s activities while the individual is offline. In a manner similar to that described above while the user is not connected to the operator network services the service orchestration component employs digital signatures to capture any session or credential changes during the user s offline interaction. Once online the ULSO s user lifecycle management component and service orchestration component restore a connection to the console components and via the ULSO framework API and synchronize and reconcile any discrepancies between digital signatures to ensure credential and session coherence. As described above the administration user interface API is a user interface and API for the operator or other administrative personnel to view manage and edit the ULSO and data.

As shown in in order to ensure seamless coherence of credentials as multiple individuals are using the same services across multiple screens the user lifecycle management and service orchestration components work together in concert in the ULSO . The process flow shown in follows the use of a single voicemail service by two registered users each of whom has associated a single home phone number and voicemail to their profile. In the process flow step the first household member logs into their ULSO via an operator network service application and has their profile information retrieved via the service orchestration component in step which retrieves it from the user lifecycle management component in step . The credentials for the voicemail service among other credentials are retrieved and passed via service orchestration component in step to the operator network service application in step . Once the user is logged into the voicemail service she may perform any tasks related to that service.

In step of however the user changes the voicemail password on the voicemail system using the operator network service application .

Credential coherence is required in this process flow when a second household user logs into the ULSO using the operator network service application . Similar to the process described in steps the user lifecycle management and service orchestration components would normally work in concert to seamlessly log the individual in to his shared voicemail service in steps . However due to the password change in step the password credentials passed to the operator network service application in step is incorrect i.e. the old password and therefore fails. Here the operator network service application uses the ULSO framework API to access the service orchestration component in step which initiates a process to the end user in step to update the password with the correct password for login. Credential coherence is achieved as the service orchestration component updates the new password as entered by the second household member in the user lifecycle management profile associated with that individual.

In a household member has purchased a video on demand asset for viewing across multiple screens from a cable operator. In this process flow in step an individual user with an association to the account that has the associated video asset logs into the ULSO . In step the service orchestration component initiates an update of the services associated with the individual to restore session coherency to that individual. In process flow step the operator IPTV system populates the operator network service application with the missing VOD asset show in step . The service orchestration component also updates the individual s user profile with this service content data in step .

In step the second user starts the video using the ULSO and the operator network service application and in turn the back end IPTV system begins streaming the video to the operator network service application at step . The service orchestration component receives an event notification of the commencement of the video by the second user.

At a certain point during the viewing of the VOD asset the second user decides to pause the video in step . This event is initiated in the operator network service application which in turn sends an instruction to the IPTV platform to pause the video in mid viewing. The ULSO console integrated with the operator network service application sends a corresponding instruction in step with log details of the point in time at which the video was paused. This pre supposes that the IPTV infrastructure is able to send such information to the ULSO or an alternate method of sending the time stamp of the video to the ULSO is available. In step the user lifecycle management component receives the session data of the VOD viewing event from the service orchestration component prior to logging the user out of the ULSO .

At some point in the future assuming the video asset is still available to the household per the terms of the purchase the second household user is authenticated by the ULSO at step on a device that is different than the one used in steps . As before the service orchestration component updates the services available to the end user and the user profile to the operator network service application in steps and . This update includes the information related to the user pausing the video referred to in this process flow. The information retrieved from the user lifecycle management component containing this VOD session information is sent to the operator network service application in step and presented to the user via the operator network service application in step at which point the option to resume the video is presented to the individual user. The user may then choose to resume the video. If they do so the operator network service application informed by the inventions service orchestration component is able to initiate the resumption of the video via the IPTV infrastructure in step .

It can be appreciated that the service orchestration and user lifecycle management components may be used as described in steps for any number of operator or third party services such as voice calling messaging social networking e commerce and more to enable a coherency of the user s personal session as they move from screen to screen permitting a user experience to continue seamlessly as an individual moves from device to device.

The steps or operations in the flow charts and diagrams described herein are just for example. There may be many variations to these steps or operations without departing from the principles discussed above. For instance the steps may be performed in a differing order or steps may be added deleted or modified.

It will be appreciated that any module or component exemplified herein that executes instructions may include or otherwise have access to computer readable media such as storage media computer storage media or data storage devices removable and or non removable such as for example magnetic disks optical disks or tape. Computer storage media may include volatile and non volatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Examples of computer storage media include RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by an application module or both. Any such computer storage media may be part of the computing platform or accessible or connectable thereto. Any application or module herein described may be implemented using computer readable executable instructions that may be stored or otherwise held by such computer readable media.

Although the above principles have been described with reference to certain specific examples various modifications thereof will be apparent to those skilled in the art as outlined in the appended claims.

