---

title: User authentication by combining speaker verification and reverse turing test
abstract: Methods and system for authenticating a user are disclosed. The present invention includes accessing a collection of personal information related to the user. The present invention also includes performing an authentication operation that is based on the collection of personal information. The authentication operation incorporates at least one dynamic component and prompts the user to give an audible utterance. The audible utterance is compared to a stored voiceprint.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08457974&OS=08457974&RS=08457974
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08457974
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120726
---
The present application is a continuation of application Ser. No. 11 004 548 filed Dec. 3 2004 entitled USER AUTHENTICATION BY COMBINING SPEAKER VERIFICATION AND REVERSE TURING TEST which is incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention generally pertains to systems and methods for user authentication. More specifically the present invention is related to a machine based system for authenticating a human user.

With the popularity of highly technological communication systems providers of services have begun to provide automated programs for client access. For example a client can access a banking account from various communication systems such as telephone systems and network systems to perform a variety of tasks. For example the Internet can be accessed through cellular phones personal data assistants PDAs desktops and kiosks. Such tasks include transferring money depositing money withdrawing money and accessing account balances. These service providers could potentially reveal valuable information about clients that is attractive to a hacker a person who illegally gains access to secured information .

Attacks by hackers include using computer programs that attempt to exploit automated service programs designed to accommodate human users. In many instances automated service programs are not configured to consistently differentiate between human access and machine access. Currently many service providers rely on a client s knowledge of certain secrets. For example such secrets can include PINS personal identification numbers passwords social security numbers and information not readily known to the public such as a user s mother s maiden name. However not only can these secrets be easily forgotten by a client their overuse can lead to easy discovery.

To heighten security biometric based approaches such as fingerprint and voiceprint technologies are becoming popular. For example when a user accesses an automated service program over the telephone the user is asked to supply a voice sample to a speech verification system to verify that the voice sample matches the voiceprint of the user they claim to be. However biometric based security samples can be copied or recorded for later use by a hacker. It is relatively easy to record a voice sample and replay the recording over the telephone. Speech verification systems are not always configured to differentiate between a live voice and a recording.

A Reverse Turing Test RTT has been utilized to determine whether a human or machine is requesting access to automated service programs. Such tests are based on the assumption that certain pattern recognition tasks are significantly harder for machines to perform than humans. For example it is easier for a human to recognize patterns in distorted speech or a distorted image than a machine. A telephony application can in one instance play a noisy prompt that asks the user to spell a word and recite a digit sequence. A Web application can in another instance ask its user to type the alphanumeric string embedded in a distorted image. Problems with these types of solutions include issues arising from the fact that similar sounding words can have different spellings many people are poor spellers and it can be a challenge to commit a sequence of digits to memory. Also over time machines are likely to develop the capacity to hack these types of simple authentication tests.

In addition to protecting clients from unauthorized access to automated services there is a need to heighten security to police interactions with personal computing devices and mobile devices. There is also a need to enhance the security associated with digital signature use when sending email. Currently these technologies commonly require only a password or PIN input to access information. As discussed above passwords and PINs are easily forgotten by a user and are easily discoverable by hackers. Those listed herein are only a few of many specific applications that will benefit from enhanced security.

Embodiments of the present invention pertain to a method for authenticating a user. The method includes accessing a collection of personal information related to the user. The method also includes performing an authentication operation that is based on the collection of personal information and incorporates at least one dynamic component. The authentication operation is configured to prompt the user to give an audible utterance. The audible utterance is compared to a stored voiceprint.

Embodiments of the present invention also pertain to a system that includes an information retriever configured to access a collection of personal information related to a user. The system also includes an authentication module configured to perform an authentication operation based on the collection of personal information. The authentication operation is configured to incorporate at least one dynamic component and configured to prompt the user to give an audible utterance. A voice verification module processes the audible utterance to determine whether it at least substantially corresponds to a voiceprint of a user.

The present invention is described in the context of a machine based system configured for communication with a human. Some machine based systems such as those that implement service programs can be accessed by way of a communication system or network such as the Internet a cell phone network or a telephone network. For example an automated service program such as an automated customer service call center can be accessed over a communication system by a client or customer. It should be noted however that machine based systems can also or alternatively include personal computing devices such as personal computers PCs or mobile computing devices such as personal data assistants PDAs and cell phones with which a user interacts to access or transmit secure information. Regardless of the type of machine based system the present invention is directed towards utilizing such a system to authenticate the identity of a user. Prior to describing the present invention in detail embodiments of illustrative computing environments within which the present invention can be applied will be described.

The invention is operational with numerous other general purpose or special purpose computing system environments or configurations. Examples of well known computing systems environments and or configurations that may be suitable for use with the invention include but are not limited to personal computers server computers hand held or laptop devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based systems set top boxes programmable consumer electronics network PCs minicomputers mainframe computers telephony systems distributed computing environments that include any of the above systems or devices and the like.

The invention may be described in the general context of computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by a computer. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. The invention is designed primarily but without limitation to be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules are located in both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices.

With reference to an exemplary system for implementing the invention includes a general purpose computing device in the form of a computer . Components of computer may include but are not limited to a processing unit a system memory and a system bus that couples various system components including the system memory to the processing unit. System bus may be any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus and a local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. By way of example and not limitation such architectures include Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus Enhanced ISA EISA bus Video Electronics Standards Association VESA local bus and Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus also known as Mezzanine bus.

Computer typically includes a variety of computer readable media. Computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by computer and includes both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and non removable media. By way of example and not limitation computer readable media may comprise computer storage media and communication media. Computer storage media includes both volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by computer . Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media includes wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media. Combinations of any of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

The system memory includes computer storage media in the form of volatile and or nonvolatile memory such as read only memory ROM and random access memory RAM . A basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within computer such as during start up is typically stored in ROM . RAM typically contains data and or program modules that are immediately accessible to and or presently being operated on by processing unit . By way of example and not limitation illustrates operating system application programs other program modules and program data .

The computer may also include other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media. By way of example only illustrates a hard disk drive that reads from or writes to non removable nonvolatile magnetic media a magnetic disk drive that reads from or writes to a removable nonvolatile magnetic disk and an optical disk drive that reads from or writes to a removable nonvolatile optical disk such as a CD ROM or other optical media. Other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media that can be used in the exemplary operating environment include but are not limited to magnetic tape cassettes flash memory cards digital versatile disks digital video tape solid state RAM solid state ROM and the like. The hard disk drive is typically connected to the system bus through a non removable memory interface such as interface and magnetic disk drive and optical disk drive are typically connected to the system bus by a removable memory interface such as interface .

The drives and their associated computer storage media discussed above and illustrated in provide storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computer . In for example hard disk drive is illustrated as storing operating system application programs other program modules and program data . Note that these components can either be the same as or different from operating system application programs other program modules and program data . Operating system application programs other program modules and program data are given different numbers here to illustrate that at a minimum they are different copies.

A user may enter commands and information into the computer through input devices such as a keyboard a microphone and a pointing device such as a mouse trackball or touch pad. Other input devices not shown may include a joystick game pad satellite dish scanner or the like. These and other input devices are often connected to the processing unit through a user input interface that is coupled to the system bus but may be connected by other interface and bus structures such as a parallel port game port or a universal serial bus USB . A monitor or other type of display device is also connected to the system bus via an interface such as a video interface . In addition to the monitor computers may also include other peripheral output devices such as speakers and printer which may be connected through an output peripheral interface .

The computer is operated in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers such as a remote computer . The remote computer may be a personal computer a hand held device a server a router a network PC a peer device or other common network node and typically includes many or all of the elements described above relative to the computer . The logical connections depicted in include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN but may also include other networks. Such networking environments are commonplace in offices enterprise wide computer networks Intranets and the Internet.

When used in a LAN networking environment the computer is connected to the LAN through a network interface or adapter . When used in a WAN networking environment the computer typically includes a modem or other means for establishing communications over the WAN such as the Internet. The modem which may be internal or external may be connected to the system bus via the user input interface or other appropriate mechanism. In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to the computer or portions thereof may be stored in the remote memory storage device. By way of example and not limitation illustrates remote application programs as residing on remote computer . It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are exemplary and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers may be used.

Memory is implemented as non volatile electronic memory such as random access memory RAM with a battery back up module not shown such that information stored in memory is not lost when the general power to mobile device is shut down. A portion of memory is preferably allocated as addressable memory for program execution while another portion of memory is preferably used for storage such as to simulate storage on a disk drive.

Memory includes an operating system application programs as well as an object store . During operation operating system is preferably executed by processor from memory . Operating system in one preferred embodiment is a WINDOWS CE brand operating system commercially available from Microsoft Corporation. Operating system is preferably designed for mobile devices and implements database features that can be utilized by applications through a set of exposed application programming interfaces and methods. The objects in object store are maintained by applications and operating system at least partially in response to calls to the exposed application programming interfaces and methods.

Communication interface represents numerous devices and technologies that allow mobile device to send and receive information. The devices include wired and wireless modems satellite receivers and broadcast tuners to name a few. Mobile device can also be directly connected to a computer to exchange data therewith. In such cases communication interface can be an infrared transceiver or a serial or parallel communication connection all of which are capable of transmitting streaming information.

Input output components include a variety of input devices such as a touch sensitive screen buttons rollers and a microphone as well as a variety of output devices including an audio generator a vibrating device and a display. The devices listed above are by way of example and need not all be present on mobile device . In addition other input output devices may be attached to or found with mobile device within the scope of the present invention.

In service program can be any type of service application accessible by way of a communication system that requires an authentication of user . By way of example but not by limitation service program can be an automated banking call center where user or customer can access account information and perform financial transactions. In this example service program is configured to authenticate a caller such that personal account information is only shared with an authenticated user that is qualified for such access. Other example service programs include automated credit card services automated cellular phone services and automated airline services.

In service program can be any type of service application accessible over a communication system. In this case user interacts with service program through a user device wherein the interaction includes an authentication process to restrict access to program to authorized users. By way of example but not by limitation service program can be an internet banking service where a customer or user can access account information and make business transactions. In this example service program authenticates or logs in user such that personal account information is only shared with an authenticated user that is qualified for such access. Other examples of network based service programs include automated credit card services automated cellular phone services and automated airline services.

In user device can be any type of computing device with which user can interact. For example user device can be a personal computing device or a mobile device as illustrated in . In this embodiment user device authenticates and verifies that user is whom they claim to be. Authentication can be used for a variety of operations. For example user device can authenticate user at log in. In another example user device can authenticate user to access a digital signature when transmitting an email or transmitting data over a network. These are only a few examples that are within the scope of the present invention.

In accordance with one aspect of the present invention the following is a description of an authentication process as illustrated in flowchart and as implemented in the various system embodiments illustrated in . At block a collection of personal information is accessed.

With reference to the embodiment a collection of personal information is stored in service program and is accessed by information retriever . In one embodiment personal information includes information related to user that is obtained during user enrollment for services provided by program . For example personal information can include a social security number a birth date or any other type of information supplied by user . In another aspect personal information includes information obtained during service oriented user interaction with program . For example personal information can include the user s prior transaction details prior traveling specifics in the case of an airline service program or other types of transactional information that might change over time. In contrast to static information such as a social security number or birth date the time varying data manifests itself as better choices for authentication purposes as addressed in the present invention. Nevertheless the present invention is applicable to either static or dynamic personal information.

With reference to the embodiment a collection of personal information is stored in user device and is accessed by information retriever by way of communication system . Although illustrates that personal information is stored in user device the present invention is not limited to such a configuration. Personal information can be stored in service program like the configuration shown in or personal information can be stored in both user device and service program .

Information retriever is configured to retrieve personal information that is stored on either user device and or service program . When personal information is stored in service program then personal information can include information related to user that is obtained during user enrollment for services provided by program as discussed with reference to . When personal information is stored in service program then personal information can also or alternatively include information obtained during interaction with service program as discussed with reference to .

When personal information is stored in user device then personal information can include information related to interaction with user device . For example personal information can include information extracted from a user s contacts that are stored in a personal contacts application. In another example information can be extracted from documents the user has created sent or received. Still other examples include specific operations or tasks completed by the user on user device . This type of information can include the identity of whom the user last received an email from or sent an email to or whom the user last received an instant message from or sent an instant message to. In addition this type of information can include the last MP3 file downloaded or the last MP3 file burned to a disc. These examples of personal information can be easily extracted by an operating system and made available to an information retriever.

In one embodiment data related to interaction with user device is harvested or mined by annotating such data with semantic types. For example some data is tagged as numeral type data other data is tagged as date type data still other data such as contact names is tagged as string type data. Information retriever illustratively retrieves data based on these semantic types.

With reference to the embodiment a collection of personal information is stored in user device and is accessed by information retriever . In one embodiment personal information includes information related to user that is obtained during user initiation of user device . For example personal information can include a social security number a birth date or other types of information that is supplied by user . In another embodiment personal information also includes information obtained based on interaction with user device . For example personal information can include information extracted from documents the user has created sent or received. Personal information can include information extracted from a user s contacts that are stored in a personal contacts application. Such information can include the identity of whom the user last received an email from or sent an email to or the identity of whom the user last received an instant message from or sent an instant message to. Such information can also include specific operations or tasks completed by the user on user device such as the last MP3 file downloaded or the last MP3 file burned to a storage disc. This type of personal information can be easily extracted by an operating system and made available to the information retriever.

In one embodiment the operating system harvests or mines data already stored on user device by annotating such data with semantic types. For example some data is tagged as numeral type data other data is tagged as date type data still other data such as contact names is tagged as string type data. In formation is then illustratively retrieved based on the annotations.

In blocks and are directed towards performing an authentication operation. To incorporate aspects of the Reverse Turing Test RTT i.e. synthesized challenges the authentication operation performed in blocks and incorporates at least one dynamic component. In one embodiment the authentication operation incorporates a dynamic component in the form of a dynamic question that asks about static information from the collection of personal information. The question is dynamic in that it requires a manipulation of the static information. For example what is the sum of the last three digits of your social security number . The question need not be the same from one authentication attempt to the next. For example what is the sum of the first three digits of your social security number .

In another embodiment the authentication operation incorporates a dynamic component in the form of a static question that asks about continuously changing or dynamic information from the collection of personal information. The question is static in that it does not require manipulation of information however the question need not be the same from one authentication attempt to the next. For example who is the last person that you emailed or what is the approximate balance of your checking account .

At block a question or authentication information is generated based on the collection of personal information. As discussed above in one embodiment the question incorporates a dynamic component. Although not specifically illustrated in the question or authentication information is transmitted to the user.

In the system embodiment illustrated in an authentication module includes a question generator . In one embodiment question generator is configured to generate a dynamic question based on static information stored in personal information and retrieved by information retriever . In one embodiment question generator is also or alternatively configured to generate a static question that asks about continuously changing or dynamic information from the collection of personal information . The question is presented through communication system to user .

In one embodiment question generator generates a dynamic question prompting an operation or function to be performed or manipulated on static information. The operation can be an arithmetic operation related to numerical information such as numerical data supplied by user during enrollment or an operation related to alphabetical information. Example questions include What is the sum of the last two digits of your social security number What is the date exactly one week prior to your birthday in the month date and year format or What are the last three letters of your mother s maiden name in reverse order . Question generator illustratively changes the nature of the questions unpredictably or at random from one authentication attempt to the next. For example question generator will randomly choose to take the sum difference or product of different types of numerals from one authentication attempt to the next.

As has been discussed personal information can also include information related to the specific interactions with service program . Therefore in one embodiment a static question asks about dynamic information. Examples include How many checking accounts do you have What day was your last transaction or When did you last travel with us .

In the embodiment illustrated in service program includes an authentication module . Authentication module includes a question generator . In one embodiment question generator is configured to generate a dynamic question based on static information stored in personal information and retrieved by information retriever . In another embodiment question generator is configured to also or alternatively generate a static question based on dynamic information stored in personal information . The question is presented through communication system to user device .

In accordance with another embodiment question generator is configured to generate a question based on either dynamic or static information that is retrieved from either user device or service program . The nature of generated questions can be similar to any of those discussed in the context of the embodiment. The scope of available questions is however broader in that it could include questions that pertain to interactions with the user device. For example questions can relate to dynamic operations or information native to user device . Example questions include When was the last time you contacted John Doe What did you do to a Stevie Wonder MP3 file last night or Who did you instant message today .

In the embodiment illustrated in user device includes an authorization module . Authorization module includes a question generator . In one embodiment question generator is configured to generate a dynamic question based on static information stored in personal information and retrieved by information retriever . In another embodiment question generator is also or alternatively configured to generate a static question based on dynamic information stored in personal information . The question is communicated to user through output . Example outputs include but are not limited to a display or an audible speaker.

Personal information can include information obtained during initiation of user device or obtained during interactions with user device . Examples of the nature of potential questions include any of the question types discussed in relation to the system embodiments of .

It should be noted that in the system embodiments schematically illustrated in the question generator and do not necessarily generate the same questions every time service program and authenticate a user. It is conceivable that question generator and randomly generate different questions each time service program and authenticate a user.

At block the answer to the question received from the user is evaluated for correctness. If the answer is incorrect then flowchart passes to block and the user is denied access. If however the answer is correct then flowchart passes to a set of blocks that are indicated with dashed lines. These blocks are steps that are optionally taken to further authenticate a user and will be described in detail below. It should be noted that these optional blocks require that the answer be received as an audible signal or utterance. Even if the answer is in the form of an audible signal these blocks are still optional steps to further authenticate a user. When further authentication under the optional steps is not elected then flowchart passes to block and access is granted.

In the embodiment illustrated in authentication module includes an answer evaluator . Answer evaluator receives an answer to the question from user by way of communication system . In the answer is received by service program in the form of an input signal. Example signals include but are not limited to an audible answer or a touch tone input available on a telephone receiver. Answer evaluator decodes the input signal and compares the answer to personal information to determine if the answer is correct. If the answer is received in the form of an audible answer then answer evaluator illustratively is functionally engaged to an appropriate speech recognition system.

In the embodiment illustrated in authorization module includes an answer evaluator . Answer evaluator receives an answer to the question from user device by way of communication system . In the answer received by answer evaluator is in the form of an input signal. Example signals include but are not limited to a keypad input a mouse selecting input or other type of selecting input that is configured to select a choice from a list of answers. In one embodiment the answer can be transmitted as an audible answer. Answer evaluator decodes the input signal and compares the answer to personal information to determine if the answer is correct. If the answer is received in the form of an audible answer then answer evaluator illustratively is functionally engaged to an appropriate speech recognition system.

In the embodiment illustrated in authorization module includes an answer evaluator . Answer evaluator receives an answer to the question from user through input . In the answer received by answer evaluator through input is in the form of an input signal. Example inputs include but are not limited to a keypad or a mouse. If input is a mouse then the answer can be selected from a choice of answers. In addition the answer can be transmitted as an audible answer. Answer evaluator decodes the input signal and compares the answer to personal information to determine if the answer is correct. If the answer is an audible answer then answer evaluator illustratively is functionally engaged to an appropriate speech recognition system.

The following is a description of the optional steps employed in and system embodiments schematically illustrated in for electing to further authenticate a user. As previously noted the answer evaluated in block must be an audible answer to optionally elect to further authenticate a user. It should also be noted that any known speech recognition system such as those known for transcribing voice into text using a pronunciation dictionary can be implemented in support of step when the answer is an audible answer.

If the audible answer is correct in block and the audible signal is to be further authenticated flowchart proceeds to block . At block the audible signal is analyzed and compared to the accessed voiceprint to verify that the user s voice signal at least substantially corresponds or matches the user s voiceprint. If the user s voiceprint does not correspond to the user s voice signal then access is denied at block . If however the user s voiceprint corresponds to the user s voice signal then access is granted at block . In some embodiments the challenge answer process may repeat more than once in accordance with certain prescribed security policies until the user access is granted or denied. The answer validation and voice print verification process can also be performed either sequentially or simultaneously.

In service program optionally includes a voice verification module . Voice verification module includes a speech verifier and a voiceprint database . After answer evaluator determines that the answer is a correct answer the answer is supplied to speech verifier . Speech verifier accesses a stored voiceprint from voiceprint database that corresponds to the user s voiceprint. Speech verifier determines if the audible signal of the answer at least substantially corresponds to the user s voiceprint.

In service program optionally includes a voice verification module . Voice verification module includes a speech verifier and a voiceprint database . After answer evaluator determines that the answer is a correct answer the answer is supplied to speech verifier . Speech verifier accesses a stored voiceprint from voiceprint database that corresponds to the user s voiceprint. Speech verifier determines if the audible signal of the answer at least substantially corresponds or matches the user s voiceprint.

In user device optionally includes a voice verification module . Voice verification module includes a speech verifier and a voiceprint database . After answer evaluator determines that the answer is a correct answer the answer is supplied to speech verifier . Speech verifier accesses a stored voiceprint from voiceprint database that corresponds to the user s voiceprint. Speech verifier determines if the audible signal of the answer at least substantially matches the user s voiceprint.

Although the present invention has been described with reference to particular embodiments workers skilled in the art will recognize that changes may be made in form and detail without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.

