---

title: Online account reset, rollback, and backup
abstract: Online account reset, rollback, and backup are described, including receiving from a user, by one or more computing devices, a request to alter an online account associated with the user; identifying, based on the request, at least a portion of data associated with the user and the online account, the at least the portion of data identified as being within a time window defined by the user; and in response to the request, modifying, using the one or more computing devices, the at least the portion of data within the time window.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09104630&OS=09104630&RS=09104630
owner: Google Inc.
number: 09104630
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121024
---
There are occasions when a user may want to roll back an activity associated with his or her online account. For example the user may have inadvertently posted information on the account. There are occasions when a user may want to start fresh with his or her online account such as when the user is moving to a new country starting a new job going through a relationship change or simply in need of a change. However it may be difficult for the user to roll back an activity or start fresh with an online account e.g. a social network account .

One option for the user is to manually delete everything the user wants to roll back or leave behind in order to start fresh. However this option is tedious and could take substantial time e.g. days or weeks for starting fresh .

Another option for the user to start fresh in the online world is by deleting the entire account and creating a new account. However deleting the entire account may not be desirable because the user may want to retain some account data e.g. contact information account preferences and privacy settings etc. .

The subject matter discussed herein relates generally to data processing and more particularly to online account reset rollback and backup.

Online account reset rollback and backup are described. The subject matter may provide various advantages to users. For example users can take steps to change or correct actions associated with their accounts. A user can rollback one or more actions that were taken inadvertently accidentally by unauthorized users on the user s behave or for any reason. Users are given greater control of their accounts. For example users can reset their accounts without losing the benefits of for example account settings and contact information.

The subject matter includes at least a computing device a computer product and a method for receiving from a user by one or more computing devices a request to alter an online account associated with the user identifying based on the request at least a portion of data associated with the user and the online account the at least the portion of data identified as being within a time window defined by the user and in response to the request modifying using the one or more computing devices the at least the portion of data within the time window.

In some implementations the time window includes a starting time and an ending time and at least the starting time is provided by the user with the request.

In some implementations the time window includes a starting time and an ending time and the ending time is defined by a time when the request is received.

In some implementations the modifying the at least the portion of data includes deleting the at least the portion of data.

In some implementations the modifying the at least the portion of data includes disassociating the at least the portion of data from the user.

In some implementations the request is a reset request for a full reset the at least the portion of data include content data and account data and the time window being from a time after initialization settings of the account have been set up to another time when the request is received.

In some implementations the request is a reset request for a content reset the at least the portion of data include content data and no account data.

In some implementations the request is a reset request for a category reset the method further comprising receiving a category selection from the user of the at least the portion of data.

In some implementations the request is a rollback request and the at least the portion of data is identified from a plurality of transactions associated with the account.

In some implementations additional features may be included such as receiving another request before the request to alter the account from the user to back up data associated with the account the backup data include the at least the portion of data and storing the backup data.

In some implementations additional features may be included such as receiving a restore request from the user and restoring at least a portion of the backup data wherein the at least a portion of the backup data are restored to associate with the account.

In some implementations the another request is a backup request the method further comprising providing a user interface that includes a control for the user to enter the backup request.

In some implementations the request is a reset request the method further comprising providing a user interface that includes a control for the user to enter the reset request to alter the account.

In some implementations the request is a rollback request the method further comprising providing a user interface that includes a control for the user to enter the rollback request to alter the account.

In addition to a method as described above the implementations may include a system or a computer readable medium but are not limited thereto.

The subject matter described herein is taught by way of example implementations. Various details have been omitted for the sake of clarity and to avoid obscuring the subject matter. The examples shown below are directed to structures and functions for implementing online account reset rollback and backup.

As used herein the term account or online account refers to a product service or application associated with a user. A user may have subscribe to and or use one or more accounts or online accounts e.g. a user may have an email account a social network account a photo sharing account a video sharing account an online storage account a mobile account a blog account etc. .

An account can be an internet or external account e.g. an end user subscribing to an openly publicly or semi publicly available service an intranet or internal account e.g. an employee subscribing to a service of a company or firm an extranet or controlled availability account e.g. an account available to vendors customers or other controlled subscribers or another type of account.

As used herein the term product or service or application refers to any information data communication infrastructure organization service assistance entertainment or the like provided by one or more providers via online communication to at least one user. Examples of products services or applications may include but are not limited to online searching e commerce services maps locational data dating services online forums online platforms bulletin boards social networks websites sites chat rooms email communication image or photo sharing sites video sharing sites audio sharing sites data sharing platforms data storage software tax preparation and filing gaming mobile applications news translation toolbar calendar instant messaging short message service voice phone video communication service and the like. Products services or applications may be provided on any platform or device ranging from a mobile device e.g. smartphone to a semi mobile device e.g. a laptop and to a non mobile device e.g. a kiosk television computer etc. . A product service or application may communicate to a provider or another product service or application using a wired or wireless connection.

As used herein the term content or content data with respect to account content refers to any data or information that can be put online e.g. communicated in an email or posted on a website etc. . Examples of content may include but are not limited to posts reposts communication messages e.g. e mails any data stored online or with a cloud service data in literal expression e.g. a writing document information comment suggestion recommendation webpage or the like and data in artistic expression in any medium e.g. any writing images video and a audio any part thereof any combination thereof e.g. provided in webpage and any representation thereof e.g. a link an audio representation and a visual representation of any literal and or artistic expression.

Content data associated with an account e.g. account content is content stored for maintaining the account and providing services associated with the account. Account content is a primary copy of data which may have backup copies associated with an account and the deletion of some of which would affect services associated with the account. Account content does not include log data logs and or log files which are additional or temporary copies of data that may be deleted and or altered by system administrators without affecting services associated with the account.

As used herein the term category or type with respect to account content refers to the grouping e.g. by a service provider and or a user of data and services. A category of data may come from a service e.g. email service a part of a service e.g. only emails to and from some users or email addresses or a combination of two of more services e.g. the combination of at least a part of one service such as email services with at least a part of another service such as calendar service or contracts management service . For example a service provider and or a user may define a media category of data to include different combinations of one or more of audio data video data photo data the metadata thereof and literal data. A category of data may be a portion of data associated with an account and or user.

As used herein the term account data refers to data associated with a user that exclude account content. Examples of account data may include but are not limited to the user s profile address book contact information email addresses information about users circles shared circles or s circles e.g. circles shared with another user settings preferences etc.

As used herein the term post noun or repost noun refers to content that has been posted reposted shared re shared published republished or otherwise put online by one user for access by the user and or by at least one other user. Content that has been posted reposted shared or re shared Content 1 can be further posted reposted shared or re shared with more users Content 2 . Content 2 may or may not be the same as Content 1. For example Content 2 may be a link to Content 1. Content 2 may include additional information e.g. annotations or comments not found in Content 1. Content 2 may include only part of Content 1.

As used herein the term website or site refers to a set of web pages for providing or supporting related services. A website can be hosted on at least one computing device e.g. a system server web server application server client or any label accessible via a network or connection wired and or wireless . A website can be accessed and or supported using at least one top level Uniform Resource Locator URL e.g. abc.gov 123.org zxc.com bestads.com virtualbank.com and the like . A website can be operated and or supported by one or more business entities. For example ZXC Corporation may operate the website zxc.com that includes web pages content and or services from zxc.bestads.com e.g. advertisement services provided by another firm and virtualbank.com zxc payment services e.g. financial services provided by a financial institution .

An online account e.g. a social network account accumulates data over time. The data associated with an account can be classified as account data and content data. Account data are data that enable the functionality of the account. Examples of account data may include contact information such as e mail addresses information about users circles settings preferences etc. Content data are data that are shared and or communicated between the account and other accounts. Examples of content data may include images videos audios posts reposts communication messages e.g. emails the sharing of account data e.g. sharing the contact information of a user with another user etc.

Mechanisms or user interfaces may be provided for users to back up data associated with their accounts. For example a user may back up all account data and content data back up just the account data or just the content data or back up one or more categories of the account data or content data etc. After backing up or if the user does not desire to back up any data the user may reset his or her account or roll back one or more transactions. Users may back up and or reset one or more accounts at a time.

Mechanisms or user interfaces may be provided for users to roll back e.g. undo one or more transactions. A transaction is an activity that publishes releases or otherwise causes information to become accessible by another user. The posting of information on a social network is an example of a transaction. Other examples include but are not limited to providing comments giving feedback e.g. 1 or like etc. sharing a photo audio video document etc. communicating a message e.g. text message email blog etc. putting information on a public semi public or private forum or platform e.g. adding a calendar entry on a social network or to a company calendar that is accessible by at least one user other than the user adding the entry . Rolling back transactions associated with an account alters the account e.g. alters or modifies the data associated with the account .

Mechanisms or user interfaces may be provided for users to reset their accounts. Resetting an account alters the account e.g. alters or modifies the data associated with the account . For example a user may request a full reset to an account where account data and content data of that account are deleted e.g. friend connections are removed and the account is returned to an initial state where only the most basic settings e.g. the user s name email address and other user profile information remain. In some example implementations the account is returned to a state as if the account has just been created e.g. values to the basic settings have not been set .

In some examples other reset options may be provided. For example a user may request a content reset of an account which leads to deleting only content data e.g. images vides audios comments applications feedback etc. of the account. The account data remain intact e.g. email addresses are not deleted and friend connections are not severed etc. . Another reset option may be resetting a category of data or a few categories of data. For example a user may request resetting the 1 content data the audios the circles etc. or any combination thereof.

In some examples mechanisms or user interfaces may be provided for users to request restoring backed up data associated with their accounts. For example a user may request a full restore if a full backup and a full reset were performed. If the user requested a partial backup and a partial reset e.g. of only content data account data or one or more categories of data the user may request a partial restore of his or her account. A restore to an account restores the backed up data to the account.

 All Content may be used to back up the account content of a user s account. Select Content may be used to back up selected account content of the user s account. All Acc Data may be used to back up the account data of a user s account. In some implementations there may be one option not shown for the user to request backup of the user s account content and account data e.g. the combination of All Content and All Acc Data . Select Acc Data may be used to back up selected account data of the user s account.

Account content includes for example images videos and audios posts and reposts comments and 1 other content e.g. email messages communication messages in one or more forms other than email calendar entries tasks notes maps videos search results location data blogs documents etc. Account content associated with a user includes for example content generated retrieved stored or otherwise accessed by the user. Account content includes content provided shared or otherwise communicated to the user.

Account content may be categorized in any manner. For example content relating to a service e.g. posts and reposts and comments and 1 relating to a social network may be categorized as one category of content e.g. social network content not shown that includes posts reposts comments 1 two categories of content e.g. as shown posts and reposts and comments and 1 or more categories of content e.g. four categories posts reports comments 1 . The categories of content and services are described for illustration purposes. Services and content associated with services e.g. social networks include other services and content not shown or described.

Account data associated with a user include for example information about the user and other users circles a circle is a grouping of one or more users s circles e.g. circles used access or shared by two or more users settings e.g. privacy settings customization settings of a service etc. and other data e.g. emails addresses user profiles etc. .

Timeline is shown for example with activities associated with a user s account at a few points in time T T . Each point T T on the timeline represents a snapshot of the user s account at that point. The user has registered created or otherwise opened the account at time Twith a service provider e.g. the account has been assigned to the user by the service provider . Account credentials e.g. identifier and or password may be associated with the account.

At time T the user may have set up or customized the account by for example configuring some basic settings. The basic settings may be on the client side server side or on both sides. Using an email service for example basic settings may include settings such as language number of conversations shown in the inbox each time the user logs in user interface configuration account holder s information e.g. name address phone number photo of the holder age etc. email signatures etc. If the user uses Internet Message Access Protocol IMAP with the email service the user may configure basic settings such as account description full name email address user name password incoming server outgoing server whether to communicate openly or encrypted etc.

At time T the user may have added contact information of another user Alice e.g. to the user s social network service created a Family circle that includes Alice as a user posted a message to Alice Alice s post that includes an image of a cat called Cute Cat. 

The posting of the message to Alice and the storing of the Cute Cat image may be considered a transaction that can be rolled back. Adding the Alice user may be considered a transaction or not a transaction for rollback purposes depending on implementations. For example if other users may see the Users information of this account e.g. see that Alice has been added or deleted changes to Users information may be considered as transactions. Changes to Circle information may also be considered transactions e.g. adding the Family circle .

At time T the user may have changed some basic settings uploaded a log e.g. activity log of an application to a cloud storage service posted content to the Family circle that includes a kitten video and uploaded a kitten photo to a photo sharing service. The kitten video or a link to the video may be embedded in the post. The post to the Family circle may include a link to the kitten photo.

The uploading of the log may be considered a transaction if another user is aware of the log itself or the uploading activity. The posting to the Family circle and the kitten video e.g. tied to the posting may be considered one transaction. The uploading of the kitten photo may be considered a separate transaction e.g. referred to in the posting but not tied to the posting .

At time T the user may have added modified an account profile added an ABC Club s circle and provided a 1 feedback to a post to the ABC Club s circle.

The adding of the ABC Club s circle may be considered a transaction due to its sharable nature versus a circle which is not shared with another user . The posting of the 1 feedback may be considered a transaction.

At time T the user may have received a post from a member of the Family circle. A kitten audio may have been added in association with the user e.g. received the audio in the post or uploaded the audio by the user .

The received post and the kitten audio may not be considered a transaction since the user is a receiver and not a sender. The service provider of account may provide mechanisms not shown for the receiving user to delete the post and or the kitten audio. In similar implementations the setting of basic settings T the changes to the basic settings T and the addition or modification of the account profile T may not be considered transactions.

In some implementations a full reset may reset the account content and account data back to a certain time e.g. at T . In those implementations the changes made to the basic settings at time Tmay be modified deleted or disassociated from the user.

In some implementations the time window e.g. T T may be defined by the user requesting the reset. For example the user may specify resetting the account content and account data from Tto T e.g. via a mechanism or user interface no shown provided to the user to ender the starting time and or ending time of the time window .

In some implementations basic settings which are within the time window may be excluded from the selection of and the user may be given an option to include the basic settings. In other implementations basic settings which are within the selected time window may be included in the selection of and the user may be given an option to exclude the basic settings.

In some implementations the user may specified or defined the starting time e.g. T and let the end time be automatically defaulted to for example the time at which the request is made received.

In some implementations a full reset may reset the account content and account data back to a time when the account was created e.g. at T . As such the basic settings configured at time Tmay be deleted modified or disassociated from the user.

Before the full reset described above or any reset or rollback described below the user may perform one or more backup operations e.g. using the submenu of Back Up My Account of UI B to back up the account content and or account data . In some implementations content backup and or data backup may be restored not shown .

Before the full reset described above or any reset or rollback described below the user may specified or defined a time window e.g. providing a start time and or an end time of the time window via a mechanism or user interface no shown . The start time and or the end time of a time window may be implemented with a default value e.g. the end time being the time the user makes a request to reset or roll back data associated with the user s account .

The example shows that resetting the Images category resets all image data added to the account e.g. at times T T . The stricken through text in outline area indicates that the images Cute Cat and Kitten photo have been reset e.g. deleted or disassociated with the user . The other account content and all account data added to the account e.g. at times T T are untouched.

In some implementations resetting content in one category e.g. Images category may lead to resetting at least some content in another category. For example since Alice posts the Cute Cat in a post at time T resetting or deleting the Cute Cat image would leave Alice s post being an empty post. Intelligence or logic may be added in these implementations to delete Alice s empty post at time T. As a result resetting the Images category leads to resetting or deleting Alice s empty post at time T as shown in outline area e.g. the combined reset area is and .

The user of the account may perform rollback operations using for example UI B . The user may use the Last Transaction option to roll back the last transaction which may be transaction or depending on the temporal order e.g. timestamps of these transactions. By selecting the Last Transaction option the selection by the user may define the time window being from the time before the last transaction is stored to the time just after the last transaction is stored. The user may use the Select Transaction option to select one or more of the transactions to roll back the selected transactions. For example a submenu may be provided not shown for the user to select one or more transactions or select one or more transactions within time window to roll back. The selected transactions may include adjacent transactions e.g. transactions that occurred sequentially in time or non adjacent transactions non contiguous time window .

Transactions may be kept as a list table or in another data structure with transaction identifiers. For example when the user posts the Cute Cat in Alice s post in transaction a transaction identifier may be added for transaction and the transaction identifier may be associated with Cute Cat and Alice s post. When transaction is selected e.g. in a rollback operation the transaction identifier may be used to locate the Cute Cat image and Alice s post for rolling back e.g. for deletion .

A transaction may involve one service provider or two or more service providers. An example of a transaction that involves one service provider may be a transaction e.g. a post comment feedback etc. on a social network. For example a user initiator posting content on the social network to his or her circle of users on the social network recipients involves users e.g. the initiator and recipients on the social network controlled and or managed by the service provider of the social network.

When a user rolls back a transaction in a one service provider situation e.g. rolling back a transaction on a social network or an email not shown sent from a user on mail service xyz.com to another user on the same mail service xyz.com the service provider has control of the initiator side and the recipient side.

In a one service provider rollback the service provider may roll back a transaction by restoring the system s to the state before the transaction was published or taken. The service provider may remove all traces of the transaction within the confines of the system s controlled by the service provider. For example a user requests a rollback e.g. removal of a photo post e.g. transaction on a social network. The social network removes or deletes Alice s post and Cute Cat from the user s account and removes Alice s post and Cute Cat from the recipient s account i.e. Alice s account not shown . The results may be equivalent to erasing the history of the transaction ever happening on both the initiator s side the user s side and the recipient s side Alice s side .

An example of a transaction that involves two or more service providers may be an email. For example a user e.g. having email address user mail service xyz.com may use email services provided by one provider e.g. mail service xyz.com to send an email to another user e.g. having email address another user A1 mail.net who uses email services provided by another provider e.g. A1 mail.net . The email may be initiated by the user e.g. using an email application or initiated by a service provider on behalf of the user e.g. a social network sends notification of a post by a user on the social network to the email addresses of the users who receive the post .

When a user rolls back a transaction that involves more than one service provider e.g. rolling back an email sent from mail service xyz.com to A1 mail.net the service provider mail service xyz.com from which the user requests a rollback may not have control of the recipient s service provider A1 mail.net. In these situations the mail service xyz.com may roll back the requested transaction on the system s controlled by mail service xyz.com e.g. restores the system s into the state before the transaction was published or taken and remove all traces of the transaction within the confines of the system s controlled by mail service xyz.com .

To roll back the transaction on the recipient s side e.g. rolling back the email received by A1 mail.net the service provider mail service xyz.com may send a rollback request or notification to A1 mail.net that includes for example information about the transaction e.g. information that identifies in an email from user mail service xyz.com to another user A1 mail.net that the user has requested a rollback .

If more than one recipient service providers are involved e.g. an email sent from one user to multiple recipients who use email services from multiple service providers the service provider mail service xyz.com may send a rollback request or notification to each of the recipient service providers.

In some examples a recipient service provider e.g. A1 mail.net may honor the rollback request and perform the rollback on the system s controlled by A1 mail.net e.g. restore the system s into the state before the email was received and remove all traces of the email stored within the confines of the system s controlled by A1 mail.net .

In the example implementations herein data deletion may include deleting the data e.g. removing from a storage or memory and or deleting the association of the data with a user e.g. disassociating with an account . Data may be disassociated with a user in any way that removes user identifiable information from the data. For example user identifiable information such as an identifier name telephone number address etc. may be removed or anonymized e.g. replaced with random information . The credential associated with the online account are not changed by the disassociating.

Environment includes devices and each is communicatively connected to at least one other device via for example network e.g. by wired and or wireless connections . Some devices may be communicatively connected to one or more storage devices and .

An example of one or more devices may be computing device described below in . Devices may include but are not limited to a computer e.g. a laptop computing device a mobile device e.g. smartphone or tablet a television with one or more processors embedded therein and or coupled thereto a device associated with a vehicle a server computer computing devices storage devices and .

In some implementations devices may be considered user devices e.g. devices used by users to access services and or issue requests e.g. requests to back up and or reset requests . Devices may be devices associated with service providers e.g. used by service providers to provide services and or store account content and or account data .

For example a user may issue a reset roll back or backup request from user device or . The request is received by device e.g. a server of a service provider . For example the request may be for resetting at least one category of data associated with the account which is associated with the user. The data associated with the account may be stored in device and or . In response to the request device which includes logic to manage the user s account and data deletes the requested at least one category of data which may have been accumulated since a time e.g. a prescribed time of the account creation or when the user set up basic settings in the account. The user may continue to use his or her account after the account reset using the same credentials associated with the account e.g. the reset did not reset the user s identifier or password associated with the account .

After receiving the request to alter the account one or more computing devices of the service provider may be involved in identifying data to be disassociated with the account at block . At the time of the request the identified data are associated with the account and are not stored on the user device.

When the request to alter the account is a reset request e.g. resetting at least one category of data associated with the account one or more categories of data accumulated since a prescribed time e.g. since account creation or basic settings setup are identifies depending on whether the request is a full reset content reset or category reset.

When the request to alter the account is a rollback request e.g. rolling back one or more transactions associated with the account at least one transaction associated with the account is identified.

At block in response to the request one or more computing devices of the service provider may disassociate the identified data with the account or delete the identified data from the account. There is no downtime to the account e.g. the account is available for use by the user using the same account credentials .

In some examples process may be implemented with different fewer or more blocks. Process may be implemented as computer executable instructions which can be stored on a medium loaded onto one or more processors of one or more computing devices and executed as a computer implemented method.

Computing device can be communicatively coupled to input user interface and output device interface . Either one or both of input user interface and output device interface can be a wired or wireless interface and can be detachable. Input user interface may include any device component sensor or interface physical or virtual that can be used to provide input e.g. buttons touch screen interface keyboard a pointing cursor control microphone camera braille motion sensor optical reader and or the like . Output device interface may include a display television monitor printer speaker braille or the like. In some example implementations input user interface and output device interface can be embedded with or physically coupled to the computing device . In example implementations other computing devices may function as or provide the functions of input user interface and output device interface for a computing device .

Examples of computing device may include but are not limited to highly mobile devices e.g. smartphones devices in vehicles and other machines devices carried by humans and animals and the like mobile devices e.g. tablets notebooks laptops personal computers portable televisions radios and the like and devices not designed for mobility e.g. desktop computers other computers information kiosks televisions with one or more processors embedded therein and or coupled thereto radios and the like .

Computing device can be communicatively coupled e.g. via I O interface to external storage and network for communicating with any number of networked components devices and systems including one or more computing devices of the same or different configuration. Computing device or any connected computing device can be functioning as providing services of or referred to as a server client thin server general machine special purpose machine or another label.

I O interface can include but is not limited to wired and or wireless interfaces using any communication or I O protocols or standards e.g. Ethernet 802.11x Universal System Bus WiMax modem a cellular network protocol and the like for communicating information to and or from at least all the connected components devices and network in computing environment . Network can be any network or combination of networks e.g. the Internet local area network wide area network a telephonic network a cellular network satellite network and the like .

Computing device can use and or communicate using computer usable or computer readable media including transitory media and non transitory media. Transitory media include transmission media e.g. metal cables fiber optics signals carrier waves and the like. Non transitory media include magnetic media e.g. disks and tapes optical media e.g. CD ROM digital video disks Blu ray disks solid state media e.g. RAM ROM flash memory solid state storage and other non volatile storage or memory.

Computing device can be used to implement techniques methods applications processes or computer executable instructions in some example computing environments. Computer executable instructions can be retrieved from transitory media and stored on and retrieved from non transitory media. The executable instructions can originate from one or more of any programming scripting and machine languages e.g. C C C Java Visual Basic Python Perl JavaScript and others .

Processor s can execute under any operating system OS not shown in a native or virtual environment. One or more applications can be deployed that include logic unit application programming interface API unit input unit output unit UI manager backup reset rollback manager content data manager and inter unit communication mechanism for the different units to communicate with each other with the OS and with other applications not shown . For example feedback management unit UI manager backup reset rollback manager and content data manager may implement one or more processes shown in . The described units and elements can be varied in design function configuration or implementation and are not limited to the descriptions provided.

In some example implementations when information or an execution instruction is received by API unit it may be communicated to one or more other units e.g. logic unit input unit output unit UI manager backup reset rollback manager and content data manager . For example UI manager may provide the UI A on a user device for a user to enter a request a reset to an account which is received by input unit and forwarded to backup reset rollback manager via API unit . Backup reset rollback manager communicates with content data manager to reset the user s account according to the reset request.

In some example implementations logic unit may be configured to control the information flow among the units and direct the services provided by API unit input unit output unit UI manager backup reset rollback manager and content data manager . For example the flow of one or more processes or implementations may be controlled by logic unit alone or in conjunction with API unit .

In situations in which the systems discussed here collect personal information about users or may make use of personal information the users may be provided with an opportunity to control whether programs or features collect user information e.g. information about a user s social network social actions or activities profession a user s preferences or a user s current location or to control whether and or how to receive content from the content server that may be more relevant to the user. In addition certain data may be treated in one or more ways before it is stored or used so that personally identifiable information is removed. For example a user s identity may be treated so that no personally identifiable information can be determined for the user or a user s geographic location may be generalized where location information is obtained such as to a city ZIP code or state level so that a particular location of a user cannot be determined. Thus the user may have control over how information is collected about the user and used by a content server.

Although a few example implementations have been shown and described these example implementations are provided to convey the subject matter described herein to people who are familiar with this field. It should be understood that the subject matter described herein may be implemented in various forms without being limited to the described example implementations. The subject matter described herein can be practiced without those specifically defined or described matters or with other or different elements or matters not described. It will be appreciated by those familiar with this field that changes may be made in these example implementations without departing from the subject matter described herein as defined in the appended claims and their equivalents.

