---

title: Ontology based customer support techniques
abstract: Methods and systems for providing customer support in response to support communication are disclosed. Such communications may be structured or unstructured, and unstructured communications may be subject to further processing. A determination is made at least as to one or more relevant support classes, as well as to whether further support action(s) should be initiated. When determined that at least a further support action should be initiated, aspects of the support action may be determined and initiated.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09177319&OS=09177319&RS=09177319
owner: Amazon Technologies, Inc.
number: 09177319
owner_city: Reno
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120321
---
Customer relationship management CRM systems are widely used by business entities to manage disparate aspects of customer interaction. Some of these aspects involve customer communication regarding one or more services provided by a given business entity. However such communication often occurs in unstructured and or indirect ways such as the dissemination of feedback via social media where the customer may not directly be addressing the service providing business entity but rather to the public at large. For example a customer may air grievances about limited and or crippled functionality relating to the service via a public Internet forum. Currently many conventional techniques inadequately address such unstructured and or indirect customer communications and as a result may provide a less than optimal level of support to customers that communicate indirectly.

In the following description various embodiments will be described. For purposes of explanation specific configurations and details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments. However it will also be apparent to one skilled in the art that the embodiments may be practiced without the specific details. Furthermore well known features may be omitted or simplified in order not to obscure the embodiment being described.

Systems and methods in accordance with various embodiments of the present disclosure may overcome one or more of the aforementioned and other deficiencies experienced in conventional approaches to providing support to customers in an electronic environment. In particular various embodiments provide support services workflows and techniques for and or on behalf of customers of computing services provided by a computing resource provider. For example a customer may directly contact and or indirectly contact through a support channel or other appropriate interface a service provider. In some embodiments such contacts are analyzed to determine whether support actions are warranted and if so what specific service category applies and which specific support actions should be executed. In some embodiments the customer may be a user or consumer of a computing or other service provided by the computing resource provider hereinafter referred to as a service provider. A service provider may provide any number or type of services including but not limited to computing services storage services or support services and may expose them to any entity and in any appropriate manner. Examples include but are not limited to exposure to customers virtual instances of a computing service provided by the service provider or other services via application programming interfaces API user interfaces UI or other appropriate interfaces available to such entities locally or over any network including the Internet.

In some embodiments the customer expresses a desire for support through an interface at least curated by or directed to the service owner or provider. Such interfaces generate structured data that is in some embodiments directly consumable by at least some aspects of the techniques or entities described herein. The structured data may be data that is formatted into predefined fields of an interface provided by a service owner service provider or support entity. In some embodiments a customer may make a statement about the functionality or operability of a service provided by the service provider thereby generating unstructured data. In some embodiments unstructured data comprises statements that may be expressed on social media platforms freeform messaging forums blogging sites or other entities on public communication networks such as the Internet and in some embodiments may not necessarily directed at the service provider. Such unstructured data may in some embodiments trigger or be detected by a listener that is configured to detect specific triggers such as handles of posting customers metadata tags or hashtags. Hashtags may include words and or phrases preceded by a hash character and in some embodiments are used to identify a post message or statement with which the hashtag is attached or otherwise associated. In some embodiments the unstructured data associated with the trigger is analyzed or processed by one or more data cleansing techniques including natural language processing techniques to determine the equivalent structured content of the data. Such techniques may in some embodiments by performed by an ingestion entity of the service provider and such an ingestion entity may also ingest the structured data from the sources curated by the service provider. The ingestion entity may be a computer system entity configured to at least concatenate data from one or more sources and presents the concatenated data to downstream entities.

In some embodiments the ingested and or processed data is passed to an entity or group of entities to determine which supported services and or service aspects apply to the data. Such services and or service aspects are in some embodiments organized as an ontological hierarchy or tree. In some embodiments the entity or entities receiving the ingested and or processed data traverse such an ontological tree to determine which node or nodes corresponding with services and or service aspects apply to the data. Upon determining the associated services in some embodiments a decision engine or similar entity makes a determination of whether support action is to be taken and if so what support steps should be executed. Such a determination may be informed by characteristics of a customer the content of the data the service or services determined to apply to the data or other factors appropriate to the given determination. An engine as used herein may include one or more entities that are configured to perform one or more actions such as computational actions. For example a decision engine may comprise one or more entities that are capable of determining at least whether a support action is to be taken and if so which actions or steps should be performed. When determined that one or more support actions are to be taken in some embodiments a workflow engine or entity at least coordinates the actions such that the customer associated with the data receives the determined support. Such support action s may be directly performed by the workflow engine coordinated by the workflow engine to be executed amongst a plurality of associated entities or deferred to an entity associated with the services or service aspects determined to apply to the data. Workflows may include a sequence of one or more actions and or steps that are to be performed in a specific order. Actions and steps may themselves comprise more granular workflows and thus the execution of a given step in an overall workflow may initiate or kick off a separate workflow. In some embodiments the customer and actions taken by and on behalf of the customer are tracked by a customer master or aspect of a CRM system and in some embodiments any workflows or determinations underway may be communicated to or informed by the associated customer.

Various other applications functions and advantages are presented below with respect to the various embodiments. It should be understood that the description and figures provide a number of examples but the alternatives and variations possible within the scope of the various embodiments are not fully described. Alternatives and variations however would be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art in light of the teachings and suggestions contained herein.

In some embodiments the support communications are submitted via one or more data connections to an ingestion engine . The data connection may be of any suitable kind including but not limited to network connections local data connections or Internet connections. In some embodiments submissions of structured communications may be passed directly to the ingestion engine and in some embodiments to entities beyond the ingestion engine without processing or modification as in some embodiments such structured communications are formatted in a standardized way. As will be contemplated unstructured communications may be freeform and may not necessarily conform to the same predefined format or manner as that of the structured communications. In such embodiments additional processing to extract data from the unstructured communications may be performed. Such additional processing may in some embodiments involve any number of data cleansing and or language processing techniques including natural language processing techniques which may in turn include linguistic stemming determination of word weights determination of the proximity of certain words and other applicable techniques. In some embodiments the data extracted by the processing may contain and or be formatted to resemble structured communications from curated sources i.e. that the extracted data conforms to the same ontology as that of the structured communications. In some embodiments such additional processing may be performed by the ingestion engine itself or in some embodiments by another entity prior to ingestion by the ingestion engine. In some embodiments the presence of unstructured communications may be detected by an associated trigger such as may be implemented by one or more listening entities. For example a listening entity may track activity on a message forum or social media platform and a trigger may be the detection of the use of specific metadata tags e.g. hashtags in a post to such a forum or platform. As another example the trigger may be the detection of a handle known or deduced to be associated with an existing or prospective customer. Upon such a trigger in some embodiments the post containing a triggering metadata tag is submitted to the ingestion engine and as previously described may be processed to extract data prior to being submitted.

In some embodiments the ingestion engine submits the ontology conforming data via one or more data connections to one or more decision tree entities . The data connections may be of any suitable type or implementation similarly to the data connections previously alluded to. In some embodiments the decision tree entities collectively determine and drive support actions based at least in part on the service and or service aspects that apply to the incoming data which as previously described are correlated to structured and unstructured customer communications . In some embodiments as previously alluded to the service and or service aspects are organized as interrelated support classes or objects in an ontology tree. In some embodiments the decision tree entities may include a customer communication engine a decision engine a customer master and or a workflow engine . Such entities are in some embodiments interoperable and or interconnected and may individually collectively or in any part communicate with the customer via a data connection .

In the example given the customer master stores information about various customers consuming using and or otherwise connected to services provided by the service provider and or supported by the support entity . The customer master may in some embodiments provide to the decision engine information regarding the status or characteristics of the customer associated with the incoming ontology conforming data. For example the associated customer may have a premium or high priority support classification and thus be entitled to a different and possibly higher level of service. As another example the associated customer may have had similar problems with similar services or service aspects in the past and thus be entitled to a higher level of support.

In some embodiments based on the incoming data the derived customer information and other information the decision engine determines the specific support classes that apply to the data and determines whether support actions should be driven. Support classes may include references to supported services service aspects or other functional support divisions as appropriate for the given implementation. In some embodiments the decision engine determines the applicable support classes by applying a decision tree in some cases an ontology tree as previously described and deriving the specific issue or issues for which the customer contact was initially created by traversing the decision tree. The decision engine may additionally retrieve over data connection data such as operational information or health metrics from the services and or service aspects . Based on at least part of the information derived and or received the decision engine determines whether one or more support actions should be taken. For example the decision engine may determine that based on its assessment that the incoming data describes a customer problem in a given service aspect that the service aspect has reported an issue and that the customer is entitled to support one or more support actions should at least be initiated. Upon determining that the support action s should be initiated the decision engine may also determine the specific sequence and content of support steps to be carried out. Such support steps and or actions may be performed either automatically with manual input or in any combination by any appropriate entity including the decision engine itself. In a preferred embodiment the coordination and or scheduling of the determined action s and or step s is performed by a separate workflow engine . In some embodiments some or all of the actions are deferred to the associated support classes services and or service aspects themselves and instructions for such actions and or steps are submitted to the services via data connection . In some embodiments the determinations of the decision engine are improved over time by using a feedback loop e.g. as may be applied in the context of a machine learning technique wherein the feedback is received from any entity capable of informing the decision engine of its past and present performance. For example if the decision engine receives an abnormal amount of feedback e.g. from customers that decisions to not initiate support actions were incorrect the decision engine may adjust its operation to more frequently initiate action based on the received feedback. It is contemplated that any aspect of the decision tree entities may communicate with the customer for any appropriate reason including providing visibility into the determinations and or actions taken by the various components therein. It is also contemplated that any such customer communication action s taken or determinations made may be associated with the customer as persisted by the customer master so as to be available for further or future determinations of the decision tree entities.

Using the example given a customer may for example create an unstructured message forum post that using the techniques described in connection with is interpreted as a customer issue with an instance of service A running operating system A but no further level of detail can initially be determined. In an embodiment the decision engine of may determine that based on a traversal of known issues related to operating system OS A and service A insufficient information exists to carry out any substantive support steps and thus initiate a communication to the associated customer for more information e.g. that which identifies the specific instance at issue or further empirical information such as the OS variant used the version used and or the subsystem affected. Upon receiving the requested information the decision engine may assess that for example non functional subsystem C of the customer s instance is as a result of a configuration problem that can be fixed by simply restarting the instance and thus performs the restart. In alternative embodiments incomplete ingested information as may be the case particularly when receiving and processing unstructured communications may be complete enough to accurately infer further details about the specific service classes or objects involved. For example the support communication may only indicate that an instance running variant version C is having a problem with subsystem A. A decision engine or other entity or entities implementing the decision tree may perform a traversal of the tree to determine the missing information. In the example given the decision engine may determine that the only possible combination of variant version C and subsystem A is an instance of service A running OS variant A of operating system A and thus perform further determinations using a more complete data set than was initially provided without the need for further input.

In some embodiments ingested data may be associable with service classes and or objects in multiple and or disparate subtrees. For example the data may map to an issue with aspects of services A C and D. To determine the most appropriate support class or object s a decision tree implementing entity may take into account other characteristics of the ingested data such as the weight of specific keywords within the data as well as information regarding the proximity of certain words and or keywords with one another. For example given the assumption that keywords lost instance and volume carry the most weight an unstructured communication that reads we lost access to this instance again I was unable to complete the data migration to a volume may be interpreted differently than one that reads my instance runs just fine but I keep on getting this message saying that my volume was lost. Since in the first example the keywords lost and instance are considerably closer in proximity than lost and volume an implementing entity may deduce that the described issue is more closely related to a problem with e.g. an instance of a service rather than a problem with a volume. Conversely in the second example the keywords lost and volume are closer together than lost and instance and the implementing entity may determine that a service class and or object pertaining to lost volumes is the best appropriate match. The examples given are not meant to be limiting in any way but merely exemplary of the flexibility of such a decision tree as well as that of the implementation thereof.

In the illustrated example one or more entities for example the listeners interfaces presences and or ingestion entities described in connection with at least receive structured data and or unstructured data . As previously described in connection with at least the structured data may be constructed or formatted in a predetermined manner for example to facilitate later processing e.g. for processing by a decision engine or similar entity . Unstructured data may be processed by any number of data cleansing techniques including natural language processing techniques. As described in connection with at least such as linguistic stemming determination of word weights determination of the proximity of certain words and other applicable techniques. The output of such processing may as previously described be analogous in form to that of structured data.

Both the structured data and the processed unstructured data are processed to determine an applicable node or node s within a decision tree . As described in connection with at least such a decision tree may be an ontology tree with a structure that is at least analogous to the ontological structure of one or more supported services and or service aspects themselves. Also as previously described when more than one subtree or node in the tree applies to the data the most appropriate node or nodes may be selected by using data about the relationship between various elements of the data such as proximity of keywords or keyword weights. The determination at step may be performed by any appropriate entity such as the decision engine of .

Upon determination of the services and or service aspects applicable and or associated with the data a decision is made as to whether to initiate one or more support actions . Such a determination may be made by any appropriate entity such as the decision engine of and may be informed by other data such as information about the customer via a customer master or from information derived from feedback also as described in connection with . If determined at step that no action is possible or necessary an entity such as the customer communication engine of may communicate to the customer that no support action will be initiated. Alternatively the system may simply remain silent. Such a decision may in some embodiments be noted in a customer s history e.g. as persisted by the customer master described in connection with .

However if a support action is determined to be necessary at step a further determination of the support steps necessary is made . The determination of step may be performed by any appropriate entity such as the decision engine described in connection with and may comprise any combination of manual or automatic steps and or actions. It is contemplated that a support action may include a determination that further customer information is necessary before substantial support steps may be taken in which case an entity such as a customer communication engine may solicit such further information directly from the customer. Manual actions initiated at step may be initiated and or executed in any appropriate fashion with some embodiments incorporating certain automatic actions that subsequently initiated manual actions. Examples include the automatic creation of a trouble ticket within an existing trouble ticketing system a direct notification to a technician or support specialist or the contacting of a customer for additional information as previously described. Automatic actions initiated at step may as described in connection with be executed by any appropriate entity including but not limited to the decision engine a workflow engine or an entity connected with the relevant service or service aspect.

Initiated and or completed actions including their respective outcomes and or operational details in some embodiments may be recorded in a customer history that is for example persisted by a customer master as described in connection with . It will be appreciated that such information may influence later determinations by e.g. the decision engine in embodiments where the determining entity queries the customer master for customer information and uses such customer information to assist in the determination. Additional feedback for the determining entity e.g. the decision engine may be derived by an ex post determination as to whether the support action s taken or the decision whether to take support action s at all was appropriate . As previously described in connection with the appropriateness of such decisions may be determined from the reference of any appropriate entity or entities such as that of customer s the supported services and or service aspects or other entities implementing and or implemented by the systems and or processes described herein. Such information may be reported to and accumulated by an entity responsible for any determining step e.g. steps and or although feedback into the determination of whether to support action at step is shown merely for clarity of example.

An entity receives unstructured data by any appropriate mechanism such as via a listener as described in connection with at least . As previously described such unstructured data may in some embodiments be or derive from customer communications on social media platforms or public message forums and may not necessarily be directed toward an entity implementing the process . As described in connection with in embodiments where a listener is used the usage by a customer posting the communications of various metadata tags such as hashtags may trigger the listener to submit the associated communication to the receiving entity. The receiving entity may as previously noted be any appropriate entity such as the ingestion engine of .

Upon receiving unstructured data linguistic stemming is applied to locate certain keywords . Stemming algorithms may for example reduce various words to their roots to facilitate later processing. For example a stemming algorithm may reduce words ending in ed ing ly or s by removing such suffixes. Analogously an adaptive algorithm may be employed that takes into account irregularities in inflecting or conjugating certain words. Thus crashed may be reduced to crash and in some embodiments ran may be reduced to run. 

An implementing entity further processes the data received at step by determining analogous words in the received data to those for example predetermined by an ontology such as that described in connection with at least . For example if predetermined keywords include the phrase auto insurance data including the phrase car insurance may be construed to contain the keyword auto insurance. The determination may rely on either a static technique such as the use of a predefined thesaurus or a dynamic and or adaptive technique wherein the entity continuously learns through feedback the relationship between various words with similar meanings. It is contemplated that such a technique may be configurable to recognize any number of words or length of phrase depending on the specific need.

Once the keywords in the incoming data have been determined according to steps and the proximity and or weights of the determined keywords within the data are assessed . Certain keywords may be given a stronger correlative weight to for example a given node of an ontology tree. For example the word instance may have a strong correlation to a node corresponding to a service that provides virtualized instances while the word down may not have a similar weight. The proximity of keywords may also be used to further define their significance. For example the phrase the instance is down may contain two keywords instance and down in close proximity which indicates a correlation between them. Further processing for example by the decision tree of may take this correlation into account and determine that a virtual instance of a service has failed. By contrast the phrase the instance has several attached volumes that all went down may be interpreted as placing the keywords instance and down far apart and thus not closely correlated. However volumes and down are in relative proximity and further processing may result in a determination that the attached volumes and not the instances have failed.

Once the data has been processed according to steps and the processed data is submitted to an entity or entities with determinative knowledge for example the decision tree of or implementing entities thereof as described in connection with . As previously mentioned the data submitted at step may be used in a fashion similar to structured data also received by for example the decision tree or implementing entities. In some embodiments the techniques described at least in connection with and may be used for further processing and or determination.

The illustrative environment includes at least one application server and a data store . It should be understood that there can be several application servers layers or other elements processes or components which may be chained or otherwise configured which can interact to perform tasks such as obtaining data from an appropriate data store. As used herein the term data store refers to any device or combination of devices capable of storing accessing and retrieving data which may include any combination and number of data servers databases data storage devices and data storage media in any standard distributed or clustered environment. The application server can include any appropriate hardware and software for integrating with the data store as needed to execute aspects of one or more applications for the client device handling a majority of the data access and business logic for an application. The application server provides access control services in cooperation with the data store and is able to generate content such as text graphics audio and or video to be transferred to the user which may be served to the user by the Web server in the form of HTML XML or another appropriate structured language in this example. The handling of all requests and responses as well as the delivery of content between the client device and the application server can be handled by the Web server. It should be understood that the Web and application servers are not required and are merely example components as structured code discussed herein can be executed on any appropriate device or host machine as discussed elsewhere herein.

The data store can include several separate data tables databases or other data storage mechanisms and media for storing data relating to a particular aspect. For example the data store illustrated includes mechanisms for storing production data and user information which can be used to serve content for the production side. The data store also is shown to include a mechanism for storing log data which can be used for reporting analysis or other such purposes. It should be understood that there can be many other aspects that may need to be stored in the data store such as for page image information and to access right information which can be stored in any of the above listed mechanisms as appropriate or in additional mechanisms in the data store . The data store is operable through logic associated therewith to receive instructions from the application server and obtain update or otherwise process data in response thereto. In one example a user might submit a search request for a certain type of item. In this case the data store might access the user information to verify the identity of the user and can access the catalog detail information to obtain information about items of that type. The information then can be returned to the user such as in a results listing on a Web page that the user is able to view via a browser on the user device . Information for a particular item of interest can be viewed in a dedicated page or window of the browser.

Each server typically will include an operating system that provides executable program instructions for the general administration and operation of that server and typically will include a computer readable storage medium e.g. a hard disk random access memory read only memory etc. storing instructions that when executed by a processor of the server allow the server to perform its intended functions. Suitable implementations for the operating system and general functionality of the servers are known or commercially available and are readily implemented by persons having ordinary skill in the art particularly in light of the disclosure herein.

The environment in one embodiment is a distributed computing environment utilizing several computer systems and components that are interconnected via communication links using one or more computer networks or direct connections. However it will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art that such a system could operate equally well in a system having fewer or a greater number of components than are illustrated in . Thus the depiction of the system in should be taken as being illustrative in nature and not limiting to the scope of the disclosure.

The various embodiments further can be implemented in a wide variety of operating environments which in some cases can include one or more user computers computing devices or processing devices which can be used to operate any of a number of applications. User or client devices can include any of a number of general purpose personal computers such as desktop or laptop computers running a standard operating system as well as cellular wireless and handheld devices running mobile software and capable of supporting a number of networking and messaging protocols. Such a system also can include a number of workstations running any of a variety of commercially available operating systems and other known applications for purposes such as development and database management. These devices also can include other electronic devices such as dummy terminals thin clients gaming systems and other devices capable of communicating via a network.

Most embodiments utilize at least one network that would be familiar to those skilled in the art for supporting communications using any of a variety of commercially available protocols such as TCP IP OSI FTP UPnP NFS CIFS and AppleTalk. The network can be for example a local area network a wide area network a virtual private network the Internet an intranet an extranet a public switched telephone network an infrared network a wireless network and any combination thereof.

In embodiments utilizing a Web server the Web server can run any of a variety of server or mid tier applications including HTTP servers FTP servers CGI servers data servers Java servers and business application servers. The server s also may be capable of executing programs or scripts in response requests from user devices such as by executing one or more Web applications that may be implemented as one or more scripts or programs written in any programming language such as Java C C or C or any scripting language such as Perl Python or TCL as well as combinations thereof. The server s may also include database servers including without limitation those commercially available from Oracle Microsoft Sybase and IBM .

The environment can include a variety of data stores and other memory and storage media as discussed above. These can reside in a variety of locations such as on a storage medium local to and or resident in one or more of the computers or remote from any or all of the computers across the network. In a particular set of embodiments the information may reside in a storage area network SAN familiar to those skilled in the art. Similarly any necessary files for performing the functions attributed to the computers servers or other network devices may be stored locally and or remotely as appropriate. Where a system includes computerized devices each such device can include hardware elements that may be electrically coupled via a bus the elements including for example at least one central processing unit CPU at least one input device e.g. a mouse keyboard controller touch screen or keypad and at least one output device e.g. a display device printer or speaker . Such a system may also include one or more storage devices such as disk drives optical storage devices and solid state storage devices such as random access memory RAM or read only memory ROM as well as removable media devices memory cards flash cards etc.

Such devices also can include a computer readable storage media reader a communications device e.g. a modem a network card wireless or wired an infrared communication device etc. and working memory as described above. The computer readable storage media reader can be connected with or configured to receive a computer readable storage medium representing remote local fixed and or removable storage devices as well as storage media for temporarily and or more permanently containing storing transmitting and retrieving computer readable information. The system and various devices also typically will include a number of software applications modules services or other elements located within at least one working memory device including an operating system and application programs such as a client application or Web browser. It should be appreciated that alternate embodiments may have numerous variations from that described above. For example customized hardware might also be used and or particular elements might be implemented in hardware software including portable software such as applets or both. Further connection to other computing devices such as network input output devices may be employed.

Storage media and computer readable media for containing code or portions of code can include any appropriate media known or used in the art including storage media and communication media such as but not limited to volatile and non volatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage and or transmission of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data including RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disk DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by a system device. Based on the disclosure and teachings provided herein a person of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate other ways and or methods to implement the various embodiments.

The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense. It will however be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereunto without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention as set forth in the claims.

Other variations are within the spirit of the present disclosure. Thus while the disclosed techniques are susceptible to various modifications and alternative constructions certain illustrated embodiments thereof are shown in the drawings and have been described above in detail. It should be understood however that there is no intention to limit the invention to the specific form or forms disclosed but on the contrary the intention is to cover all modifications alternative constructions and equivalents falling within the spirit and scope of the invention as defined in the appended claims.

The use of the terms a and an and the and similar referents in the context of describing the disclosed embodiments especially in the context of the following claims are to be construed to cover both the singular and the plural unless otherwise indicated herein or clearly contradicted by context. The terms comprising having including and containing are to be construed as open ended terms i.e. meaning including but not limited to unless otherwise noted. The term connected is to be construed as partly or wholly contained within attached to or joined together even if there is something intervening. Recitation of ranges of values herein are merely intended to serve as a shorthand method of referring individually to each separate value falling within the range unless otherwise indicated herein and each separate value is incorporated into the specification as if it were individually recited herein. All methods described herein can be performed in any suitable order unless otherwise indicated herein or otherwise clearly contradicted by context. The use of any and all examples or exemplary language e.g. such as provided herein is intended merely to better illuminate embodiments of the invention and does not pose a limitation on the scope of the invention unless otherwise claimed. No language in the specification should be construed as indicating any non claimed element as essential to the practice of the invention.

Preferred embodiments of this disclosure are described herein including the best mode known to the inventors for carrying out the invention. Variations of those preferred embodiments may become apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art upon reading the foregoing description. The inventors expect skilled artisans to employ such variations as appropriate and the inventors intend for the invention to be practiced otherwise than as specifically described herein. Accordingly this invention includes all modifications and equivalents of the subject matter recited in the claims appended hereto as permitted by applicable law. Moreover any combination of the above described elements in all possible variations thereof is encompassed by the invention unless otherwise indicated herein or otherwise clearly contradicted by context.

All references including publications patent applications and patents cited herein are hereby incorporated by reference to the same extent as if each reference were individually and specifically indicated to be incorporated by reference and were set forth in its entirety herein.

