---

title: System and method for exposing customer availability to contact center agents
abstract: A system and method for establishing contact between a customer contact center agent and a customer based on customer availability information. A plurality of communication channels that may be used to communicate with the customer is monitored by the contact center. The availability of the customer is identified for each of the plurality of communication channels and user availability data is dynamically adjusted for each of the plurality of communication channels. The user availability data is provided to a contact center agent handling, for example, an offline task involving the customer. The contact center agent may use the availability data to establish contact with the customer to better handle the offline task.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08995644&OS=08995644&RS=08995644
owner: Genesys Telecommunications Laboratories, Inc.
number: 08995644
owner_city: Daly City
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121102
---
Embodiments of the present invention relate generally to systems and methods for operating customer contact centers and more particularly to a system and method for obtaining and providing customer availability information to contact center agents.

Businesses often use customer contact centers that include agents of the corresponding business to process transactions and or service the needs of their customers. Contact centers may also proactively contact potential and or existing customers for offering products conducting surveys or rendering other services to those customers. Traditional ways for customers and agents to communicate with one another is by telephone fax and or email. However recent trends in social networking multimedia and the Internet generally have increased the variety of communication channels available for establishing contact between customers and agents. The extended channels of communication may be used for businesses to stay more connected with their customers.

In traditional contact centers representatives of the business or agents are assigned to various customer tasks. Customer requests for live operator assistance or real time assisted services are commonly routed in push mode to the most appropriate agents serving as operators of the contact center. In push mode the records regarding the customer and or information relating to the call are pushed to one or more agents. The routing system of the contact center may analyze agents status information which may indicate whether a particular agent is busy with a given customer task or with some other activity such as training and which medium the agent is using in connection with that task. For work done by agents offline which may be referred to as back office work there is generally no visibility regarding the particular task the agent is handling for the customer. Furthermore customer presence information e.g. information indicating whether a customer is on hold in a queue is also not generally visible to the agents. Having information about customer availability may be useful for agents conducting offline tasks if the agents want to contact the customers to whom the tasks relate.

In some instances an agent engaged in an offline task may attempt to contact a customer by directly calling the customer s phone s . However attempting to connect with the customer in this manner may be inconvenient intrusive and or impractical. For example there may be multiple contact numbers on record for the customer some of which may no longer be up to date. Furthermore the availability of the customer prior to the attempted contact may be unknown to the agent. Accordingly the success rate of achieving contact with the customer may be low which may result in reluctance on the part of the agent to try to contact the customer in this manner again.

Accordingly what is desired is a system and method for providing to agents engaged in offline tasks ability to access and assess customer availability quickly and reliably for allowing such tasks to be more quickly resolved.

Embodiments of the present invention are directed to a system and method for establishing contact between a customer contact center agent and an end user. A plurality of communication channels are monitored by one or more processors. Availability of the end user on each of the plurality of communication channels is identified and user availability data is dynamically adjusted for each of the plurality of communication channels. The user availability data is provided to a contact center agent. Contact between the contact center agent and the end user is established via one of the plurality of communication channels for which the end user is identified as being available.

According to one embodiment one of the plurality of communication channels is with a mobile phone and the monitoring includes monitoring an application installed on the mobile phone. According to this embodiment the application may be configured to monitor user actions via the mobile phone and provide the user availability data based on the monitored user actions.

The plurality of communication channels may also be a telephony channel social media website or a chat channel.

According to one embodiment one of the plurality of communication channels is with a web browser and the monitoring includes monitoring a website for interactions with the end user.

According to one embodiment the user availability data indicates that the end user is unavailable for being contacted via the corresponding communication channel.

According to one embodiment the user availability data indicates that the end user is passively available for being contacted via the corresponding communication channel.

According to one embodiment a request is transmitted to the end user over the one of the plurality of communication channels and the establishing the contact between the contact center agent device and the end user is based on acceptance of the request by the end user.

According to one embodiment the user availability data is displayed in association with an activity to be completed by the contact center agent.

According to one embodiment in response to establishing the contact between the contact center agent and the end user the user availability data is modified for the communication channel used to establish the contact.

These and other features and aspects of embodiments of the present invention will be more fully understood when considered with respect to the following detailed description appended claims and accompanying drawings. Of course the actual scope of the invention is defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.

In general terms embodiments of the present invention are directed to a customer service center or a business contact center that operates by exposing customer presence information to agents of a contact center.

According to one exemplary embodiment agents are assigned a certain number of offline tasks such as for example emails letters internally generated tasks and the like by placing such tasks in the agents workbins. Agents who are not online with a customer e.g. via a voice connection may choose a next offline task for processing from the workbin. Certain tasks however are more complex than others and may require clarification from the given customer.

According to one exemplary embodiment agents have access to information on a customer s availability to engage in a live conversation with an agent in order to respond among other things questions that the agent may have while handling a task associated with the customer. The live conversation may be conducted for example via any known real time media channel such as for example chat text voice social media and the like. If the customer is identified as being available for a particular type of live conversation the agent may decide to engage the customer via the appropriate media channel and use the opportunity to clarify issues interactively using the selected media channel.

According to one exemplary embodiment of the invention one or more servers within the contact center monitor customer presence availability information on various real time interaction channels and dynamically adjust the customer availability data for each of the channels. The customer availability data is then provided to one or more agents. The customer presence information may also be statically configured. For example a customer may provide availability timeslots and this information may be stored in the customer s profile record. Such information may be captured for example from scheduled callbacks from a previous live conversation or the like.

According to one exemplary embodiment the contact center includes resources e.g. personnel computers and telecommunication equipment to enable delivery of services via telephone or other communication mechanisms. Such services may vary depending on the type of contact center and may range from customer service to help desk emergency response telemarketing order taking and the like.

Customers potential customers or other end users collectively referred to as customers desiring to receive services from the contact center may initiate inbound calls to the contact center via their end user devices collectively referenced as . Each of the end user devices may be a communication device conventional in the art such as for example a telephone wireless phone smart phone personal computer electronic tablet and or the like.

Inbound and outbound calls from and to the end users devices may traverse a telephone cellular and or data communication network depending on the type of device that is being used. For example the communications network may include a private or public switched telephone network PSTN local area network LAN private wide area network WAN and or public wide area network such as for example the Internet. The communications network may also include a wireless carrier network including a code division multiple access CDMA network global system for mobile communications GSM network and or any 3G or 4G network conventional in the art.

According to one exemplary embodiment the contact center includes a switch media gateway coupled to the communications network for receiving and transmitting calls between end users and the contact center. The switch media gateway may include a telephony switch configured to function as a central switch for agent level routing within the center. In this regard the switch media gateway may include an automatic call distributor a private branch exchange PBX an IP based software switch and or any other switch or media gateway configured to receive Internet sourced calls and or telephone network sourced calls. According to one exemplary embodiment of the invention the switch media gateway is coupled to a call server which may for example serve as an adapter or interface between the switch media gateway and the remainder of the routing monitoring and other call handling systems of the contact center.

The contact center may also include a multimedia social media server for engaging in media interactions other than telephony calls with the end user devices and or web servers . The media interactions may be related for example to email chat text messaging web social media and the like. The web servers may include for example social interaction site hosts for a variety of known social interaction sites to which an end user may subscribe such as for example Facebook Twitter and the like. The web servers may also provide web pages for the enterprise that is being supported by the contact center. End users may browse the web pages and get information about the enterprise s products and services. The web pages may also provide a mechanism for contacting the contact center via for example web chat voice call email web real time communication WebRTC or the like.

According to one exemplary embodiment of the invention the switch media gateway is coupled to an interactive voice response IVR server . The IVR server is configured for example with an IVR script for querying customers on their needs. For example a contact center for a bank may tell callers via the IVR script to press 1 if they wish to get an account balance. If this is the case through continued interaction with the IVR customers may complete service without needing to speak with an agent.

If the call is to be routed to an agent the call is forwarded to the call server which interacts with a routing server for finding the most appropriate agent for processing the call. The call server may be configured to process PSTN calls VoIP calls and the like. For example the call server may include a session initiation protocol SIP server for processing SIP calls.

In one example while an agent is being located and until such agent becomes available the call server may place the call in a call queue. The call queue may be implemented via any data structure conventional in the art such as for example a linked list array and or the like. The data structure may be maintained for example in buffer memory provided by the call server .

Once an appropriate agent is available to handle a call the call is removed from the call queue and transferred to the corresponding agent device collectively referenced as . Collected information about the caller and or the caller s historical information may also be provided to the agent device for aiding the agent in better servicing the call. In this regard each agent device may include a telephone adapted for regular telephone calls VoIP calls and the like. The agent device may also include a computer for communicating with one or more servers of the contact center and performing data processing associated with contact center operations.

The selection of an appropriate agent for routing an inbound call may be based for example on a routing strategy employed by the routing server and further based on information about agent availability skills and other routing parameters provided for example by a statistics server . According to one exemplary embodiment of the invention the statistics server includes a customer availability aggregation CAA module for monitoring availability of end users on different communication channels and providing such information to for example the routing server agent devices and or other contact center applications and devices. The CAA module may also be deployed in a separate application server. The aggregation module may be a software module implemented via computer program instructions which are stored in memory of the statistics server or some other server and which program instructions are executed by a processor. A person of skill in the art should recognize that the aggregation module may also be implemented via firmware e.g. an application specific integrated circuit hardware or a combination of software firmware and hardware.

According to one exemplary embodiment the aggregation module is configured to receive customer availability information from other devices in the contact center such as for example the multimedia social media server . For example the multimedia social media server may be configured to detect user presence on different websites including social media sites and provide such information to the aggregation module . The web monitoring server may also be configured to monitor and track interactions on those websites.

The multimedia social media server may also be configured to provide to an end user a mobile application for downloading onto the end user device . The mobile application may provide user configurable settings that indicate for example whether the user is available not available or availability is unknown for purposes of being contacted by a contact center agent. The multimedia social media server may monitor the status settings and send updates to the aggregation module each time the status information changes.

The contact center may also include a reporting server configured to generate reports from data aggregated by the statistics server . Such reports may include near real time reports or historical reports concerning the state of resources such as for example average waiting time abandonment rate agent occupancy and the like. The reports may be generated automatically or in response to specific requests from a requestor e.g. agent administrator contact center application and or the like .

According to one exemplary embodiment of the invention the routing server is enhanced with functionality for managing back office offline activities that are assigned to the agents. Such activities may include for example responding to emails responding to letters attending training seminars or any other activity that does not entail real time communication with a customer. Once assigned to an agent an activity may appear in the agent s workbin collectively referenced as as a task to be completed by the agent. The agent s workbin may be implemented via any data structure conventional in the art such as for example a linked list array and or the like. The workbin may be maintained for example in buffer memory in each agent s computer device.

According to one exemplary embodiment of the invention the contact center also includes a mass storage device for storing data related to contact center operations such as for example information related to agents customers customer interactions and the like. The mass storage device may take form of a hard disk or disk array as is conventional in the art.

The various servers of may each include one or more processors executing computer program instructions and interacting with other system components for performing the various functionalities described herein. The computer program instructions are stored in a memory implemented using a standard memory device such as for example a random access memory RAM . The computer program instructions may also be stored in other non transitory computer readable media such as for example a CD ROM flash drive or the like. Also although the functionality of each of the servers is described as being provided by the particular server a person of skill in the art should recognize that the functionality of various servers may be combined or integrated into a single server or the functionality of a particular server may be distributed across one or more other servers without departing from the scope of the embodiments of the present invention.

According to one exemplary embodiment customers use the end user devices to establish presence on the various communication channels . The aggregation module directly or indirectly monitors the various communication channels determines the state of the end users on the communication channels and dynamically adjusts customer availability data based on the determined state. The state of the end users may also be determined based on pre populated availability information stored in the mass storage device . For example pre populated availability information may be stored in each customer s profile record. For example if the user has requested a call back to resolve a particular issue at a particular date and or time such information may be stored in the user s profile record. The records may also indicate the customer s preferred mode of contact e.g. via mobile phone during the weekdays but email on the weekends . The records may also indicate subject matters for which contact may be desired and the mode of contact. For example the records may dictate that simple billing issues are to be handled only via email or via the customer s compatible accounting software while changes to the customer s account information are to be handled via live contact.

A particular customer s availability state may be maintained for example in one or more state transition tables. For example a separate state transition table may be maintained per customer per communication channel in a buffer maintained by the statistics server . The availability information may then be provided to a requesting application agent via the agent device and or the like.

According to one exemplary embodiment in monitoring the mobile phone channel the aggregation module determines the setting of the mobile phone application downloaded onto the mobile phone devices of the different customers. The mobile phone application may be an application dedicated to communication with the contact center an application for accessing products and or services of the associated enterprise or the like. For example a banking enterprise may provide an application for downloading onto the mobile phone device. The application may be invoked by the customer to access bank account information conduct financial transactions communicate with customer service agents and the like.

According to one exemplary embodiment of the invention the application may provide user configurable settings for indicating the availability state of the customer for purposes of being contacted by a contact center agent. The customer may manually set his or her availability state and or the availability state may be set automatically in response to detection of certain actions by the customer. For example the application may be configured to monitor user interactions with the mobile device such as for example initiating calls terminating calls and the like and update a customer state based on such interactions. The application may be configured to transmit the customer state information to the multimedia social media server which in turn forwards the information to the aggregation module. Of course the application may be configured to transmit the customer state information directly to the aggregation module .

According to one exemplary embodiment if the application is installed on an end user device but disabled the state of the associated customer is set to unknown. If the application is active but the setting is set to blocked the state of the customer for the mobile phone channel is also set to blocked. For example the user may be actively using the application but may have expressly set the setting to blocked to indicate that the user does not want to be contacted by an agent.

According to one exemplary embodiment a user may set the setting of the application and hence the state of the user for the mobile phone channel to be passive active or passive available. The passive active or passive available setting may also be automatically set upon activating the application. In a passive active or passive available setting the customer agrees that the contact center may alert the user that a live contact is desired as needed. The alert may be for example a text message requesting permission for the live contact. If however the user responds to such a text message indicating the no such contact is desired the users state may transition to blocked. According to one example the user s state may remain in the blocked state for a particular time period or until another input is detected by the application which triggers transition to a different state.

According to one exemplary embodiment the application may provide an option for the user to launch an explicit request to get in contact with an agent. For example the application may provide a button prompting the customer to press the button to either initiate a contact to an agent or get a callback from an agent. In the latter scenario actuating the button may cause the user s mobile phone device to transmit a callback request to the multimedia social media server which then forwards the request to the call and or routing server for identifying an agent to process the request. The application may further update the user state to indicate that the user is actively waiting to be contacted and forward the updated state for receipt by the aggregation module for storing with respect to the mobile phone channel . In lieu or in addition to a call the contact and or callback may utilize another form of media such as for example chat. In other embodiments both the user and agent may negotiate a best time for establishing live contact and then either party may initiate the session.

With respect to the web channel the web monitoring server may monitor the user s actions on particular websites and forward the information to the aggregation module . In this regard tracking codes may be embedded in each web page of a website that is monitored for visitor activity. The tracking code may be for example a JavaScript code ActionScript code or the like. The script may define the type of activities that are to be monitored including without limitation activities to access website features navigation on the webpages and between webpages search activities interaction with product ads electronic shopping activities and the like. The state of the visitor to the website may be set based on the monitored interactions. For example the state of the user may be set to passive availability while a user interacts with the monitored website. If in response to notification e.g. a pop up message requesting permission to contact the customer the user indicates that no such contact is desired e.g. by selecting a no thank you option on the pop up the state of the user may transition to blocked for the current session on the website. According to another example the state of the user may transition to unknown after a certain amount of time has elapsed without receiving interactions from the user s end device. The state may also transition to actively waiting upon detecting that the user has selected a help button has entered a help search request has selected a callback button or the like.

With respect to the social media channel the web monitoring server may monitor a user s activity on various social media websites e.g. Facebook Twitter etc. and forward the information to the aggregation module . Particular social media websites may expose a subscriber s activity information via an application programming interface API . In this regard the web monitoring server interfaces with the APIs to obtain information about a particular user such as for example whether the user is logged in types of transactions conducted by the user the time of transactions and the like. The web monitoring server may forward this information to the aggregation module for setting the user s state on the particular social web media channel. For example if the user is logged in on a particular social media website the aggregation module may automatically set the user s state information for that particular social media channel to be passive available. If the user has blocked his login information from being exposed via for example his privacy settings the user s state information may be marked as being unknown. The social media website may also have a setting expressly set on the social media website which indicates that the user does not want to be contacted or is actively waiting to be contacted.

With respect to the voice and chat channels the call server or a separate chat server not shown may monitor a call voice queue and chat queue for determining whether the user is actively waiting in the queue for conversation with an agent. If so the user s state for the voice or chat channel may be set to be waiting. According to exemplary embodiments the voice queue includes landline calls Internet telephony calls and the like.

In one exemplary embodiment the customer availability states may be set based on actively monitored availability information or from a combination of actively monitored availability information and pre populated availability information. According to one exemplary embodiment the pre populated availability information may trump a conflicting availability info nation provided by dynamically monitoring the various communication channels. According to another exemplary embodiment the dynamically monitored state information may trump a conflicting pre populated availability information.

In the example of availability of three customers are provided with respect to the mobile phone channel web channel and voice channel . As a person of skill in the art will recognize embodiments of the present invention are not limited to the particular availability states or communication channels depicted in and may encompass other availability states and or communication channels which are well known in the art. Furthermore embodiments of the present invention cover any conventional mechanism for depicting the particular availability states such as for example different colors text drawings designs and the like.

In the exemplary embodiment of customer is identified as active available via text color graphics or any other visual and or audio representation indicating that the customer is actively waiting to be contacted over the mobile phone while his availability on the web and voice channels are indicated as being unknown or absent . Customer is identified as being blocked on the mobile phone e.g. by setting the corresponding application on a blocked state while his availability on the web is deemed to be passive available. For example customer may be browsing products or services on a monitored website. Customer s availability on the voice channel is indicated as being unknown. 

Customer is identified as being passive available on the mobile phone while active available on the web channel and waiting in a voice queue. For example customer while conducting a particular transaction on a monitored website selects a button on the website to transmit a request for assistance. The actuation of such a button causes the aggregation module to transition the user s state on the web to active available. The customer after or before actuating the help button also places a call to the contact center and is placed on hold causing the aggregation module to set the user s state for the voice channel as waiting. Once the user is engaged in a conversation with an agent the user s state for the voice channel may transition to busy on call. 

In step an agent process executed by an agent device retrieves an offline task from an agent workbin in response to an agent command. The agent command may be provided via a user input device such as for example a keyboard and or mouse. For example the agent may use the user input device to select a particular task displayed on his or her monitor. The task may be associated with a task ID customer information task information and the like. The task may be for example to respond to an email letter request for a callback or the like.

In step the agent process determines whether the customer s availability information is to be retrieved. For example the agent may expressly request for such availability information via his or her user input device. In other embodiments the agent process may be configured to automatically retrieve the availability status of each customer associated with a task in the agent s workbin. According to the latter scenario the customer availability information may be shown for each individual interaction in the agent s workbin and the agent may first pick those interactions with positive customer presence information. The availability information may be shown via text graphics color or any other audio visual representation conventional in the art.

If the availability status is to be retrieved the request is forwarded to the aggregation module . The aggregation module in step retrieves and forwards to the requesting agent device the user s availability states for the various communication channels. The customer s availability information may be displayed for example next to the task associated with the customer.

According to one exemplary embodiment one or more of the communication channels may be highlighted as being a preferred mode of contact based on one or more parameters. Such parameters may include without limitation the particular task to be performed the customer s static availability information retrieved from the customer s profile record the customer s expressly indicated contact preference and the like. For example if the dynamic availability information for a particular customer indicates passive available for both the mobile phone channel and web channel but the customer s preferred mode of contact for billing inquiries is via a call to the customer s cell phone the aggregation module may highlight or otherwise mark the mobile phone channel as a preferred contact medium if the task is billing related.

In step the agent process determines whether the agent has requested live contact with the customer via one of the channels on which the customer is identified as being available. The agent s decision to contact the customer may be driven by a variety of factors including for example 

If the agent has requested the live contact the agent process determines in step whether there are one or more other open tasks associated with the customer for aggregating with the current task. If there are any additional open tasks associated with the customer such tasks may be aggregated with the current task in step . Alternatively the tasks are not aggregated. The aggregation of tasks may be done by one or more servers such as for example by the routing server or another scheduling server as will be understood by a person of skill in the art. In this manner if the other tasks require clarification or live contact with the customer the agent may resolve those issues during the contact for the current task. The aggregation of tasks may invoke reassignment of tasks from one agent to another. The reassignment may according to one example be just tentative and depend on whether the agent to whom the tasks are aggregate is successful in making live contact with the customer.

Of course the aggregation of tasks is optional and the process may be configured to proceed without checking whether tasks are to be aggregated.

In step the agent process transmits to the routing server a request to contact the customer via the identified communication channel. The request may invoke an arbitration process if multiple agents have transmitted similar requests to contact the same customer or if the customer is actively waiting in queue for being served by an agent. In the latter scenario the requesting agent may be assigned to handle servicing of the call if deemed to have the right skills.

In step the agent process determines whether the request has been granted. If the answer is YES the routing server invokes the call server or another appropriate media server in step to initiate the contact with the customer via the communication channel. For example if the contact is via the mobile phone channel the call server is invoked for initiating an outbound call to the end user s mobile device. According to one exemplary embodiment the agent may first request permission from the customer to be contacted via the identified communication channel. For example the agent may first transmit a text to the mobile device requesting permission for the call. Once the customer confirms the interaction may be initiated by either the agent or the customer. If the customer is not ready for the call the agent and customer may negotiate a better time in which to engage in the call.

If the contact is via the web the appropriate media server initiates a web chat session Web real time communication WebRTC call or another browser based communication between the customer and the agent. If the contact is via social media the appropriate media server may identify the customer s social media account for allowing the agent to post comments transmit private message and the like. If however the contact is a voice call or chat session with a customer who is already waiting in a call or chat queue the customer s call may be removed from the call or chat queue and forwarded to the agent s telephone and or computer.

In step the particular communication channel for which contact is invoked is marked as unavailable or busy on call by the aggregation server.

In some situations although the customer presence information may indicate that the customer is available for a live interaction the customer may for various reasons not respond to the request for the live interaction. For example the customer may have temporarily stepped away from his end user device. According to one exemplary embodiment the process determines whether a connection attempt was in fact successful and if no connection is made with the customer over the selected communication channel the channel is marked as unavailable the agent is alerted of this fact and the process ends. According to some exemplary embodiments a certain number of attempts may be made to connect with the customer over the selected communication channel before deeming the communication channel as being unavailable. Of course the agent may decide to re initiate the contact over the same or different communication channel in the event of an unsuccessful connection.

The arbitration process starts and in step the routing server receives a connection request from an agent device. The request may include for example identification of the requesting agent identification of the customer to be contacted identification of the communication channel requested for the contact information on the task involved and the like.

In step the routing server determines whether it is appropriate to grant the connection to the requesting agent.

The routing server may consider various factors in granting or denying the connection such as for example 

a importance of the task s associated with the connection request the more important the task the more likely the request is to be granted 

b the customer s survey responses on previous similar contacts the more favorable the survey response the more likely the request is to be granted 

c amount of time elapsed since the last live contact with the customer too frequent contacts may want to be avoided and

According to one example if the weighing of different criteria results in a determination that the connection is to be denied the routing server denies the request in step and notifies the requesting agent of the denial. Otherwise if the connection is to be granted the routing server determines in step whether other agents have submitted requests to contact the customer via the same communication channel. In this regard the routing server may be configured to collect requests for a particular collection period before determining to whom to grant the request. The collection period may be configurable as well as self calibrating. This may help ensure fairness if certain agents have slower network connectivity.

If the answer is YES the routing server engages in arbitration for selecting in step the agent to whom the request is to be granted. According to one exemplary embodiment the selection of the agent based on requests collected during a present collection period may be random based on a last granted request or based on any other selection mechanism conventional in the art. In other exemplary embodiments the selection may be based on importance of the tasks assuming that the tasks were not aggregated and other criteria as will be apparent to a person of skill in the art.

In step the routing server grants the connection requested for the selected agent and denies other conflicting requests. According to one exemplary embodiment the tasks of the agents that were denied the connection request may be assigned to the agent that was granted the request.

In step the customer state information is forwarded to one or more agent devices . For example the state information may automatically be displayed next to a task that is pending for the customer. The customer state information may also be provided upon request from a particular agent.

In step the customer invokes his end user device to interact with the mobile application and indicate his desire to speak to a customer service agent. For example the customer may transmit a request via the mobile application to get in touch with a customer service agent. In response the mobile application sets the customer status as active available and transmits the status information to the aggregation module in step . The customer state information is then forwarded to one or more agent devices in step .

According to one exemplary embodiment of the invention the request from the customer is received by the multimedia social media server and forwarded to the routing server . According to one example the routing server generates a task for the customer request and assigns the task to a specific agent. In step an agent assigned to the task views the customer s state as being active available on the mobile phone channel and accordingly dials a call to the customer s mobile phone number. The agent may also initiate other modes of communication with the mobile phone in addition or in lieu of a voice call e.g. text messaging .

When a voice connection is made between the user s mobile phone and the calling agent the mobile application is notified of the connection in step . In response the mobile application sets the customer state as busy on call and transmits the state information to the aggregation module in step . The customer state information is then forwarded to one or more agent devices in step .

In step the call between the customer and the agent terminates and the mobile application is notified of this fact in step . In response the mobile application sets the customer state as passive available and transmits the state information to the aggregation module in step . The customer state information is then forwarded to one or more agent devices in step .

A person of skill in the art should recognize that embodiments of the present invention may help agents assess customer availability information quickly and reliably for making live contact with the customers. By making live contact with the customers when such customers are detected as being available agents may be able to clarify issues gather information and resolve tasks more efficiently than it would be possible without a live contact.

Although this invention has been described in certain specific embodiments those skilled in the art will have no difficulty devising variations to the described embodiment which in no way depart from the scope and spirit of the present invention. Furthermore to those skilled in the various arts the invention itself herein will suggest solutions to other tasks and adaptations for other applications. For example although in exemplary embodiments the customer availability information is provided to agents handling offline tasks a person of skill in the art should recognize that the availability information may also be provided to other types of agents such as for example agents actively responding to customer calls or otherwise engaged in real time communication with the customers. For example such agents may check whether the customer is present on other media channels e.g. a website and suggest interacting with the customer via such other media channels e.g. pushing video through those channels .

It is the applicants intention to cover by claims all such uses of the invention and those changes and modifications which could be made to the embodiments of the invention herein chosen for the purpose of disclosure without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Thus the present embodiments of the invention should be considered in all respects as illustrative and not restrictive the scope of the invention to be indicated by the appended claims and their equivalents rather than the foregoing description.

