---

title: Reputation report with score
abstract: An online reputation assessment of an individual is performed. A reputation score is determined based on the performed online reputation assessment. The reputation score is provided as output. In some cases, the reputation score is provided to an entity that is not the individual, for example, based on the receipt of an authorization from the individual to disclose the score to the entity.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08805699&OS=08805699&RS=08805699
owner: Reputation.com, Inc.
number: 08805699
owner_city: Redwood City
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121221
---
Increasingly when a first person chooses to learn more about a second person the first person will perform an online search with respect to the second person. Unfortunately the search results may be inaccurate or provide an incomplete picture of the second person. The first person may make important and potentially erroneous decisions about the second person based on the search results.

The invention can be implemented in numerous ways including as a process an apparatus a system a composition of matter a computer program product embodied on a computer readable storage medium and or a processor such as a processor configured to execute instructions stored on and or provided by a memory coupled to the processor. In this specification these implementations or any other form that the invention may take may be referred to as techniques. In general the order of the steps of disclosed processes may be altered within the scope of the invention. Unless stated otherwise a component such as a processor or a memory described as being configured to perform a task may be implemented as a general component that is temporarily configured to perform the task at a given time or a specific component that is manufactured to perform the task. As used herein the term processor refers to one or more devices circuits and or processing cores configured to process data such as computer program instructions.

A detailed description of one or more embodiments of the invention is provided below along with accompanying figures that illustrate the principles of the invention. The invention is described in connection with such embodiments but the invention is not limited to any embodiment. The scope of the invention is limited only by the claims and the invention encompasses numerous alternatives modifications and equivalents. Numerous specific details are set forth in the following description in order to provide a thorough understanding of the invention. These details are provided for the purpose of example and the invention may be practiced according to the claims without some or all of these specific details. For the purpose of clarity technical material that is known in the technical fields related to the invention has not been described in detail so that the invention is not unnecessarily obscured.

Reputation report platform is configured to obtain data pertaining to Alice and Bob from a variety of sources. As shown such sources include search engines blog server and social networking site other sources can also be used such as news sites people search sites. Data can include text in various formats as well as image or other applicable types of information. Reputation report platform can obtain the data from sources in a variety of ways including by scraping publicly available information by using one or more Application Programming Interfaces APIs and or by using authorization credentials provided by individuals such as Alice and Bob. As one example of the latter case Bob may have an account on social networking site but have privacy settings on his profile that limit the profile s visibility to the public. Bob can provide credentials or other authorization to reputation report platform so that platform can access Bob s profile and also potentially view other information on site that would be visible to Bob when logged into the site but not otherwise visible to platform .

At documents potentially associated with the individual whose reputation report has been requested are retrieved. As one example after receiving Alice s request at report coordinator instructs search module to perform a search via search engine for documents pertaining to Alice e.g. by instructing search module to perform a search for Alice Smith . In some embodiments prior to the commencement of process Alice has registered for an account on platform and has filled out profile information e.g. listing her full name as Alice Smith. In other embodiments process commences when Alice types her full name into an interface provided by platform irrespective of whether Alice has signed up for an account.

The results returned by search engine are an example of documents retrieved at . Portion of the process can be performed in a variety of manners and can be performed before and or after the processing performed at . For example in some embodiments search module queries multiple sources e.g. search engines and regarding Alice. Search module can also be configured to query different types of sources e.g. search engines and social networking sites . Search results can be obtained and stored e.g. in storage in which case at least some documents retrieved at are retrieved from storage rather than a service such as search engine .

At a set of codings for at least some of the documents retrieved at is performed. In some embodiments Alice is asked to code at least some of the documents. An interface for performing the coding is shown in . As will be explained in more detail below examples of codings include this document does not pertain to me and this is negative information about me. In some embodiments a default coding of neutral is employed. Also as will be explained in more detail below the codings can be multi dimensional. For example a newspaper article describing Alice s volunteer work at a local animal shelter can be coded as a positive document from a trustworthy source while a social networking rant by a former boyfriend can be coded as a negative document pertaining to her romantic life. Also as explained above a third party can use the interface shown in on Alice s behalf.

In some embodiments the documents are at least partially coded by platform . For example a classifier can be employed to determine a preliminary coding of at least some of the documents and Alice can optionally be asked to confirm or adjust the preliminary coding. As one example classifier can use sentiment analysis techniques to determine whether a document is positive or negative. As another example classifier can be configured to use the domain from which a result is retrieved to impute a coding. For example classifier can be configured with a list of positive sites and negative sites such that if an individual s name appears on a charitable organization s page i.e. positive the result can be automatically coded as positive and if it appears on a sex offender registry site i.e. negative the result can be automatically coded as negative. As yet another example classifier can be configured to automatically code domains as trustworthy or not or neutral based on a predefined list or based on other information such as a site s Page Rank. As yet another example classifier can be configured to automatically code results as credible or not based on their age. For example an article that has been available online for a long period of time can be treated as more credible than one that was recently added. Classifier s coding can also be used without confirmation from Alice. As another example platform can be configured to use a service such as Amazon s Mechanical Turk to perform coding and or preliminary coding.

At a reputation assessment is made by assessor based at least in part on the coded documents and at a report is generated. An example of a reputation report is shown in . In some embodiments the report includes recommendations such as recommendations for improving one s online reputation. The report can also include one or more reputation scores discussed in more detail below.

The first result is about a different Alice Smith so Alice selects This is not me from dropdown . Name confusion can cause the reputations of others i.e. other Alice Smiths to impact Alice s reputation. The second result is a positive news article about Alice so she selects Positive from dropdown . The third result is a third party website page that reveals Alice s telephone number so she selects Private Info Exposed from dropdown . Other examples of labels Alice can use to code documents include Negative indicating that the document says harmful things about Alice and Worth Monitoring indicating that the document is worth monitoring to make sure it does not become an issue in the future . Also included for each result presented in interface is a checkbox e.g. that allows Alice to indicate whether she controls the content. For example if a result displayed in interface is from Alice s personal blog e.g. hosted on server or her profile on a social networking site e.g. site Alice would check the checkbox adjacent to that result. If the result displayed was authored by someone else e.g. appearing in a newspaper Alice would not check the checkbox. In some embodiments whether or not Alice controls a result is determined by platform . For example if the result is Alice s profile on a social networking site platform can automatically conclude that Alice is able to modify the result.

As mentioned above in some embodiments platform supports multi dimensional coding. Using result as an example an example of a multi dimensional coding is Positive and Trustworthy. The second dimension trustworthy indicates that the source a newspaper is considered a trustworthy source of information. As a contrasting example a blog page set up under a pseudonym on a free site might be coded as Untrustworthy. Other examples of second dimensions i.e. combined with Positive or Negative to form multi dimensional codings include topical biographical areas such as Health Romantic Relationships Ethics Competence and Finance. An article praising a surgeon s good outcomes could be coded as Positive Competence and a blog post ridiculing an individual for losing a large sum of money in Las Vegas could be coded as Negative Finance. 

As Alice scrolls down the page presented in interface she will be presented with additional results to code. For example the top 20 results returned by search engine are presented in interface . In some embodiments if Alice codes more than a threshold number of results as not pertaining to her additional results are shown i.e. the next 20 results and she is asked to code those as well. As needed results from other sources can also be presented to ensure that a sufficient number of results pertaining to Alice have been coded. For example the top 20 results from search engine are presented followed by the top 10 results from search engine and any results found on server or site .

In region of the report the percentage of results e.g. the top 20 results reviewed by Alice in interface that are negative harmful is displayed. According to report 5 of the top results for Alice Smith are negative.

In region of the report the percentage of results e.g. the top 20 results reviewed by Alice in interface that are controllable editable by Alice are shown. According to report 30 of the top results for Alice Smith are pages such as blog posts written by Alice Alice s profile on social networking site and or other places where Alice can modify what appears there.

In region Alice is alerted that personal information about her is exposed. In example report region shows either a yes or a no. Alice s report includes a yes in this region because her phone number is publicly available on a people search site. In other embodiments region displays other information such as by explicitly stating which information is exposed e.g. phone number birthday home address and or the number of sites that expose her information.

In region Alice is alerted that at least some of the results in the top 20 results for Alice Smith are not about her but are about at least one other individual named Alice Smith. As with region the information presented in region can take a variety of forms. For example in some embodiments region indicates the percentage of pages about Alice vs. other people sharing her name.

Region of report includes an assessment of Alice s reputation. In particular it highlights to her that one of the results in the top 20 results is negative and explains why that is problematic. Additional assessment information e.g. warning her about the exposure of her personal information is available to Alice by clicking on region .

Region of report includes individualized recommendations for how Alice can improve her online reputation based on an analysis of the top results. In particular Alice owns i.e. can edit a fair amount of the top results. A recommendation is made to Alice that she can push the one negative result lower i.e. from appearing in the top 20 results to a lower position by authoring more content such as more blog posts on her blog or by signing up for professional services. If a result is coded as negative and also is coded as being controllable editable by Alice a recommendation would be made that Alice edit otherwise remove the negative material since she has the ability to do so.

The following are additional examples of assessments that can be made about an individual s online reputation and examples of recommended actions those individuals can take.

ASSESSMENT You have negative content in the search results seen by 99 of people who look for you online. According to ACME Interactive 3 out of 4 individuals would refuse to interact with a person after finding negative information about them online.

RECOMMENDATION You have a highly rated blog. Write more posts or hire us to bury the negative content using ReputationDefender our experts strategically create professional content for you you review and approve our writing and we promote this material online using our technologies. Positive content goes up and negative content goes down.

ASSESSMENT Your personal information is easily accessible through people search sites. This type of personal data can be used by identity thieves and stalkers to hurt you and your family. Identity theft costs American consumers 37 billion every year ACME Research . The personal data can also be used unfairly by those looking to employ date or do business with you e.g. to make decisions based on what part of town you live in or your age .

RECOMMENDATION Request that your information be removed from the following sites. We can simplify the safeguarding of your personal information using our one click MyPrivacy program. We automatically remove your personal information from the top people search sites and prevent them from re adding you again in the future. We also block Web tracking telemarketers and unsolicited postal mail.

ASSESSMENT Your search results include a lot of information about somebody else. People could think these results are about you giving them a bad impression. According to ACME Interactive 3 out of 4 individuals would refuse to interact with a person after finding negative information about them online.

RECOMMENDATION You need there to be more results about you in the top results for your name. Create more of your own content or have us help you bury the misleading items using ReputationDefender our experts strategically create professional content for you you review and approve our writing and we promote this material online using our technologies. Quality items go up and misleading content goes down.

ASSESSMENT You have a limited online presence and are vulnerable to misrepresentation. Search results can change overnight and surveys show that 3 out of 4 individuals would refuse to interact with a person after finding negative information about them online ACME Interactive .

RECOMMENDATION Expand your online presence by authoring more content such as by starting a blog or signing up for social networking sites. You can also use ReputationDefender our experts strategically create professional content for you you review and approve our writing and we promote this material online using our technologies. Quality items go up and any misleading content goes down.

ASSESSMENT Congratulations you currently have a strong online presence. However search results can change overnight and surveys show that 3 out of 4 individuals would refuse to interact with a person after finding negative information about them online ACME Interactive . Make sure to invest into upkeep for your online reputation.

RECOMMENDATION Allow us to monitor your results. If we notice a significant change in your online reputation we ll contact you immediately and help correct the situation.

ASSESSMENT You have negative content in your search results as well as people search sites that make you vulnerable to identity theft. Three out of four individuals would refuse to interact with a person after finding negative information about them online ACME Interactive and identity theft costs American consumers 37 billion every year ACME Research .

RECOMMENDATION Bury the negative content by writing more blog posts or by using our ReputationDefender technology safeguard your personal information by opting out of people search sites. We can make it easy with our one click MyPrivacy program.

In some embodiments reputation report platform includes a scoring engine configured to generate one or more reputation scores. As one example a general reputation score e.g. 85 100 can be determined for Alice by assigning scores to each of the values appearing in regions and summing multiplying or otherwise aggregating the results. The five factors can be weighted differently e.g. with Percent Negative being given more weight than Searches on Your Name. The score can be saved e.g. in storage periodically recomputed and used to help an individual such as Alice understand how her reputation has changed over time and what factors contribute most to how she is likely to be perceived by someone trying to find out more about her online.

Reputation scores can be included in a report such as reputation report and can also be provided by themselves without any additional information and for example without a recommendation omitting or modifying portion of the process shown in . In some embodiments instead of a specific value e.g. 85 or 85 100 a threshold value is applied and a person having a reputation above the threshold is acknowledged by platform as being considered reputable while someone with a score not meeting the threshold will not receive such an acknowledgment. Further multiple types of reputation scores can be computed e.g. pertaining to different aspects of an individual s reputation. As one example where multi dimensional coding is used e.g. at a subset of coded documents can be used in the analysis performed e.g. at rather than the entire set. For example only those results coded whether positive negative or neutral pertaining to a person s professional competence or to the person s romantic life can be used.

In the following example suppose that Bob would like to conduct business with Charlie. In particular Bob would like to sell his car to Charlie whom he met by placing a for sale advertisement on an online classified advertisement site. Charlie would like assurance that Bob is a reputable individual. Embodiments of reputation report platform can be used in a variety of ways both by Bob and by Charlie to help Charlie feel more comfortable about transacting with Bob.

As explained above in some embodiments platform is configured to receive credentials or other access authorization from an individual such as Bob with respect to a variety of services. For example Bob can provide to platform his credentials for social networking site allowing platform to access and analyze any private posts made by or about Bob. In this scenario all posts will be applicable to Bob and not for example someone else sharing his name so Bob will not need to code the results as belonging to him or not. Further classifier can perform sentiment analysis on the posts and Bob need not code the documents e.g. as positive or negative himself. Not enlisting Bob s assistance in coding documents can be done both as a convenience to Bob and also e.g. where Bob shares information collected by platform with others such as Charlie to help ensure that Bob does not attempt to game or otherwise tamper with his reputation information.

As another example Bob could provide his credentials for an online auction site to demonstrate his ownership of a particular account on the auction site having particular feedback. Any credentials provided by Bob and any information scraped from site or the auction site can be stored in storage as applicable. The documents pertaining to Bob can be used to generate a score that is sharable with Charlie in a variety of ways. As one example Bob could provide Charlie s email address to platform and platform could email Charlie Bob s reputation score. As another example Bob could instruct platform to make available his score to Charlie for a limited amount of time e.g. via a web interface .

In various embodiments some but not all aspects of Bob s reputation are considered by platform when performing analysis and scoring and or made available to Charlie. For example suppose Bob has an account on a dating website and has been subject to negative feedback from several of his dates due to his appearance. If Bob s entire reputation was assessed by platform to determine a single reputation score Bob s score might appear quite low due to the negative dating reviews. However Bob s reputation as a prospective date likely has very little bearing on whether or not he is sufficiently reputable to sell a car to Charlie. Indeed other aspects of Bob s reputation e.g. determined from blog posts news articles data from professional networking sites and online auction sites might be very positive and much more probative. A report for a particular purpose e.g. transact business with vs. date can be generated by platform accordingly by including or excluding certain documents from analysis based on their coding.

Additional examples of reputation assessments for specific purposes including reputation for employment renting real estate loan financing credit worthiness and admitting to school e.g. each of which might exclude romantic reputation information but include all other aspects . A further example includes pet adoption e.g. excluding job other professional information but including reputation information indicative of good character kindness .

An example of a reputation report that includes a variety of scores is depicted in . In particular includes an overall score for Bob as well as scores that focus on his reputation with respect to various aspects of his life . Bob can learn how each of the scores was determined and e.g. the top positive and negative documents contributing to each by clicking on a See why link e.g. link . In some embodiments if Bob clicks on link he will be shown content similar to that depicted in i.e. listing individual results and providing recommendations pertinent to the results .

In some embodiments Bob can provide the output generated by platform e.g. a report similar to report and or one or more scores to a prospective employer or other entity interested in Bob s reputation allowing the employer to verify that Bob is an upstanding member of society including on social networks without requiring Bob to divulge his credentials to the prospective employer or otherwise compromise his privacy. For example suppose Bob clicks a Share link e.g. link in the interface shown in . In response platform can ask Bob a series of questions such as who he would like to share the information with at what level of detail and in what manner. As one example Bob could ask platform to mail score to Charlie. As another example Bob could obtain from platform a temporary link to give to Charlie that will allow Charlie to view Bob s score for a limited period of time e.g. one viewing one day or one week . As yet another example Bob could request platform to generate a report e.g. as a PDF and mail it to Charlie.

Although the foregoing embodiments have been described in some detail for purposes of clarity of understanding the invention is not limited to the details provided. There are many alternative ways of implementing the invention. The disclosed embodiments are illustrative and not restrictive.

