---

title: Systems and methods for group bandwidth management in a communication systems network
abstract: An embodiment is a method of managing bandwidth, performed by a computing system. The system receives user-selected connection parameters associated with a subscriber device. The system associates a network identifier of the subscriber device with a group bandwidth policy, based on the user-selected connection parameters. The system stores, in computer-readable storage media, parameters associated with the group bandwidth policy, in association with the network identifier of the subscriber device. The system receives, at a gateway device, network communication data from the subscriber device. The system limits, at the gateway device, bandwidth available to the network communication data, based on the stored parameters associated with the group bandwidth policy.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09118578&OS=09118578&RS=09118578
owner: NOMADIX, INC.
number: 09118578
owner_city: Agoura Hills
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120117
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Prov. Pat. App. No. 61 433 908 filed Jan. 18 2011. This application is related to but does not claim priority to U.S. Pats. Nos. 6 636 894 7 194 554 7 689 716 7 698 432 and 7 739 383. All of the aforementioned patents and applications are hereby incorporated by reference as if set forth herein in their entireties.

The field of communication systems network management is widely practiced. In today s global mobile world network access is practically a requirement for daily life. As the number of people seeking access to networks continues to increase the demand for reliable mechanisms for network owners to efficiently and effectively manage their resources increases as well.

There is a need for a network operator to limit total bandwidth on a per subscriber basis when the subscriber has multiple physical devices. For example consider a network communication system operated in a hotel. The modern business traveler staying in the hotel may use a laptop a tablet computer and a smartphone. Each of these devices is configurably operable to access a network. This business traveler can access the hotel network with each device but may be required to purchase access for each individual device. Alternatively the network operator can allow all the devices onto the network using a single subscription but the operator has no control over the aggregate bandwidth consumed by the single subscriber. In other words the present art does not provide a way for the hotel network communication system operator to limit the bandwidth to the group of devices for a particular subscriber which in this example is the business traveler.

The present disclosure provides a solution to the above problem by allowing a network management system to allocate a section of bandwidth that can be shared among multiple devices. For example the above described traveler can purchase a single network subscription which will allocate a certain amount of bandwidth to that subscriber. The traveler can then choose to use all of the bandwidth for his laptop or the traveler can add his other network enabled devices to his subscription and share his allocated bandwidth. The network will then manage all of his devices such that the combined bandwidth used at any given time by all of the included devices does not exceed the traveler s bandwidth maximum. Allocation of bandwidth between devices can be performed dynamically by the network administration or the network user e.g. the traveler can choose to allocate the allotted bandwidth between the devices on his subscription. In an embodiment a user can associate a number of devices with an account such that the next time the user purchases a subscription all of his devices will be recognized and he does not have to authorize each device again.

The present disclosure also describes a way for a network operator to limit total bandwidth allotted to an event e.g. conference baseball game serving multiple subscribers e.g. conference attendees season ticket holders . For example consider a network communication system operated at a convention center. Conference organizers may desire to provide network access to attendees. As with the hotel network operator the convention center network operator can allocate bandwidth for each attendee. This solution is generally cumbersome and usually involves assigning each attendee the same bandwidth rather than aggregating the bandwidth allocated for the event to a group of subscribers. The present disclosure provides a system for allowing the conference organizers to group attendees together and allocate blocks of bandwidth between attendees. For example general attendees may be allocated to a block of bandwidth that is pooled and shared while conference presenters or VIPs are allocated to a second block of bandwidth that provides generally speaking more bandwidth per user.

One innovative aspect of the subject matter described in this disclosure can be implemented in a method for managing a communication systems network comprising receiving a signal associating the signal with a host identifying a group policy for the host transforming the signal according to the group policy for the host and transmitting the signal according to the group policy for the host.

An embodiment is a method of managing bandwidth performed by a computing system. The system receives user selected connection parameters associated with a subscriber device. The system associates a network identifier of the subscriber device with a group bandwidth policy based on the user selected connection parameters. The system stores in computer readable storage media parameters associated with the group bandwidth policy in association with the network identifier of the subscriber device. The system receives at a gateway device network communication data from the subscriber device. The system limits at the gateway device bandwidth available to the network communication data based on the stored parameters associated with the group bandwidth policy.

In an embodiment the parameters associated with the group bandwidth policy comprise a group bandwidth policy identifier an uplink bandwidth and a downlink bandwidth.

In an embodiment the system associates a second network identifier of a second subscriber device with the group bandwidth policy. The system limits bandwidth available to the subscriber device and the second subscriber device based on the stored parameters associated with the group bandwidth policy.

An embodiment is a network system configured to manage bandwidth of subscribers with multiple subscriber devices connected to the network system. The network system includes a gateway device configured to connect a plurality of subscriber devices to an external network. The gateway device comprises a computer processor and one or more network ports. The network system includes an Authentication Authorization and Accounting AAA server storing data relating to a group bandwidth policy associated with a subset of the subscriber devices. The gateway device is configured upon receiving a communication request from a subscriber device to transmit a request for authentication information to the AAA server. The request comprises a network identifier associated with the subscriber device. The AAA server is configured to determine in response to the request for authentication information that the subscriber device is associated with the group bandwidth policy based at least in part on the network identifier associated with the subscriber device the AAA server further configured to transmit to the gateway device an authentication response comprising the data relating to the group bandwidth policy. The gateway device is further configured to limit the bandwidth available to the subscriber device based upon the data relating to the group bandwidth policy and further based upon the bandwidth being used by other subscriber devices associated with the group bandwidth policy.

In an embodiment the network system also includes a portal page server configured to complete an enrollment procedure with the subscriber device. The AAA server is configured to determine that the subscriber device is associated with the group bandwidth policy based at least in part on data stored by the portal page server in response to the enrollment procedure.

In an embodiment the request for authentication information comprises a RADIUS or Diameter protocol request and the authentication response comprises a RADIUS or Diameter protocol response.

In an embodiment the gateway device is further configured to limit the bandwidth available to the subscriber device by queuing one or more packets received from the subscriber device.

An embodiment is a method of associating a group of network enabled computers with a network access subscription. A system associates a device network identifier for each of a plurality of network devices with a single network access subscription. The system allocates a subset of available bandwidth with the single network access subscription. The system provides network access to the plurality of network devices. The plurality of network devices share the allocated subset of available bandwidth.

In an embodiment the subset of available bandwidth comprises a subset of available uplink bandwidth and a subset of available downlink bandwidth.

In an embodiment the method is performed at a network system comprising a gateway device. The plurality of devices are connected to the network system and wherein the plurality of network devices share the allocated subset of available bandwidth by the gateway device delaying transmission of data packets received from the plurality of network devices.

In an embodiment associating a network device identifier for each of a plurality of network devices with a single network access subscription comprises storing in computer readable storage the network device identifier for each of the plurality of network devices in association with an identifier of the single network access subscription.

An embodiment is a network system which associates a plurality of devices with a single network subscription. The system includes one or more device side interfaces for communicating with a plurality of user devices. The system includes one or more network side interfaces for communicating with a wide area network. The system includes one or more processors configured to associate at least two of the plurality of user devices with a single network subscription. The network subscription provides a subset of available bandwidth to be shared by the at least two of the plurality of user devices.

In an embodiment the system also includes a portal page server configured to receive enrollment data from at least one of the plurality of user devices. The portal page server is configured to cause the one or more processors to associate the at least one of the plurality of user devices with the single network subscription based on the received enrollment data.

In an embodiment the one or more processors are further configured to limit the bandwidth of data transmitted or received at the one or more device side interfaces from the at least two of the plurality of user devices based at least in part on an indication of a user selected bandwidth level associated with the single network subscription.

In an embodiment the one or more processors are further configured to dissociate a user device from the single network subscription in response to a determination that the user device has disconnected.

Details of embodiments of the subject matter described in this specification are set forth herein. Other features aspects and advantages will become apparent from the description the drawings and the claims.

In an embodiment an enrollment is an instance of purchased service. Examples of enrollment include 1 an individual subscriber purchasing network access for a chosen duration of time and 2 purchasing of network access for an event e.g. conference baseball game shared by a group of subscribers.

In an embodiment a session is an authorization for a single subscriber device to access the network. For example an enrollment may 1 authorize ability to create multiple sessions for an individual subscriber or 2 authorize a group of subscribers to authenticate using the same credentials.

In an embodiment the devices of the system are connected via a local area network LAN that is connected to an external network such as the Internet via a gateway device . In other embodiments one or more components of the system may be external to the local area network. For example portal page server and or AAA server may be connected externally via the Internet. Furthermore in various embodiments the components of the system may operate on a different type of network such as a wide area network a virtual private network a corporate intranet or the like.

Gateway device provides various network services to subscriber device such as for example connectivity to external networks . In various embodiments the gateway device may comprise a single device or multiple devices. Some of the services that may be provided by gateway device are described in U.S. Pat. No. 7 194 554 which is hereby incorporated by reference. Any subset of those services or any other services may be provided in an embodiment. In the embodiment of the gateway device is located between subscriber devices and external networks . In other embodiments the gateway device may be arranged in a different network topology and may not be located between subscriber devices and external networks . For example an intermediary network device may be used to connect subscriber devices and external networks and that intermediary network device may communicate some or all network communications to gateway device . Thus the gateway device is not necessarily limited to being a gateway as understood in the art of computer networks and it is not necessarily limited to being a single device. In some embodiments the gateway functionality described herein and can shared by a distributed group of devices or network system.

In an embodiment gateway device is configured to limit the bandwidth available to subscriber device in accordance with one or more group bandwidth policies. A group bandwidth policy enables a subscriber to purchase or otherwise obtain a user selected bandwidth or quality of service for multiple subscriber devices. For example a subscriber having one or more network devices such as laptops mobile phones tablet computers and the like may purchase a certain amount of bandwidth to be allocated for all of the subscriber s devices in total. Gateway device may employ packet delaying queuing and or dropping strategies in order to limit bandwidth as described in detail in U.S. Pat. No. 7 739 383 which is hereby incorporated by reference.

In an embodiment bandwidth limitations resulting from group bandwidth policies or other bandwidth policies are based on user selections which may be unrelated to the total bandwidth available. For example the gateway device may be able to communicate at a speed of 10 Mbps with networks and subscriber devices . If no bandwidth limitations were present then subscriber devices would be able to communicate with networks at the full speed of 10 Mbps. However if a subscriber device is associated with a group bandwidth policy that is limited to a speed of 2 Mbps then that subscriber device may be limited to 2 Mbps even if further bandwidth is available.

In an embodiment if two or more devices are associated with a group bandwidth policy limited to 2 Mbps then the total bandwidth available to those two devices would be 2 Mbps even if further bandwidth is available so if one device is using 1.5 Mbps of bandwidth the other would be limited to a maximum of 0.5 Mbps. In an embodiment the bandwidth available to subscriber devices associated with a group bandwidth policy may be further limited due to system capacity and constraints. For example if there are ten subscriber devices each associated with a separate bandwidth policy of 2 Mbps and the network is limited to 10 Mbps total then the gateway device or other network system component may determine to allocate 1 Mbps to each subscriber device or assign some other allocation in accordance with network usage quality of service parameters service levels purchased by users or the like.

While the present disclosure presents implementations including group bandwidth policies for managing the minimum and maximum upstream bandwidth for a group it will be appreciated that a group bandwidth policy is not limited to these features. It is envisioned that a group bandwidth policy may include other quality of service related parameters such as fairness weights priority differentiated services code point etc.

In an embodiment gateway device obtains information about a group bandwidth policy to be associated with a subscriber device during an authentication process. Each subscriber device connected to gateway device may be associated with a group bandwidth policy. Alternately a subscriber device may be associated with an individual bandwidth policy or some other policy or even no policy at all. The appropriate bandwidth policy information may be obtained by gateway device from AAA server . The gateway device may further store information relating to group bandwidth policies in data repository . Other bandwidth information as well as other subscriber information may be stored in repository which may be internal or external to the gateway device.

AAA server provides authentication and subscriber information data to other components of the system such as gateway device . AAA server may communicate with these components via any number of standard and or proprietary network protocols. In various embodiments AAA server communicates with gateway device using the Remote Authentication Dial In User Service RADIUS protocol the Diameter protocol an XML protocol and or the like. Thus gateway device may transmit requests for authentication information relating to a subscriber device to AAA server . In response AAA server may provide subscriber information including group bandwidth policy information to gateway device .

The group bandwidth policy information provided by AAA server may be derived from a data source such as enrollments data repository . This data repository may contain information about subscriber enrollments. For example in an embodiment a subscriber may purchase a certain level of bandwidth or service for multiple computing devices used by that subscriber. The information about the service package purchased by the subscriber may be stored in enrollments repository . Thus the subscriber s purchase information may be obtained by AAA server and used to determine an appropriate group bandwidth policy for a subscriber device associated with a particular subscriber.

In an embodiment data repositories and or may be maintained in memory or other non transitory computer readable media such as a storage drive. The data may be formatted for instance in a relational database or a data file e.g. XML . In an embodiment data repositories and or may feature an indexed collection of group bandwidth policies. All subscribers sharing the same group bandwidth policy identifier belong to the same group.

In an embodiment the system enables a subscriber device to be associated with one or more bandwidth limiting groups such as multiple group bandwidth policies a group bandwidth policy and an individual bandwidth policy and the like. Conflicts between multiple groups may be configurably resolved. For example the system may be configured to use the lowest bandwidth setting from among multiple groups associated with a subscriber device it may be configured to prefer group bandwidth policies over individual bandwidth policies or vice versa it may be configured to prompt the user to select a policy or the like.

Portal page server may provide authentication and or enrollment services to subscribers. For example a subscriber wishing to purchase or otherwise obtain network access may communicate information to portal page server such as authentication information payment information hotel room information or the like. Portal page server may use this information to determine an appropriate level of service such as a bandwidth level for the subscriber and store information relating to that level of service in enrollments repository .

In an embodiment a subscriber device accesses portal page server in response to a redirection procedure that occurs when subscriber device attempts to connect to an external network or network location. One such process of redirection is described in detail in U.S. Pat. No. 7 194 554 which is hereby incorporated by reference.

The components of the system such as gateway device AAA server and or portal page server may be configured to provide a management interface so that administrators of the system may determine information about the system s usage. For example gateway device may present a management interface to authorize system administrators. The management interface may provide information such as for example group bandwidth policies installed in repository information about subscriber devices that are connected information about enrollments stored in repository and the like. Management interface may present data in a variety of formats such as an HTML interface an XML data feed and the like.

At block a subscriber device authenticates with portal page server . The authentication information may include identity information and or billing and payment information and it may identify a user selected level of service. This level of service may be for example on individual bandwidth policy or a group bandwidth policy. The selected policy may include a selection of a maximum uplink bandwidth and or a maximum downlink bandwidth. Thus the bandwidth for data transmitted by the subscriber and data received by the subscriber may be limited differently. The user may select the particular bandwidth speeds in an embodiment or the user may select from a list of predefined bandwidth options.

At block the portal page server identifies group bandwidth policy parameters. These parameters are determined based on the authentication information or other information provided by the subscriber device at block . The authentication information from block may indicate that a new group bandwidth policy is to be created in conjunction with a new enrollment. In such a case portal page server may store new enrollment information in data repository or otherwise communicate such policy information to AAA server .

In an embodiment a subscriber selects a group bandwidth policy by providing group identification information e.g. credentials group name group identifier group password to the system. In an embodiment the MAC address of the subscriber s device is associated with the group bandwidth policy in advance of network access thereby allowing the device to easily access the network as part of the group bandwidth policy.

In an embodiment the authentication information from block may indicate that the subscriber device is to be associated with an existing group bandwidth policy. In such a case at block the appropriate policy is identified and information identifying the subscriber device is associated with that policy. Thus in an embodiment AAA server has access to information relating to group bandwidth policies and information relating to associations between subscriber devices and group bandwidth policies. The association with a subscriber device may be based on a MAC address IP address circuit ID mobile phone identifier or the like.

At block the group bandwidth policy parameters from block are sent to gateway device . In various embodiments the parameters may be sent immediately after they are determined at block or they may be sent in response to a request by the gateway device. The latter embodiment may be used for example where the gateway device and AAA server communicate via a RADIUS or Diameter protocol.

At block gateway device stores the group bandwidth policy parameters for example in data repository . In an embodiment the gateway device first determines whether the group bandwidth policy is already stored in repository . This may be the case for example where a subscriber is connecting a second device to the network and the appropriate group bandwidth policy is already stored in repository due to the subscriber s first device. In such a case the gateway device may in an embodiment update the group bandwidth policy information stored in repository if it detects that there have been any changes. Furthermore gateway device may be configured to remove group bandwidth policy information from repository when gateway device determines that such information is no longer necessary for example when all subscriber devices associated with a particular group bandwidth policy have disconnected from the network.

Updating a group bandwidth policy may be necessary for example if during system operation a group policy changes e.g. revision to maximum bandwidth . An example of an event causing the change is the subscriber purchases additional bandwidth for the group. The network operator changing the allocated bandwidth for the group manually or dynamically according to configurable parameters is also an event in an example implementation that would cause the group policy to change. In an embodiment when the group policy changes the change is communicated to all sessions for the group for example via AAA server or gateway device .

At block gateway device proceeds to limit the bandwidth available to subscriber device in accordance with the group bandwidth policy parameters received at block and stored at block . The gateway device may use any of a variety of algorithms to perform this bandwidth limitation such as queuing delaying and or dropping packets. Where multiple subscriber devices are associated with a single group bandwidth policy gateway device may apply various strategies for allocating the available bandwidth among those devices in various embodiments. For example the gateway device may employ a best effort strategy in which it treats all data to and from the devices associated with a particular policy as if that data were being transmitted to and from a single device and limits the bandwidth accordingly. In other embodiments the subscriber may be given the option of allocating the available bandwidth among the subscriber s devices. For example the subscriber may choose to allocate the bandwidth evenly among the subscriber s devices or to allocate more bandwidth to one device and less bandwidth to other devices. In a further embodiment gateway device may determine the likely or probable bandwidth usage of various subscriber devices and allocate bandwidth accordingly. For example gateway device may determine that a laptop is likely to require more bandwidth than a mobile phone and accordingly allocate more bandwidth to the laptop than to the mobile phone.

At block portal page server receives a request for a new session transmitted by subscriber device . This request for a new session may be transmitted by the subscriber device in response to a redirection procedure performed when subscriber device attempts to connect to an external network location. The request may further include information transmitted from subscriber device to portal page server via one or more web pages or other network communications subsequent to the redirection procedure. Alternately the request may be received when the subscriber device directly contacts the portal page server. The request may be transmitted via HTTP or other network protocols in various embodiments.

At block the portal page server determines whether to create a new enrollment based on the request from block . For example the request may identify on existing enrollments with which the subscriber device wishes to be associated. Alternatively the request may include information for creating a new enrollment if the subscriber has not yet connected any other devices to the network.

If at block the portal page server determines that a new enrollment is to be created then at block the portal page server determines group bandwidth parameters to be associated with the enrollment. The parameters may be determined based on a selection of a group bandwidth policy at block . In an embodiment the subscriber may opt for a policy different from a group bandwidth policy such as an individual bandwidth policy or no policy at all. In such a case the portal page server would take appropriate actions based on the subscriber s selection.

At block the portal page server constructs a new group bandwidth policy in accordance with the parameters determined at block . This new group bandwidth policy may be stored for example in enrollments data repository . The portal page server then goes on to associate a new session involving the subscriber device with the newly created policy at block .

If at block the portal page server determines not to create a new enrollment then at block the portal page server determines an appropriate group bandwidth policy to be associated with the subscriber device. The portal page server may determine that no group bandwidth policy is to be associated with the subscriber device for example when the subscriber has selected an individual bandwidth policy or no bandwidth policy at all. In such cases the portal page server acts accordingly. If however an appropriate group bandwidth policy is determined at block then the portal page server proceeds to block and associates the determined group bandwidth policy from block with the subscriber device in a new session.

At block the portal page server communicates the group bandwidth policy to gateway device . This may be done directly or in response to a request from the gateway device. Accordingly the gateway device will have information relating to the group bandwidth policy and it will be able to limit the subscriber device s bandwidth accordingly.

Although the process of has been described with respect to a portal page server it may be performed by a combination of devices. For example the AAA server may perform one or more of the blocks of . In one embodiment the AAA server performs blocks and . In one embodiment the AAA server performs blocks and .

Enrollments may be created via a process such as that described in or by other means. For example an administrator of the network system may create an enrollment with an associated group bandwidth policy and store it directly in the system. This may be useful for example where the group bandwidth policy is to be applied to a large meeting such as a conference or convention in which case it is desirable to have the group bandwidth policy installed and activated prior to the meeting.

At block gateway device receives data from subscriber device . In an embodiment the data may relate to a request directed to an internal or external network location. The data may be directed to the gateway device or it may be directed to another network component which is configured to forward such data to the gateway device.

At block the gateway device determines whether the subscriber device requires authentication. It may make this determination for example based on whether there is a group bandwidth policy or other bandwidth policy associated with the subscriber device stored in data repository or if it was previously authenticated. If gateway device determines that no authentication is required then the data received at block is transmitted at block in accordance with any group bandwidth or other policy associated with subscriber device . The association between the subscriber device and the group bandwidth policy may be determined for example based on an association between the two stored in the gateway device.

If gateway device determines that the subscriber does require authentication at block then at block the gateway device sends a request to the AAA server . In an embodiment the request is in the form of a RADIUS or Diameter protocol request. The request may include information identifying the subscriber device such as a MAC address IP address circuit ID mobile phone identifier or the like.

At block gateway device receives a response from AAA server which includes a group bandwidth policy. In an embodiment the received policy includes a policy identifier a maximum uplink bandwidth and a maximum downlink bandwidth. Any subset of this information and or other information may be included in the group bandwidth policy received from the AAA server. The gateway device may alternately receive other information at block such as individual bandwidth policy information no bandwidth policy information or an indication that the subscriber device has not authenticated. In the last of those cases the gateway device may be configured in an embodiment to redirect the subscriber device to portal page server so that the subscriber device may complete an authentication process.

At block the gateway device determines whether the group bandwidth policy received at block is already installed for example in data repository . The gateway device may make this determination based on a group bandwidth policy identifier received at block and or other forms of referencing the group bandwidth policy such as a pointer to a memory location. If the gateway device determines that the group bandwidth policy is already installed then at block the gateway device updates the group bandwidth policy if necessary. Otherwise at block the gateway device installs the group bandwidth policy in data repository . Finally at block the gateway device transmits the received data in accordance with the appropriate group bandwidth or other policy.

At block the gateway device receives data from subscriber device . Based on the data received and information identifying the subscriber device in that data the gateway device determines a group bandwidth policy for the device at block .

At block the gateway device determines a maximum bandwidth based on the group bandwidth policy for the device. In an embodiment the maximum bandwidth is a maximum uplink bandwidth associated with the group bandwidth policy.

The gateway device determines whether the maximum bandwidth has been exceeded at block . If it has been exceeded then at block the gateway device restricts bandwidth by queuing delaying policing and or dropping data transmissions or by other means. However if the maximum bandwidth has not been exceeded then at block the gateway device transmits the received data.

At block the gateway device receives data from an external network. The gateway device determines a subscriber device to which the received data is directed and then at block the gateway device determines a group bandwidth policy for that device.

The gateway device then determines at block a maximum bandwidth based on the group bandwidth policy. In an embodiment the maximum bandwidth is a maximum downlink bandwidth. If at block the gateway device determines that the maximum bandwidth has been exceeded then at block the bandwidth is limited by queuing or delaying the data transmission. However if the maximum bandwidth has not been exceeded then at block the data received at block is transmitted to the appropriate subscriber device.

At block the gateway device determines that a subscriber device has logged out of the network system. The gateway device may make this determination based on an explicit logout command transmitted by subscriber device a session timeout an idle timeout a deletion of a subscriber by a system administrator and the like.

At block the gateway device determines a group bandwidth policy associated with the subscriber device of block . If there is no group bandwidth policy associated with the device then the gateway device acts accordingly. However if a group bandwidth policy is identified then the gateway device proceeds at block to determine whether there are other subscriber devices associated with the same group bandwidth policy. It may make this determination for example for querying data repository for subscriber devices associated with the same group bandwidth policy.

If at block the gateway device determines that there are other devices associated with the group bandwidth policy then the process terminates at block . However if the gateway device determines that no other subscriber devices are associated with the group bandwidth policy then at block the gateway device proceeds to remove the group bandwidth policy information. For example the information may be removed from data repository .

The process shown in thus allows gateway device or other devices of the system to manage records of group bandwidth policies that have been stored. Other methods may be employed such as for example periodically scanning through data repository and removing group bandwidth policy information that is not associated with any connected subscriber.

The user interface enables a user to join an existing group using input elements . The user may provide identifying information associated with a group bandwidth policy such as a group name and or password. In various embodiments different types of identifying information may be employed.

A user may also create a new group using interface elements . In an embodiment the user may provide information such as a group name password and selection of a bandwidth level. In various embodiments different types of identifying information may be employed such as an access code a room number a predefined key provided by a system administrator or other entity a group secret code or the like. In an embodiment the user may further provide payment information using interface elements . In various embodiments additional information and or any subset of this information may be requested. In various embodiments only elements or may be included. The user may then submit the contents of the form shown in to portal page server or another appropriate server to thereby create a new session and or enrollment.

In an embodiment network system includes a wide area network WAN interface one or more processors and local area network LAN interface . The WAN interface may be connected to one or more external networks such as the Internet. The LAN interface may be connected to one or more subscriber devices possibly via one or more intermediary network devices such as hubs routers and or switches. The LAN may be a network of any type such as an Ethernet network a token ring network a dial up network or the like or any combination of networks. The WAN may similarly be a network of any type or combination. In an embodiment subscriber devices are able to communicate with the external networks through the network system .

The network system may be configured to manage bandwidth available to subscriber devices . In an embodiment network system is in communication with data repository which may be internal to or external to the network system. The network system may be configured to associate one or more subscriber devices with a subscription. For example as shown in subscriber devices 1 and 2 are associated with subscription A and devices 3 and 4 are associated with subscription B. Within data repository subscriptions may be identified by a subscription identifier such as a unique integer and subscriber devices may be identified by a device identifier such as a MAC address or other identifier.

Processors or other processors or systems may be configured to create modify and or remove associations between subscriptions and subscriber devices in data repository . The processors may additionally or alternatively be configured to manage network communications to and from the subscriber devices based on bandwidth information associated with subscriptions in data repository .

At block multiple computing devices are associated with a single network access subscription. A network access subscription may be an enrollment a group bandwidth policy or the like. The association may be stored within computer readable storage media for later retrieval.

At block a subset of available bandwidth is allocated to the network access subscription. The allocated bandwidth may be determined based on parameters associated with the network access subscription stored or encoded data in the network system currently available bandwidth quality of service indicators or the like.

At block network access is provided to the multiple computing devices. The bandwidth available to those computing devices may then be limited at block . The limitation may be based on the subset of available bandwidth determined at block . The allocated bandwidth may be shared among the computing devices based on a best effort allocation a user defined allocation a system computed allocation or other allocation scheme. Bandwidth may be limited by queuing delaying and or dropping network communication packets or by other means described herein.

The network may include any communication network or combination of communication networks such as one or more of the Internet LANs WANs MANs etc. for example. In the embodiment of the computing device includes a computing system having one or more computing devices e.g. computers . The computing device may include for example a single computing device a computer server a smart storage unit or a combination of one or more computing devices and or computer servers. Depending on the embodiment the components illustrated in the computing device may be distributed amongst multiple devices such as via a local area or other network connection. In other embodiments the computing device may include fewer and or additional components that are illustrated in .

The example computing device may be a general purpose computer using one or more microprocessors such as for example an Intel Pentium processor an Intel Pentium II processor an Intel Pentium Pro processor an Intel Pentium IV processor an Intel Pentium D processor an Intel Core processor an xx86 processor an 8051 processor a MIPS processor a Power PC processor a SPARC processor an Alpha processor and so forth. The computer may run a variety of operating systems that perform standard operating system functions such as for example opening reading writing and closing a file. It is recognized that other operating systems may be used such as for example WindRiver VxWorks Microsoft Windows 3.X Microsoft Windows 98 Microsoft Windows 2000 Microsoft Windows NT Microsoft Windows CE Microsoft Windows ME Microsoft Windows XP Windows 7 Palm Pilot OS Apple MacOS Disk Operating System DOS UNIX IRIX Solaris SunOS FreeBSD Linux or IBM OS 2 operating systems. In other embodiments the computing device may be controlled by a proprietary operating system. Conventional operating systems control and schedule computer processes for execution perform memory management provide file system networking I O services and provide a user interface such as a graphical user interface GUI among other things.

The computing device includes one or more central processing units CPU which may each include one or more conventional or proprietary microprocessor s . The computing device may further include one or more memories such as random access memory RAM for temporary storage of information read only memory ROM for permanent storage of information and or a mass storage device such as a hard drive diskette or optical media storage device. The memory may store software code or instructions for execution by the processor in order to cause the computing device to perform certain operations such as gathering sensor related data processing the data with statistical and or predictive models formatting data for user devices or other presentation transmitting data or other operations described or used herein.

The methods described and claimed herein may be performed by any suitable computing device such as the computing device . The methods may be executed on such suitable computing devices in response to execution of software instructions or other executable code read from a non transitory tangible computer readable medium or computer storage device. A computer readable medium is a data storage device that can store data that is readable by a computer system. Examples of computer readable mediums include read only memory random access memory other volatile or non volatile memory devices CD ROMs magnetic tape flash drives and optical data storage devices.

The example computing device may include one or more input output I O devices and interfaces such as a keyboard trackball mouse drawing tablet joystick game controller touchscreen e.g. capacitive or resistive touchscreen touchpad accelerometer and or printer for example. The computing device may also include one or more multimedia devices such as a display device also referred to herein as a display screen which may also be one of the I O devices in the case of a touchscreen for example. Display devices may include LCD OLED or other thin screen display surfaces a monitor television projector or any other device that visually depicts user interfaces and data to viewers. The computing device may also include one or more multimedia devices such as speakers video cards graphics accelerators and microphones for example.

In the embodiment of the I O devices and interfaces provides a communication interface to various external devices via the network . For example the computing device may be electronically coupled to the network via a wired wireless or combination of wired and wireless communication link s . The network may allow communication with various other computing devices and or other electronic devices via wired or wireless communication links.

In the embodiment of the computing device may include various modules described in further detail below. Each of these modules is discussed in further detail below. In general the word module as used herein refers to logic embodied in hardware or firmware or to a collection of software instructions possibly having entry and exit points written in any programming language such as for example Java Python Perl Lua C C C Objective C etc. A software module may be compiled and linked into an executable program installed in a dynamic link library or may be written in an interpreted programming language such as for example BASIC Perl or Python. Software modules may be callable from other modules or from themselves and or may be invoked in response to detected events or interrupts. Software modules configured for execution on computing devices may be provided on a computer readable medium such as a compact disc digital video disc flash drive or any other tangible medium. Such software code may be stored partially or fully on a memory device of the executing computing device such as the computing device for execution by the computing device. Hardware modules may be comprised of connected logic units such as gates and flip flops and or may be comprised of programmable units such as programmable gate arrays or processors. The modules described herein are typically implemented as software modules but may be implemented in hardware firmware and or software. Generally the modules described herein refer to logical modules that may be combined with other modules or divided into sub modules despite their physical organization or storage.

In the embodiment of the computing device includes three modules namely a bandwidth management module that controls uplink and or downlink bandwidth for connected subscriber devices a group bandwidth policy module that manages group bandwidth policies for connected subscriber devices and an authentication module that provides for authentication of subscriber devices. In some embodiments the modules may be distributed across multiple devices and may be controlled and or operated by multiple different entities. For example the modules may be divided among the gateway device the AAA server and the portal page server of or combined together within one or more devices. As another example the modules may all be part of network system or a subset of the modules may be part of network system . These modules are configured to perform methods as described throughout this specification. In various embodiments fewer or additional modules may be included within a computing system.

The computing device may be configured to acquire user data and other external data such as third party data. The various modules and or other modules may comprise software alone hardware alone or a combination of software and hardware. The device may be especially adapted to communicate using a variety of network or communications protocols in order to communicate with external data sources such as data repositories network servers online services telecommunication services distributed computing systems and so on. Some of these protocols may include standard network protocols such as HTTP FTP SNMP or the like. The device may further include hardware drivers such as USB FireWire Thunderbolt Light Peak or serial communications drivers for example to communicate with devices in direct communication with the system.

The computing device may be configured to transmit or initiate transmission of data such as user interfaces data reports application programming interface data or the like to requesting entities such as external user that have registered interest with the system. In one embodiment the device provides the data in an unformatted data structure such as in an XML CSV TXT or other spreadsheet text or web accessible data structure. In other embodiments the device provides information in user interfaces such as user interfaces that are configured for rendering by a web browser mobile device tablet device or other device or application for display to users. A variety of different presentations may be provided. In some embodiments the requesting entities may indicate presentation preferences or configurations e.g. data formats and or types of information and the device may transmit data based on the indicated preferences or configurations. The presentation format may also be determined based on the type of device being used by the user.

In an embodiment any or all of the modules described above and or other modules are configured to act in real time. Thus when data is received by the modules the modules process that data as soon as practicable or necessary to provide users with timely information. In order to achieve this specialized hardware may be used to gain efficiency and executable code may be designed to minimize latency or computation time. In an embodiment the modules possibly with other modules of the system are executed within a real time operating system to enhance the responsiveness of the system.

Depending on the embodiment the systems and methods described with reference to the flowcharts and block diagrams as well as any other methods discussed herein may include fewer or additional blocks and or the blocks may be performed or arranged in a different order than is illustrated. Software code configured for execution on a computing device in order to perform the methods may be provided on a computer readable medium such as a compact disc digital video disc flash drive hard drive memory device or any other tangible medium. Such software code may be stored partially or fully on a memory of a computing device such as the computing systems of network system of and or other computing devices illustrated in the Figures in order to perform the respective methods. For ease of explanation the methods have been described herein as performed by the various modules such as may be executed on the computing systems and or which should be interpreted to include any one or more of the computing devices noted above and or any other suitable computing device.

Conditional language such as among others can could might or may unless specifically stated otherwise or otherwise understood within the context as used is generally intended to convey that certain embodiments include while other embodiments do not include certain features elements and or steps. Thus such conditional language is not generally intended to imply that features elements and or steps are in any way required for one or more embodiments or that one or more embodiments necessarily include logic for deciding with or without user input or prompting whether these features elements and or steps are included or are to be performed in any particular embodiment.

Any process descriptions elements or blocks in the flow diagrams described herein and or depicted in the attached figures should be understood as potentially representing modules segments or portions of code which include one or more executable instructions for implementing specific logical functions or steps in the process. Alternate implementations are included within the scope of the embodiments described herein in which elements or functions may be deleted executed out of order from that shown or discussed including substantially concurrently or in reverse order depending on the functionality involved as would be understood by those skilled in the art.

All of the methods and processes described above may be embodied in and partially or fully automated via software code modules executed by one or more general purpose computers. For example the methods described herein may be performed by the computing devices described herein and or any other suitable computing device. The methods may be executed on the computing devices in response to execution of software instructions or other executable code read from a tangible computer readable medium. A tangible computer readable medium is a data storage device that can store data that is readable by a computer system. Examples of computer readable mediums include read only memory random access memory other volatile or non volatile memory devices CD ROMs magnetic tape flash drives and optical data storage devices.

It should be emphasized that many variations and modifications may be made to the above described embodiments the elements of which are to be understood as being among other acceptable examples. All such modifications and variations are intended to be included herein within the scope of this disclosure. The foregoing description details certain embodiments of the invention. It will be appreciated however that no matter how detailed the foregoing appears in text the invention can be practiced in many ways. As is also stated above it should be noted that the use of particular terminology when describing certain features or aspects of the invention should not be taken to imply that the terminology is being re defined herein to be restricted to including any specific characteristics of the features or aspects of the invention with which that terminology is associated. The scope of the invention should therefore be construed in accordance with the appended claims and any equivalents thereof.

