---

title: System and method for mapping and comparing choroplethic housing statistics
abstract: The present invention relates to a mapping and comparing choroplethic housing statistics. In one example, this comprises accessing property data corresponding to a geospatial area. Analytics are used to generate usable property data statistics from the accessed property data. A thematic map image based on the usable property data statistics is then generated according to comparison categories, so that the thematic map image may be displayed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09311726&OS=09311726&RS=09311726
owner: Fannie Mae
number: 09311726
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120830
---
This application relates generally to comparing statistical data on the housing market with geospatial mapping.

Housing market information purchased from housing market entities such as Mortgage Brokers Association and First American CoreLogic is used to analyze housing market trends. Further maps specially designed to show particular housing market trends connected with specific geographic areas may sometimes be created and viewed individually to analyze housing market trends. However because housing market information itself does not present coherent and readily attainable statistics without further manipulation and because such maps are subject to geographic and comparison limitations a comprehensive multiple thematic map approach is needed to interpret statistical housing data concerning geographic areas.

The present invention relates to a mapping and comparing choroplethic housing statistics. In one example this comprises accessing property data corresponding to a geospatial area. Analytics may be used to generate usable property data statistics from the accessed property data. A thematic map image based on the usable property data statistics is then generated according to comparison categories so that the thematic map image may be displayed.

The described invention may be embodied in various fauns including business processes computer implemented methods computer program products computer systems and networks user interfaces application programming interfaces and the like.

In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous details are set forth such as flowcharts and system configurations to provide an understanding of one or more embodiments. However it is and will be apparent to one skilled in the art that these specific details are not required to practice the described invention.

Financial and housing market information itself does not present coherent and readily attainable statistics without further manipulation. The present invention relates to fitting housing market data derivations from housing market data and other statistics relevant to the housing market to defined geospatial areas. Specifically this invention allows users to create maps and tables using any available data to clearly illustrate unique geographic patterns that would not otherwise be visible using the financial and housing market data alone.

Further users may be able to simultaneously produce on a single display screen at different levels of aggregation thematic maps which is a type of map or chart designed to show a particular theme connected with a specific geographic area and choroplethic maps which is a type of thematic map in which areas may be shaded or patterned in proportion to the measurement of the statistical variable being displayed on the map.

Furthermore users may be able to combine geospatial mapping with financial and housing market statistical data to produce corresponding tables Financial and housing market data may also be added to the tables in accordance with aggregation levels e.g. geographic aggregation levels such as region state metropolitan statistical area MSA county zip code and census tract . The table data may further be selected and displayable using color coded rankings in accordance with thematic and choroplethic maps. The rankings displayed may be based on the user selected number of ranks e.g. five or ten and designated regions e.g. national region or within a parent geographic region . Thus users may be able to compare an multiple maps at the same time while viewing multiple financial indicators and tables in support of housing market decision making.

In one embodiment the present invention provides a method for mapping and comparing choroplethic housing statistics includes accessing database information containing property data such as demographic economic and lending information used in the housing market e.g. financial and housing market data . The database information generally corresponds to geospatial areas however when information necessary for mapping and comparing choroplethic housing statistics does not possess this correspondence the method may interpolate such correspondence. In addition the geospatial areas which relate to specific geographic regions or statistical regions is alterable at anytime during user operation.

After accessing the database information analytics that ensure usability of the property data may be performed on the property data. Whether before during or after the property data is cleaned the method may also perform analytics on the property data to derive statistics that may not be directly reported by the property data regions. For example derived statistics may be summary statistics such as calculating an average home price for a given region. Although different calculations may be employed it is preferred that a mean or median is used for given values in each region.

Next the available data i.e. the usable property data is used to generate and display thematic maps. Preferably the available data is used to generate a thematic map based on dispersing within the aggregation levels the data according to a selected comparison category across the geospatial area. The thematic maps may also be generated by combining previously generated maps to derive new thematic maps that display data not shown by the previously generated maps. In addition to the thematic maps choroplethic maps may also be generated in accordance with at least one of a set of comparison categories e.g. Roll Rates SDQs and Delinquent Loans . The comparison categories will use color codes to display patterned areas in proportion to the statistics. The method also supports display of multiple maps with unique filters for each map and a new map may be generated whenever the filters are changed. The displaying of multiple maps may be in any orientation such as side by side or over under. Yet it is preferred that a side by side orientation is a default implementation where each map has an equivalent size and it is also preferred that when a new map is created the existing maps resize to accommodate the addition of the new map for simultaneous comparison.

Furthermore the method will generate tables that combine the geospatial area and the property data statistics and that correspond to the thematic maps. Thus all calculations that have already been performed for the thematic maps will be part of respective tables. In addition after a table is generated additional property data may be added to the table in accordance with the aggregation levels. The integration between the maps and tables will be performed so that in response to clicking on particular locations in a map a table or graph showing a comparison between the mapped statistical values at the selected locale and other selected parent statistics is displayed. Additionally the table or graph will display more locations as additional lines are generated with the numbers of other locations as these locations are clicked.

A preferred way of implementing the above example is to use a mobile application installed on a terminal computer for thematic map and table generation as described above. However a terminal computer is not the only contemplated computer system. Any computer system such as a laptop personal computer or a handheld portable computer i.e. tablets PDAs cell phones mobile phones smart phones super phones etc. may be implemented. Further the functions described herein may be implemented on any conventional computing or electronic device such as personal computer conventional desktop computer a network computer or any of the various execution environments that will be readily apparent to the artisan and need not be named herein.

The computer system runs any conventional operating system through the interaction of the CPU or GPU and the memory to carry out the described functionality by execution of computer instructions. Operating systems may include but are not limited to iOS Android Windows Unix Linux Macintosh or the like. The computer system may further implement applications that facilitate calculations. The memory may be any memory suitable for storing data such as any volatile or non volatile memory whether virtual or permanent or any other non transitory computer readable medium i.e. compact disk hard disk etc. . Preferably the memory stores the choroplethic comparison application which comprises program code that is executable by the processor to perform operations in support of supplying automatic promotions to the user. Therefore the application is preferably provided as software on the computer system described above yet it may alternatively be hardware firmware or any combination of software hardware and firmware. Still other embodiments include computer implemented processes described in connection with through .

The artisan will readily recognize the various alternative programming languages and execution platforms that are and will become available and the described is not limited to any specific execution environment. The mapping and comparing choroplethic housing statistics features will now be described in further detail through the below examples.

The choroplethic comparison application includes program code executable by the terminal computer to perform operations for thematic map and table generation as described above. The choroplethic comparison application gathers data concerning the housing market and inserts the data into a database. Then the choroplethic comparison application performs analytics on the data to ensure usability or to derive statistics that may not be directly reported. Note the uppermost level of the choroplethic comparison application allows new maps to be created provides a function to arrange all current maps allows links showing all current maps to be sent via e mail and creates bookmarks in browsers for any link that is be e mailed.

After the choroplethic comparison application generates a new map the new map window has a menu that allows control over which geographical and statistical regions may be displayed in the map which statistics or derived calculations will be compared in those regions whether five or ten bins color codes or patterns will be used in the map and which month s data should be used. Statistical regions may be any geographic region with the most common being states counties and zip codes and statistical regions may use arbitrary boundaries that take on any shape. Maps may also compare regions by different criteria utilizing color code assignations. Thus although counties in one state may be colored relative to counties nationally by default counties may also be colored relative to counties in their respective state.

Further since the choroplethic comparison application displays graphs based on locations selected within each map graphs of the market data values may be created by clicking on a particular colored region. That is Roll Rate Graph includes line graphs illustrating the Roll Rate over time for selected regions or locations. In United States Map the locations of California Nation the United States as a whole Texas Nevada and Florida were selected and thus their respective line graphs are displayed on Roll Rate Graph . Similarly California Nation Texas Nevada and Florida were selected on United States Map to produce SDQ Graph while California and Nation were selected on United States Map to produce Delinquent Loan Graph . For any one of the graphs and additional regions may be added to the graph by clicking on them after that graph window has been opened.

Accordingly the graphs and maps may be simultaneously produced on a single display screen at different levels of aggregation and users may combine the selectable regions of the maps and selectable trends shown on the graphs with other statistical data to produce corresponding maps graphs and tables to illustrate additional trends and patterns within the geographic areas. Further additional financial and housing market data may then be added to those tables in accordance with aggregation levels such as property data that has been cleaned or ensured as usable. Thus in each display generated by the choroplethic comparison application the maps graphs and tables may be integrated so that they perform further statistical generations which may be displayed thematically in response to clicking on particular locations in the maps tables or graphs. For instance the state of Texas may be clicked on in each map and to generate a graph that depicts the corresponding statistical trends for the state of Texas.

In addition the choroplethic comparison application may examine housing data and summarize any number of statistics for display. Thus although only a few statistics have been identified via the choroplethic comparison application may analyze and summarize data using the hundreds of statistics available to the choroplethic comparison application.

The application A is configured to provide the functionality of accessing property data producing usable data and generating maps and tables through the modules listed below. The example of the application A of includes a property data access module an analytics module a map image module and a property data grid module . Although one modular breakdown of the application A is offered it should be understood that the same functionality may be provided using fewer greater or differently named modules. Additionally the functionality of application A and the modules respective to that functionality may be provided on different devices as individual software applications or a combination of different devices and individual software applications which is further described herein.

The property data access module includes program code for carrying out access to and management of the property data whether from internal or external resources.

The analytics module includes program code for applying analytics that ensure the usability of the property data and to derive statistics that may not be directly reported by the property data regions.

The map image module includes program code for accessing mapping functions for displaying a map image corresponding to the geospatial area and for managing the depiction of the map images and graphs indicative of the subject property data as well as rankings and patterns. Further the map image module may display the property data within the defined geographic area with demarcations of the defined geographic area e.g. highlighted boundaries as the neighborhood of interest. The neighborhood may be defined by inclusion within a user defined shape exclusion of a user defined shape from a previously defined geographic area the set of properties within a given distance from a location properties corresponding to a tract or adjacent tracts or properties currently displayed on a map image which may be manipulated as desired prior to user indication to lock in the defined area .

The property data grid DB module includes program code for managing the data set corresponding to a current session including the usable and derived property data. It is configured as a database that allows the property data for the properties to be displayed in a tabular or grid format with various sorting according to the property characteristics economic distance geographical distance time etc.

In another embodiment is a block diagram illustrating an example of a choroplethic comparison application B that is external to a terminal which accesses the functionality of the choroplethic comparison application B. That is a user device or a terminal computer may act as a terminal where through either web browsing or mobile application technology the application B is configured to run in the context of a server or host functionality. Further the application B at least includes an aggregation module a user interface module and an application programmable interface module . Furthermore the application B may include any of the other modules listed in . It should be understood that the same functionality may be provided using fewer greater or differently named modules and the named these modules may be integrated with any of the other named modules.

In the aggregation module includes program code for combining previously generated maps to derive new thematic maps that display data not shown by the previously generated maps.

The user interface module includes program code for managing the display and receipt of information from a user to provide the described functionality. The user interface module permits user management of the thematic and choroplethic maps corresponding tables and property data. Further the user interface module permits the application A to be displayed in a map menu icon tabular or grid format with various functional representations according to a module s required functionality. That is the user interface is configured to provide mapping and analytical tools that implement the choroplethic comparison application s mapping features to display bins color codes across geospatial areas to show patterns. Thus although counties in one state may be colored relative to counties nationally by default counties may also be colored relative to counties in their state. Further mapping features include the capability to display the boundaries of on different aggregation levels. Additionally a table or grid of data may concurrently be displayable so that the property data and derived data may be viewed and sorted based on any desired dimension. Additionally the rows in the table may be connected to the full database entry as well as the graphs and maps. Thus combined with the map view the user interface module allows for a convenient yet comprehensive interactive analysis of the derived statistics and property data.

The application programmable interface module is configured to communicate directly with other applications modules models devices and other sources through both physical and virtual interfaces. The application programmable interface module manages the dispatching and receipt of information in relation to the above sources and sources external to the application along with integrating the application A with other applications and drivers as needed per operating system. Note each above describe module and its functionality is further described in connection with below.

Additionally as illustrated in market resources are shown as a singular block in the figure but it should be understood that the singular block represents a variety of resources including financial intuition databases MLS listings GIS data or resources compiled by an information services provider i.e. tax assessors other appraising services and the like . Further market resources are typically accessed externally for use by the applications since the amount of property data is rather voluminous and since the application is configured to allow access to multiple housing resource databases. The application accesses and retrieves the market data from these resources in support of illustrating non obvious geographic patterns that would not otherwise be visible using the financial and housing market data alone.

Specifically the choroplethic comparison process begins by accessing the property data corresponding to an identified geospatial area. The geospatial area may be defined by an automatic neighborhood of interest selection or by user designated regions. Next the process performs usability and derivation calculations on the accessed property data to clean and prepare the data for pattern display. Once the property data is ready the process generates and displays thematic maps using patterns based on the derivations and usable property data. Then whether through automatic generation or user indication the process generates and displays interactive tables or graphs corresponding to the thematic maps.

Specifically the choroplethic comparison process begins by accessing financial and housing market data relative to different aggregation levels as defined above. Then usability and derivation calculations are performed on the accessed financial and housing market data. The process then generates thematic maps and corresponding tables based on the derivations and usable data. Next by combining and comparing the thematic maps previously generated the process may generate choroplethic maps detailing patterns based on said combined and compared thematic maps while generating the corresponding tables. Alternatively instead of progressing to the generation of choroplethic maps the process may skip to displaying the generated thematic maps and corresponding tables as in .

Thus embodiments of the described produce and provide methods and apparatus for a model for providing real time location based promotions to a vehicle purchaser without the need for additional post purchase decision conversations and signing ceremonies. Although the described is detailed considerably above with reference to certain embodiments thereof the invention may be variously embodied without departing from the spirit or scope of the invention. Therefore the following claims should not be limited to the description of the embodiments contained herein in any way.

