---

title: Ex vivo and in vivo methods and related compositions for regenerating hematopoietic stem cell populations
abstract: Various embodiments provide methods and related compositions for increasing the population size of hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) in patients that may benefit from reconstitution of stem cells and/or differentiated cells of the blood lineage. The present methods enable the production of HSCs ex vivo and in vivo by reducing latexin expression and/or latexin activity within HSC exposed to various antagonists. Inhibition of latexin expression and/or latexin activity by various antagonists can promote HSC proliferation and/or inhibit HSC apoptosis. Antagonists that can reduce latexin expression and/or latexin activity can be utilized to regenerate endogenous HSCs within patients affected with disorders, diseases, cancers, or therapies for such conditions, that result in the depletion or reduction in HSCs.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09284530&OS=09284530&RS=09284530
owner: University of Kentucky Research Foundation
number: 09284530
owner_city: Lexington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120103
---
This application is a divisional of U.S. application Ser. No. 11 540 641 filed Oct. 2 2006 which is a non provisional application that claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 to U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 722 755 entitled MANIPULATION OF ADULT STEM CELL POPULATION SIZES BY LATEXIN and filed on Sep. 30 2005 the entire content of which are hereby incorporated by reference.

This invention has been made with Government support under grant number ROI AG024950 awarded by the National Institute on Aging. The government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates to methods for regenerating adult hematopoietic stem cells HSCs and related compositions by reducing inhibiting latexin expression and or latexin activity.

The material on the accompanying CD R is hereby incorporated by reference into this application. The accompanying compact disc contains one file 1028750 000249 HSCS.ST25.txt which was created on Oct. 2 2006. The file named 1028750 000249 HSCS.ST25.txt is 5 KB. The file can be accessed using Microsoft Word on a computer that uses Windows OS.

Hematopoiesis is a complex process for producing multiple and distinct lineages of blood borne cells throughout the life span of an organism. Hematopoietic stem cells HSCs represent a subset of undifferentiated cells that resides predominantly in the bone marrow of adult mammals. HSCs as a population are capable of self renewal by maintaining a sufficient number of HSCs within an organism s bone marrow as a reservoir of uncommitted cells that can be further differentiated into various types of new blood cells. Such newly generated blood cells emerge from the bone marrow and enter the circulatory system in order to continuously replace mature aging circulating blood cell types. The ability of HSCs as a population to differentiate and to give rise to cells of multi lineages is critical for the preservation of an organism.

In order for the maintenance of steady state hematopoiesis a balance must be achieved between the rate of self generation i.e. for maintaining a steady supply of HSCs and the rate of differentiation i.e. for replenishing senescent cells . Hematopoiesis occurs as a developmental continuum in that a given population of HSCs is representative of a heterogeneous mixture of cells mainly composed of long term HSCs LT HSCs and short term HSCs ST HSCs . LT HSCs are stem cells that have the capacity for self renewal throughout the life span of an organism. However ST HSCs exhibit transient self renewal properties for a limited period of time e.g. typically less than 8 weeks in a mouse prior to undergoing full differentiation. HSCs can differentiate into hematopoietic progenitor cells HPCs that can further differentiate into clonogenic cells or cells of a single lineage. For example the differentiation of common lymphoid progenitors CLPs can produce T lymphocytes T cells B lymphocytes B cells and natural killer cells NKs . The differentiation of common myeloid progenitors CMPs can generate blood cells of other lineages including erythrocytes macrophages granulocytes and platelets. The maintenance of mature blood borne cells in the peripheral circulation is critical for various processes including oxygen delivery and immunological protection.

Bone marrow transplantation BMT and hematopoietic stem cell transplantation HSCT can be effective for the treatment of diseases of the blood diseases of the bone marrow cancers of the blood and cancers of the bone marrow including various types of anemia leukemia and immunological disorders. For example obtaining HSCs by bone marrow harvesting from donors can be technically challenging in that harvesting sufficient material from the bone marrows of donors involves multiple insertions of large needles to obtain sufficient amount of stem cells. Methods for regenerating HSCs can be useful for treating patients affected by various types of disorders diseases or cancers that deleteriously affect the number of endogenous HSCs within a patient.

An ex vivo method for producing a renewed population of hematopoietic stem cells HSCs is provided in which a first HSC population from a donor is obtained the first HSC population is contacted with an antagonist that reduces latexin expression and or latexin activity and the HSC population is cultured under in vitro conditions that can promote cell proliferation and or inhibit apoptosis to obtain a second HSC population that comprises a progeny of the first HSC population.

A method for reconstituting a recipient host with a HSC population generated ex vivo is provided in which a first HSC population from a donor is obtained the first HSC population is contacted with an antagonist that reduces latexin expression and or latexin activity the HSC population is cultured under in vitro conditions that can promote cell proliferation and or inhibit apoptosis to obtain a second HSC population that comprises a progeny of the first HSC population and the second HSC population is transplanted to the recipient host in need of HSC reconstitution.

A method for reconstituting a recipient host with a HSC population generated in vivo is provided in which the recipient host is administered with a pharmaceutical composition comprising an antagonist that reduces latexin expression and or latexin activity.

Various embodiments provide methods and related compositions useful for reconstituting hematopoietic stem cells HSCs within a patient in need of HSC renewal. For example the present methods are useful for the treatment of patients affected with disorders diseases and or cancers that deleteriously compromise the number of endogenous HSCs and differentiated forms of such HSCs within patients. Examples of disorders diseases and or cancers contemplated for treatment by the present methods and compositions include diseases of the blood diseases of the bone marrow cancers of the blood and cancers of the bone marrow including various types of anemia leukemia immunological disorders thalassemia major sickle cell disease myelodysplastic syndrome lymphoma aplastic anemia and multiple myeloma. Patients that may benefit from treatments that utilize the present methods and related compositions include candidates for bone marrow transplantation BMT and hematopoietic stem cell transplantation HSCT . Transplantation therapies can be effective for the treatment of various types of leukemia and any disorder disease cancer for which patients are subjected to radiotherapy and or chemotherapy. The renewed or regenerated population of HSCs that can be induced by the present methods and compositions are useful for various applications including regenerative medicine tissue engineering tissue repair cancer therapy and gene therapy. As described in the following embodiments a given HSC population obtained from a donor or within a recipient host i.e. a patient can be induced to proliferate and or to suppress apoptosis by providing antagonistic compounds compositions that can inhibit latexin expression and or latexin activity.

As used throughout the specification and the appended claims the terms listed below have the following meanings wherein a means one or more 

The terms hematopoietic stem cells HSCs refer to a heterogeneous mixture of undifferentiated progenitor stem cells mainly composed of long term HSCs LT HSCs and short term HSCs ST HSCs . LT HSCs are undifferentiated stem cells that have the capacity for self renewal throughout the life span of an organism. ST HSCs are undifferentiated stem cells that have the capacity for self renewal for a limited time prior to full differentiation into a specific lineage. For example HSCs can differentiate into hematopoietic progenitor cells HPCs that can further differentiate into clonogenic cells or cells of a single lineage that represent a subset of a hematopoietic lineage. HSCs include non embryonic stem cells isolated from post natal animals. HSCs include pluripotent adult stem cells isolated from the bone marrows of mammals that are capable of differentiating into tissues of all three germ or dermal layers such as the mesoderm endoderm and ectoderm. A pluripotent stem cell refers to a stem cell that exhibits the capacity to grow into any type of cell that constitutes an organism. A pluripotent cell can be self renewing and can remain dormant quiescent within a tissue. HSCs include multipotent stem cells that exhibit the capacity to grow into any subset of cells that constitute an organism. HSCs include undifferentiated stem cells that exhibit a distinct profile of cell surface markers including the following combination of markers Thy 1Sca 1Lineagec kit or CD150CD48Sca 1Lineagec kit or Thy 1CD150CD48Sca 1Lineagec kit Kiel et al. Cell Vol. 121 p 1109 1121 2005 . HSCs that express the combination of human counterparts for these markers are preferably contemplated. The following references are herein incorporated by reference in their entirety Cheshier et al. P.N.A.S. Vol. 96 p 3120 3125 1999 Eckfeldt et al. Nature Vol. 6 p 726 737 2005 Wright et. al. Science Vol. 94 p 1933 1936 2001 and Preston et al. J. Clin. Pathol. Vol. 56 p 86 96 2003 .

The term first HSC population refers to HSCs obtained from a donor wherein the first HSC population expresses cell surface markers as described in 0036 .

The term second HSC population refers to the progeny of the first HSC population produced by in vitro cell proliferation under in vitro conditions wherein the second HSC population expresses cell surface markers as described in 0036 .

The term latexin Lxn refers to the Lxn gene isoforms variants of the Lxn gene and gene products derived from the Lxn gene including messenger RNA and protein. The sense strand of a human latexin cDNA is provided as SEQ ID NO 1. A human latexin protein sequence is provided as SEQ ID NO 2. Latexin isoforms variants include genes containing exon sequences having at least about 70 75 80 85 90 95 96 97 98 or 99 sequence similarity to SEQ ID NO 1 genes containing exon sequences having at least about 70 75 80 85 90 95 96 97 98 or 99 sequence identity to SEQ ID NO 1 those sequences encoded by genes containing exon sequences having at least about 70 75 80 85 90 95 96 97 98 or 99 sequence similarity to SEQ ID NO 1 those sequences encoded by genes containing exon sequences having at least about 70 75 80 85 90 95 96 97 98 or 99 sequence identity to SEQ ID NO 1 those sequences having at least about 70 75 80 85 90 95 96 97 98 or 99 sequence similarity to SEQ ID NO 2 and those sequences having at least about 70 75 80 85 90 95 96 97 98 or 99 sequence identity to SEQ ID NO 2. Latexin isoforms variants include mammalian homologs listed in Tables 1 3 as described in 0076 . Examples of latexin isoforms variants include the carboxypeptidase inhibitor CARIN described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 998 373.

The term antagonist refers to any compound or composition that can inhibit the expression and or the activity of latexin and latexin isoforms including sequence specific polynucleotides that can interfere with the transcription of endogenous latexin gene sequence specific polynucleotides that can interfere with the translation of latexin mRNA transcripts e.g. siRNAs ribozymes sequence specific polypeptides that can interfere with the protein stability of latexin the enzymatic activity of latexin and or the binding activity of latexin with respect to substrates and or regulatory proteins and small molecule compounds that can interfere with the protein stability of latexin the enzymatic activity of latexin and or the binding activity of latexin. An effective antagonist can promote HSC proliferation by at least 25 30 35 40 45 50 55 60 65 70 75 80 85 90 95 or 100 . An effective antagonist can suppress HSC apoptosis by at least 25 30 35 40 45 50 55 60 65 70 75 80 85 90 95 or 100 .

The present inventors have identified a quantitative trait loci QTL that confers variation in HSC numbers in young and adult C57BL 6 B6 and DBA 2 D2 mice. By utilizing reciprocal Chromosome 3 congenic mice derived from these two parental strains such as B.D Chr3 and D.B Chr3 mice the present inventors have demonstrated that introgressed D2 alleles confer an increase in HSC population size by enhancing HSC cell proliferation i.e. HSC self renewal and or by suppressing HSC apoptosis as seen in B.D Chr3 congenic mice. In contrast the B6 alleles conferred a decrease in HSC population size. Differential expression levels conferred by these alleles correlated with the latexin Lxn gene locus. Differential latexin expression levels were shown to inversely correlate with HSC population size based on experimental data obtained utilizing oligonucleotide arrays e.g. microarrays real time PCR and Western blots. Ectopic expression of latexin protein from a retroviral construct resulted in a decrease in stem cell population size. Clusters of single nucleotide polymorphisms SNPs were identified upstream of the Lxn transcriptional start site. At least two of these clusters appear to be associated with potential binding sites for transcription factors involved in hematorpoietic stem cell regulation. Thus promoter polymorphisms between B6 and D2 alleles appear to affect Lxn gene expression and consequently to influence HSC population size. The results of these experiments are presented in and are further described in Examples 1 15.

Latexin was identified initially as an antigen expressed within the rat cerebral cortex. Latexin mRNA and protein 29 kDa have been shown by others to be expressed in neural and non neural tissues. Latexin exhibits inhibitory activity against rat carboxypeptidase A1 CPA1 carboxypeptidase A2 CPA2 and mast cell CPA Uratani et al. Biochem. J. Vol 346 817 826 2000 . CPA and CPB are pancreatic zinc containing proteolytic enzymes that catalyze the hydrolysis of the carboxyl terminal peptide bond within polypeptide chains. Carboxypeptidase activities can be regulated either by endogenous protein inhibitors or by enzymatic cleavage of a segment of a propeptide that releases the active form of the carboxypeptidase. Both latexin and Tissue Carboxypeptidase Inhibitor TCI are examples of endogenous protein inhibitors of carboxypeptidases. Latexin and TCI contain several potential phosphorylation sites and both are expressed and localized in the cytosol of a number of tissues including the brain the lung and the digestive tract.

The mechanism for transcriptional regulation of latexin appears to be related to the unique molecular architecture of the Lxn gene locus that includes multiple SNPs within potential regulatory regions. The Lxn gene locus is located within an intron of Gfml a gene that encodes a translational elongation factor in mitochondria. Because Gfml was not differentially expressed amongst the congenic and background strains investigated the differential transcriptional regulation of the embedded Lxn was unique. The specific promoter and or enhancer regions of Lxn appear to be highly gene specific and to enable differential gene regulation. A potential mechanism for differential gene expression between B6 and D2 alleles is suggested by the identification of clusters of confirmed SNPs sites within the potential promoter region of Lxn that are spatially concordant with two putative binding sites for transcription factors known to regulate stem cells. For example a cluster of SNPs SNPs 1 3 in the canonical Lxn promoter region is consistent with a region identified by ESPEER as potentially possessing regulatory activity. The SNP2 is located in the middle of the canonical core binding site in one of two adjacent potential binding sites for the transcription factor CBF1. The CBF1 is associated with the Notch signaling pathway known to be play a role in the regulation of stem cell population size. The SNPs 10 and 11 are in close proximity or reside within potential regulatory regions identified by ESPERR and TraFaC. The HNF1 TCF1 a transcription factor with two adjacent binding sites close to SNP11 can mediate events downstream of the canonical Wnt beta catenin signaling pathway known to be involved in HSC regulation and to interact with the Notch signaling pathway.

Various embodiments provide ex vivo methods for producing a renewed population of hematopoietic stem cells HSCs in which the method comprises obtaining a first HSC population from a donor contacting the first HSC population with an antagonist that reduces latexin expression and or latexin activity and culturing the HSC population under in vitro conditions that promote cell proliferation and or inhibit apoptosis to obtain a second HSC population that comprises a progeny of the first HSC population.

The first HSC population and the second HSC population can express any of the following combination of cell surface markers characteristic of HSCs Thy 1Sca 1Lineagec kit or CD150CD48Sca 1Lineagec kit or Thy 1CD150CD48Sca 1Lineagec kit.

The first HSC population can be obtained from a biopsy removed from a donor employing techniques known by persons skilled in the art including the removal of stem cells from the bone marrow of a donor from large bone masses utilizing a large needle intended for bone marrow harvesting. The amount of hematopoietic stem cells needed as the first HSC population for the present method is less than the amount of hematopoietic stem cells needed for a conventional bone marrow transplantation that may require hundreds of needle insertions to obtain sufficient material for direct transplantation into a recipient host. Alternatively HSCs may be collected by apheresis a process in which a donor s peripheral blood is withdrawn through a sterile needle and passed through a device that removes white blood cells and that returns the red blood cells to the donor. The peripheral stem cell yield can be increased with daily subcutaneous injections of granulocyte colony stimulating factor. The HSCs are preferably obtained from human donors however non human donors are also contemplated including non human primates pigs cows horses cats and dogs. A purified population of HSCs may be obtained by utilizing various methods known by persons skilled in the art and described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 677 136 and U.S. Patent Publication No. 2006 0040389 which are incorporated by reference in their entirety.

Suitable antagonists include SiRNAs ribozymes anti sense oligodeoxynucleotides and small molecule compounds that can reduce latexin expression and or latexin activity. Examples of suitable antagonists and methods for producing or identifying such antagonists are described below in Subsection C. A therapeutically effective latexin antagonist can promote HSC proliferation and or suppress apoptosis by at least 25 . Suitable antagonists are further defined above in Subsection I.

Contacting the first HSC population with an antagonist that reduces latexin expression and or latexin activity can promote cell proliferation and or inhibit apoptosis provided that the first HSC population is cultured under suitable in vitro conditions. Latexin expression and or latexin activity include intracellular processes that regulate latexin promoter activation transcriptional activation transcriptional termination post transcriptional processing translational initiation translational elongation translational termination and post translational modification. Examples of suitable in vitro conditions are provided in U.S. Patent Publication No. 2005 0214262 U.S. Patent Publication No. 2006 0030041 and U.S. Patent Publication No. 2006 0030041 which are incorporated by reference in their entirety.

Latexin isoforms variants suitable for antagonist mediated targeting are provided above in 0039 in Subsection I.

In another embodiment a HSC population produced by the present methods is disclosed in which the HSCs comprise any of the following combination of cell surface markers characteristic of HSCs Thy 1Sca 1Lineagec kit or CD150CD48Sca 1 Lineagec kit or Thy 1CD150CD48Sca 1Lineagec kit.

Various embodiments provide methods for reconstituting a recipient host with a population of hematopoietic stem cells HSCs generated ex vivo in which the method comprises obtaining a first HSC population from a donor contacting the first HSC population with an antagonist that reduces latexin expression and or latexin activity culturing the HSC population under in vitro conditions that promote cell proliferation and or inhibit apoptosis to obtain a second HSC population comprising a progeny of the first HSC population and providing the second HSC population to the recipient host in need of HSC reconstitution.

The present methods are useful for the treatment of a recipient host affected with a disease of the blood a disease of the bone marrow a cancer of the blood and a cancer of the bone marrow an immunological disorder anemia leukemia thalassemia major sickle cell disease myelodysplastic syndrome lymphoma aplastic anemia and or multiple myeloma. Disorders suitable for treatment by the present methods include disorders that reduce the number of endogenous HSC population such as genetic disorders that result in sub optimal number of HSCs cancers that result in sub optimal number of HSCs post irradiation conditions that result in sub optimal number of HSCs and post chemotherapy conditions that result in sub optimal number of HSCs.

The HSC population generated ex vivo by the present methods are transferred into a recipient host in need of HSC reconstitution. Such HSC populations that have been exposed to the antagonist and that have been expanded can be infused intravenously into the blood stream of the recipient host. The antagonist exposed and pre expanded HSC population can localize within local niches of a bone marrow after a brief circulation in the blood stream. The antagonist induced and pre expanded HSC population may be able to respond to various growth factors produced by endothelial cells within the local bone marrow niches that may contribute to further proliferation and or suppression of apoptosis of the antagonist exposed and pre expanded HSC population. Reconstitution of HSCs within the recipient host is achieved when the total number of HSCs within the recipient host is at least 25 greater than before transplantation of the antagonist induced and pre expanded HSC population.

In one embodiment the donor is the same organism as the recipient host in that the donor has identical HLA haplotype as the recipient host and wherein the recipient host is reconstituted with autologous HSCs when provided with the second HSC population. For example allogenic bone marrow transplantation involves two persons a non diseased donor and a diseased patient recipient. In autologous transplantion the risks for developing graft rejection infection and Graft Verses Host Disease GVHD are reduced.

In another embodiment the donor is not the same organism as the recipient host and the donor has a HLA haplotype of sufficient similarity to the HLA haplotype of the recipient host and wherein the recipient host is reconstituted with allogenic HSCs when provided with the second HSC population. For optimal results the allogeneic HSC donors should have identical human leukocyte antigens HLA as the recipient host and the recipient host should receive immunosuppressive medications. For example an allogenic transplant donor may be a relative e.g. a sibling or an unrelated volunteer.

Various embodiments provide methods for reconstituting a recipient host with a population of hematopoietic stem cells HSCs generated in vivo in which the method comprises administering to the recipient host a pharmaceutical composition comprising an antagonist that reduces latexin expression and or latexin activity.

The present methods enable clinicians to promote HSC proliferation within the bone marrow of patients affected by any type of disorder disease or cancer that may reduce the supply of endogenous HSCs to less than an optimal number. The recipient host is affected with a disease of the blood a disease of the bone marrow a cancer of the blood and a cancer of the bone marrow an immunological disorder anemia leukemia thalassemia major sickle cell disease myelodysplastic syndrome lymphoma aplastic anemia and or multiple myeloma.

The pharmaceutical composition comprises a therapeutically effective amount of the antagonist. The pharmaceutical composition further comprises a pharmaceutical excipient known by persons skilled in the art. Pharmaceutical formulations for effective delivery of pharmaceutical composition will vary depending on the latexin antagonist and mode of administration. Suitable pharmaceutical carriers are known by persons skilled in the art Remington s Pharmaceutical Sciences 1989 which is incorporated in entirety . Pharmaceutical compositions can be administered by various methods including by injection oral administration inhalation transdermal application or rectal administration. For oral administration suitable formulations containing a pharmaceutical compound and pharmaceutically compatible carriers can be delivered in various forms such as tablets or capsules liquid solutions suspensions emulsions and the like. For inhalation suitable formulations containing a pharmaceutical compound and pharmaceutically compatible carriers can be delivered as aerosol formulations that can be placed into pressurized propellants such as dichlorodifluoromethane propane nitrogen and the like. For parenteral administration suitable formulations containing a pharmaceutical compound and pharmaceutically compatible carriers can be delivered by intra articular intra venous intra muscular intra dermal intra peritoneal and sub cutaneous routes.

Pharmaceutical compositions suitable for use include compositions containing active ingredients in an effective amount to achieve its intended purpose. More specifically a therapeutically effective amount means an amount effective to promote the proliferation of HSCs and or inhibit apoptosis of HSCs in subjects exposed to the present pharmaceutical compositions. Determination of the effective amounts is well within the capability of persons skilled in the art. A dose can be formulated in animal models to achieve a circulating concentration range that includes IC50 value defined as a dose in which 50 of cells of a culture show an effect due to the test compound. Such information can be used to more accurately determine useful doses in human subjects.

Toxicity and therapeutic efficacy of such compounds can be determined by standard pharmaceutical procedures utilizing cell cultures or experimental animals in order to determine a LD50 value the dose determined to be lethal to 50 of the exposed population and to determine a ED50 value the dose determined to be therapeutically effective in 50 of the exposed population. A dose ratio between toxic effect and therapeutic effect is referred to as the therapeutic index or it can be expressed as the ratio of the LD50 value over the ED50 value. Compounds that exhibit high therapeutic indices are preferred. The data obtained from cell culture assays and animal studies can be used in formulating a range of effective dosage for human usage. Optimal dosage range includes a ED50 dose with minimal toxicity although the dosage may vary within this range depending on a given pharmaceutical formulation and route of administration. Dosage administered to a subject should be adjusted according to the age of the subject the weight of the subject the manner of administration and other circumstances unique to each subject.

C. Exemplary Antagonists that Inhibit the Expression and or Activity of Latexin and Latexin Isoforms Variants

A HSC population obtained from a donor can be induced to proliferate ex vivo under in vitro conditions or an endogenous HSC population within a patient can be induced to proliferate in situ by exposing the HSC population of interest to various antagonists that can inhibit latexin gene expression and or latexin activity.

Suitable compositions that can inhibit the expression and or the activity of latexin and latexin variants include sequence specific polynucleotides that can interfere with the transcription of endogenous latexin gene sequence specific polynucleotides that can interfere with the translation of latexin mRNA transcripts e.g. siRNAs ribozymes sequence specific polypeptides that can interfere with the protein stability of latexin the enzymatic activity of latexin and or the binding activity of latexin with respect to substrates and or regulatory proteins antibodies that exhibit specificity for latexin and small molecule compounds that can interfere with the protein stability of latexin the enzymatic activity of latexin and or the binding activity of latexin. An effective antagonist can promote HSC proliferation by at least 25 30 35 40 45 50 55 60 65 70 75 80 85 90 95 or 100 .

In one embodiment various siRNAs that are complementary to human latexin mRNA and mammalian orthologs can be employed by persons skilled in the art to promote HSC proliferation and or inhibit HSC apoptosis. By introducing such RNAi compounds to a recipient patient deficient in HSCs the silencing or inactivation effect of RNAi compounds on latexin gene gene products within the HSCs can promote HSC proliferation and or inhibit HSC apoptosis. Because introduction of double stranded RNA dsRNA that are longer than 30 nucleotides into mammalian cells induces a sequence nonspecific interferon response alternative methods for delivery of interfering RNA molecules RNAi may be suitable. For example most common form of RNAi molecules are short interfering RNAs siRNAs of 21 23 base pairs that are chemically or enzymatically synthesized which can be introduced into mammalian host cells by various methods including transfections. However unlike fungi plants and worms that can replicate siRNAs in vivo transfection of siRNA produces only transient gene silencing effect in mammalian cells. As an alternative DNA vectors encoding precursor like forms of siRNAs may be used for stable production of siRNAs in vivo in various hosts including mammalian cells.

In another embodiment compounds that can promote HSC proliferation and or inhibit HSC apoptosis are contemplated in which the compounds comprise an oligonucleotide that can interact with endogenous messenger RNA encoded by latexin gene or by latexin isoforms having at least about 70 75 80 85 90 95 96 97 98 or 99 sequence similarity to SEQ ID NO 1 i.e. a sense strand of human latexin cDNA . Such RNA oligonucleotide compounds can be single stranded or double stranded. Suitable lengths of RNA oligonucleotides include molecules containing 15 20 nucleotides 20 30 nucleotides 30 50 nucleotides 50 75 nucleotides 75 100 nucleotides 100 150 nucleotides 150 200 nucleotides and 200 300 nucleotides. In another embodiment the present invention is directed to compounds that can promote HSC proliferation and or inhibit HSC apoptosis the compounds include an anti sense strand that can hybridize to an endogenously produced messenger RNA and that can inhibit the translation of the messenger RNA.

Selection of efficient siRNAs is an empirical process but certain rules governing optimal selection of siRNAs are known. The sequence selected for a siRNA appears to be critical. For example siRNAs containing sequence motifs such as AANTT NANNN NARNYNN and NANNYNN are effective in which N is any nucleotide R is a purine and Y is a pyrimidine. In addition regions of complementary DNA should have non repetitive sequences and should avoid intronic sequences. Suitable siRNAs contain approximately 30 70 GC content contain even representation of all nucleotides on the anti sense strand and do not contain stretches of single nucleotide especially stretches of Gs. Designing suitable SiRNA molecules is within the scope of persons skilled in the art. The following references are herein incorporated by reference in their entirety Henschel et. al. Nucleic Acids Research Vol. 32 113 120 2004 Naito et al. Nucleic Acids Research Vol. 32 124 129 2004 Dorsett et al. Vol. 3 318 329 2004 and Brummelkamp et al. Nature Reviews Vol. 3 781 789 2003 Pusch et al. Nucleic Acid Research 31 6444 6449 2003 and Chiu et al. RNA 9 1034 1048 2003 .

Although any region of mRNA can be theoretically targeted certain sequences that are known binding sites for mRNA binding proteins should be avoided including untranslated regions such as the 5 UTR and 3 UTR start codons and exon exon boundaries. For some mRNA targets siRNA directed silencing may be more effective if the siRNA sequence is selected at least 50 100 nucleotides downstream of a start codon and preferably directed towards the 3 end of a target mRNA. In addition the conformation of a mRNA recognition site within an mRNA target is preferably RNAse H sensitive and preferably not within a highly structured RNA region. These guidelines are generally applicable since the choice of a siRNA depends on the target mRNA sequence and persons skilled in the art would need to synthesize several siRNAs to validate the efficiency of each. The specificity of a siRNA for a single gene can be ascertained by performing a multiple genome sequence alignment such as a BLAST search of the selected sequence against sequence databases including Unigene libraries associated with National Center for Biotechnology Information NCBI . Potential off target silencing by siRNA may be minimized by choosing a siRNA sequence with maximum sequence divergence from a list of genes with partial sequence identity to the intended mRNA target. General principles for siRNA selection are taught by the following two review articles which are incorporated by reference Dorsett and Tuschl Nature Reviews Vol. 3 318 329 2004 Dykxhoorn et al. Nature Reviews Vol. 4 457 467 2003 .

Various expression vectors can be constructed to enable stable production of siRNA like molecules in vivo. For example RNA pol II promoters may be operably linked to a hairpin precursor of a siRNA sequence of interest. RNA pol II promoters represent a broad range of promoters that enable substantial control over parameters governing RNA expression such as inducible constitutive tissue specific or developmentally regulated RNA expression. Alternatively RNA pol III promoters may be used to produce short RNA species that do not activate the interferon pathway. Suitable RNA pol III promoters include class III promoters that lack essential transcriptional elements downstream of a transcription initiation site such as U6 and H1 promoters which may be operably linked to a siRNA encoding sequence.

Long hairpin RNAs imperfect shRNAs miRNAs and siRNAs can be designed as follows. For example a sub sequence of a messenger RNA encoded by latexin gene or by latexin isoforms having at least about 70 75 80 85 90 95 96 97 98 or 99 sequence similarity to SEQ ID NO 1 i.e. a sense strand of human latexin cDNA can be targeted. For example an anti sense strand of shRNA can be designed by selecting a sub sequence portion of a RNA sequence complementary to endogenous latexin messenger RNA and latexin isoforms having at least about 70 sequence similarity to SEQ ID NO 1

For designing shRNA the composition and size of the loop and length of the stem of a hairpin duplex should be considered. Suitable stem lengths for efficient silencing include a broad range including stem lengths of 19 29 nucleotides. Suitable loop lengths for efficient silencing include a broad range including loop lengths of 4 23 nucleotides. In certain context hairpin structures with duplexed regions that are longer than 21 nucleotides may promote effective siRNA directed silencing regardless of loop sequence and length.

Various gene delivery vectors that are practiced by persons skilled in the art can be used to introduce the present expression vectors. Examples of viral vectors that may be used to infect HSC cells include improved adenoviral vectors Reynold et al. Nature Biotechnology 19 838 842 2001 gene deleted adenovirus transposon vectors Yant et al. Nature Biotechnology 20 999 1005 2002 recombinant adenoviruses Bilang Bleuel et al. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 94 8818 8823 1997 the Moloney murine leukemia virus Mo MuLV based retroviral vectors Auten et al. Human Gene Therapy 10 1389 99 2003 and poliovirus replicon based vectors Bledsoe et al. Nature Biotechnology 18 964 969 2000 . Examples of other suitable viral vectors include herpes virus mumps virus Sindbis virus vaccinia virus such as the canary pox virus and lentivirus. The usage of viral vectors is well known by persons skilled in the art and for gene therapy uses viral infection is preferred generally. The following references are incorporated by reference in their entirety Robbins and Ghizzani Mol. Med. Today 1 410 417 1995 Robin et al. Stem Cells 20 514 521 2002 Chen et al. Immunity 19 525 533 2003 North et al. Immunity 16 661 672 2002 Zhou et al. Nature Medicine 7 1028 1034 2001 Ivanova et al. 298 601 604 2002 and Santos et. al. Science 298 597 600 2002 .

In one embodiment various oligodeoxyribonucleic acid ODN molecules that are complementary to endogenous messenger RNA encoded by latexin gene or by latexin isoforms having at least about 70 75 80 85 90 95 96 97 98 or 99 sequence similarity to SEQ ID NO 1 i.e. a sense strand of human latexin cDNA can be employed by persons skilled in the art to promote HSC proliferation and or to inhibit HSC apoptosis. By introducing such oligodeoxyribonucleic acid ODN molecules to a recipient patient deficient in HSCs the silencing or inactivation effect of RNAi compounds on latexin gene gene products within the HSCs can promote HSC proliferation and or inhibit HSC apoptosis. Suitable oligodeoxyribonucleic acid molecules ODNs are short polynucleotides of approximately 20 nucleotides in length that can hybridize with pre mRNA and mRNA to form RNA DNA duplexes which are degraded by ribonuclease H RNase H . Such ODNs can be chemically modified to prevent the action of RNase H to inhibit translation of mRNA by steric hindrance to inhibit splicing of pre mRNAs and to inhibit transcription by the formation of triple helices. Kurreck J. et al. Eur. J. Biochem. 270 1628 1644 2003 Baker et al. J. Biol. Chem. 272 11994 2000 1997 Lu Q. L. et al Nature Med. 9 1009 1014 2003 and Uil et al. Nucleic Acids Res. 31 6064 6078 2003 are incorporated by reference in their entirety.

In one embodiment various ribozymes containing sequences that are complementary to endogenous messenger RNA encoded by latexin gene or by latexin isoforms having at least about 70 75 80 85 90 95 96 97 98 or 99 sequence similarity to SEQ ID NO 1 i.e. a sense strand of human latexin cDNA can be employed by persons skilled in the art in order to reduce latexin expression and or latexin activity that results in HSC proliferation and or HSC apoptosis. Ribozymes including the hammer head ribozyme are RNA molecules that bind target mRNA by assuming a unique secondary structure when hybridized to target mRNA which enables catalytic hydrolysis of a phosphodiester bond within in the backbone of target mRNA. Efficient cleavage by a ribozyme requires the presence of divalent ions such as magnesium and is also dependent on target RNA structure and relative proximity between ribozyme and target molecule. RNA localization signals or RNA chaperones may be used so that low concentrations of ribozymes are sufficiently effective in silencing latexin and latexin isoforms. Ribozymes can be chemically synthesized in vitro and can be transcribed from expression vectors in vivo. Methods for ribozyme construction and utilization are known by persons skilled in the art. Doudna and Cech Nature 418 222 228 2002 Kuwabara et al J. Biochem. 132 149 155 2002 Michienzi and Rossi Methods Enzymol. 341 581 596 2001 and Good et al. Gene Ther. 4 45 54 1997 are herein incorporated by reference.

In another embodiment suitable antagonists include compounds that can interact with polypeptides having at least about 70 75 80 85 90 95 96 97 98 or 99 sequence similarity to SEQ ID NO 2 that can inhibit the activity of the bound polypeptide and that can promote the proliferation of HSCs and or suppress the apoptosis of HSCs. In addition compounds that can interact with genomic DNA containing exons having at least about 70 75 80 85 90 95 96 97 98 or 99 sequence similarity to SEQ ID NO 1 i.e. a sense strand of human latexin cDNA can be employed. In addition compounds that can interact with RNA transcripts encoded by a gene in which the exon sequences have at least about 70 75 80 85 90 95 96 97 98 or 99 sequence similarity to SEQ ID NO 1 i.e. a sense strand of human latexin cDNA can be employed. Various compounds that can inhibit the expression and or activity of latexin or latexin isoforms can be either naturally occurring or synthetically produced. Large combinatorial libraries of chemical biological compounds can be generated by various chemical and biological synthesis methods known in the art. Such combinatorial chemical libraries include small organic molecule libraries benzodiazepines Baum C EN Jan. 18 page 33 1993 Chen et al. J. Amer. Chem. Soc. 116 2661 1994 such as isoprenoids U.S. Pat. No. 5 569 588 thiazolidinones and metathiazanones U.S. Pat. No. 5 549 974 pyrrolidines U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 525 735 and 5 519 134 morpholino compounds U.S. Pat. No. 5 506 337 and benzodiazepines U.S. Pat. No. 5 288 514 oligocarbamates Cho et al. Science 261 1303 1993 and peptidyl phosphonates Campbell et al. J. Org. Chem. 59 658 1994 . Exemplary combinatorial libraries include various peptide libraries U.S. Pat. No. 5 010 175 Furka Int. J. Pept. Prot. Res. 37 487 493 1991 Houghton et al. Nature 354 84 88 1991 peptoid libraries PCT Publication No. WO 91 19735 encoded peptides PCT Publication No. WO 93 20242 random bio oligomers PCT Publication No. WO 92 00091 benzodiazepines U.S. Pat. No. 5 288 514 diversomers such as hydantoins benzodiazepines and dipeptides Hobbs et al. Proc. Nat. Acad. Sci. USA 90 6909 6913 1993 vinylogous polypeptides Hagihara et al. J. Amer. Chem. Soc. 114 6568 1992 nonpeptidal peptidomimetics with glucose scaffolding Hirschmann et al. J. Amer. Chem. Soc. 114 9217 9218 1992 various nucleic acid libraries various peptide nucleic acid libraries U.S. Pat. No. 5 539 083 various carbohydrate libraries Liang et al. Science 274 1520 1522 1996 U.S. Pat. No. 5 593 853 and various antibody libraries Vaughn et al. Nature Biotechnology 14 3 309 314 1996 .

The present methods and compositions can be employed for targeting variants of latexin that have similar properties activities within HSCs of many types of mammalian subjects. Functionally related isoforms of latexin can be identified by searching various genomic databases and conducting multi genome wide sequence alignments in order to identify homologous sequences of interest. Related orthologous sequences can be identified by searching composite genomic databases. The breath of a database search is limited by the scope of representative model organisms for which sequence data is available.

Homology can be determined by various methods including alignments of open reading frames ORFs contained in private and or public databases. Any suitable mathematical algorithm may be used to determine percent identities and percent similarities between any two sequences being compared. For example nucleic acid and protein sequences of the present invention can be used as a query sequence to perform a search against sequences deposited within various public databases to identify other family members or evolutionarily related sequences. Genomic sequences for various organisms are currently available including fungi such as the budding yeast or Saccharomyces cerevisiae invertebrates such as Caenorhabditis elegans and Drosophila melangaster and mammals such as the mouse rat and human. Exemplary databases for identifying orthologs of interest include Genebank Swiss Protein EMBL and National Center for Biotechnology Information NCBI and many others known in the art. These databases enable a user to set various parameters for a hypothetical search according to the user s preference or to utilize default settings. Tables 1 3 provided below lists the accession numbers and gene identification numbers for exemplary mammalian orthologs. Suitable latexin variant that may be targeted for suppression or inhibition include the carboxypeptidase inhibitor CARIN described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 998 373.

The following examples are offered by way of illustration and not by way of limitation. Examples 1 provides a map of congenic intervals defined in the reciprocal strains. Example 2 provides an in vitro method for determining HSC frequencies by cobblestone area forming cell CAFC assay. Example 3 provides an in vivo method for determining HSC frequencies by a competitive limiting dilution assay. Example 4 provides the identification of latexin by a genome wide linkage analysis that correlates three QTL with HSC population size. Example 5 provides data that validates the linkage analysis and heritability of latexin. Example 6 provides the effect of latexin on HSC Replication. Example 7 provides the effect of latexin on HSC Self renewal. Example 8 provides the effect of latexin expression on apoptosis. Example 9 provides microarray analysis of LSK cells. Example 10 provides Lxn mRNA levels in hematopoietic cells. Example 11 provides Lxn expression in undifferentiated and differentiated hematopoietic cell populations. Example 12 provides Lxn protein levels in hematopoietic cells of congenic and background strain mice. Example 13 provides Cis Regulation of Lxn expression. Example 14 provides a decrease in stem cell numbers by the overexpression of Lxn.

The Chr 3 congenic mice were generated by well established methods known in the art. Mouse strains congenic for the Chr 3 QTL were generated by crossing the genomic interval harboring the QTL using D2 as the donor strain and B6 as the recipient strain symbolized as B.D Chr3 and vice versa D.B Chr3 . The two reciprocal congenic strains were derived by a speed congenic approach involving at least eight backcrosses with the respective background strains. Both congenic lines were homozygous within their respective congenic intervals and genotyped exclusively for background strain alleles using 100 microsatellite markers scattered throughout the non congenic genome. Congenic mice were genotyped every 6 months through genetic marker based polymerase chain reaction. All primers for simple sequence repeat SSR element markers were bought from Research Genetics Huntsville Ala. . Two strains of Chr 3 congenic mice were generated and maintained B.D Chr3 14 cM 33 cM congenics with D2 QTL being introgressed onto the B6 background and their reciprocal congenic strains D.B Chr3 19 cM 60 cM with B6 QTL on a D2 background. B6.SJL Ptprc CD 45.1 mice from Charles River laboratories Frederick Md. were used as transplantation recipients in competitive repopulation experiments. Female mice 6 to 10 weeks old were housed in the animal facilities of the University of Kentucky under pathogen free conditions according to NIH mandated guidelines for animal welfare. They were fed with acidified water and food ad libitum.

To quantify primitive hematopoietic cells derived from bone marrow in B6 D2 and 26 BXD RI strains an in vitro cobblestone area forming cell CAFC assay was performed. In this assay each cobblestone area represents a population formed by clonal amplification of a single stem cell or a progenitor cell and distinct populations arise in a chronological continuum. For determining the relative chronological age of a hematopoietic cell the latency period is determined by measuring the duration before clonal expansion by a primitive hematopoietic cell. A longer latency period indicates a more primitive hematopoietic cell. Cobblestone areas were counted after 35 days of culture a late time point. Primitive hematopoietic cells measured at this time point correlate strongly with long term repopulating stem cells in vivo.

Whole bone marrow cells and sorted LSK cells described below in Example 5 and were evaluated in a cobblestone area forming cell CAFC assay. In brief a confluent monolayer of FBMD 1 stromal cells was established in 96 well tissue culture treated plates Costar Cambridge Mass. . After 7 to 10 days wells were seeded either with unfractionated marrow at a dose of 81 000 27 000 9 000 3 000 1 000 or 333 cells per well or with sorted LSK cells at a dose of 1 3 10 or 30 cells per well using an automated cell deposition unit. Twenty or 60 replicate wells per cell number were evaluated in experiments with unfractioned or sorted cells respectively. The cells were cultured in Iscove s Modified Dulbecco Medium IMDM containing 20 horse serum 80 U mL penicillin 80 mg mL streptomycin all from Life Technologies 10 mecaptoethanol and 10M hydrocortisone both Sigma St. Louis Mo. . Individual wells were screened at day 7 14 21 28 and 35 for the presence of a cobblestone area defined as a colony of at least 5 small non refractile cells growing underneath the stroma. A longer latency period before the appearance of cobblestones correlates with a more primitive state of the stem cell. Thus the most primitive HSCs show cobblestones at day 35 whereas colonies that appear earlier are derived from more committed progenitor cells HPCs . Frequencies of CAFCs were calculated by using maximum likelihood analysis and are equal to 1 divided by the number of cells yielding 37 negative wells. The frequencies of CAFC day35 in BXD RI mouse strains were measured and were used to perform genome wide searches for linked loci within a GeneNetwork database.

A limiting dilution analysis in competitively repopulated host animals was performed over a long term 20 week period in order to functionally identify and to quantify HSCs in vivo. Graded numbers of bone marrow cells from B.D Chr3 congenic or B6 mice were first admixed with a fixed dose of competitor cells and were transplanted into groups of lethally irradiated mice. Lymphomyeloid reconstitution by either B.D Chr3 or B6 derived cells was assessed in the peripheral blood cells 20 weeks after transplantation. In limiting dilution competitive repopulation assay graded numbers 6 000 20 000 and 60 000 of B.D Chr3 congenic or B6 test cells CD45.2 were admixed with a radio protective dose 2 10 of competitor cells CD45.1 and were injected intravenously into lethally irradiated 900 Gy CD45.1 recipient mice.

Recipients were bled from the retro orbital sinus 20 weeks after transplantation. Peripheral blood cell counts were performed on anesthetized mice bled from the retro orbital venous plexus. Circulating leukocyte erythrocyte and platelet counts were measured by analysis of 40 ul blood using a System 9118 Hematology Series Cell Counter Biochem Immunosystems Allentown Pa. Erythrocytes were depleted by hypotonic lysis using NHCl. The leukocytes were stained in triplicate with fluorescein isothiocyanate FITC conjugated anti CD45.2 monoclonal antibody mAb clone ALI4A2 and phycoerythrin PE conjugated mAbs Becton Dickinson PharMingen San Diego Calif. specific for either B anti CD45R B220 clone RA3 6B2 or T lymphocytes anti Thy 1.2 clone 30H12 or granulocytes anti Ly6G Gr 1 clone RB6 8C5 and macrophages anti CD11 b Mac 1 clone M1 70 . Samples were analyzed using a FACScan instrument Becton Dickinson Immunocytometry Systems San Jose Calif. . The frequencies of long term HSCs were calculated from the proportions of negative recipients in each cell dose group by using L Calc software StemCell Technologies Inc. Vancouver BC . In each cell dose group 

To validate the results from genome wide linkage analysis described in Example 4 CAFC day 35 assays were performed on whole bone marrow cells and LSK cells. illustrates the CAFC day 35 frequency observed for femur cells whole bone marrow cells derived from reciprocal congenic strains of Chr3 congenic mice when compared to background mice. In introgression of D2 alleles onto the B6 background in the QTL region caused nearly a 2 fold increase in CAFC day35 number P 0.003 representing the number of HSCs in B.D Chr3 congenic mice whereas the introgression of B6 alleles onto the D2 background caused more than a 50 decrease P 0.02 . The values are shown as mean SEM n 9 . The absolute number of CAFC day35 per femur SEM for all strains as follows B66 397 59 B.D Chr3 724 73 D2 1978 684 D.B Chr3 1532 286. Moreover numbers for CAFC day 7 and day 21 which represent hematopoietic progenitor cells HPCs at different stages and the cell counts for peripheral blood leukocytes erythrocytes and platelets showed no differences among congenic and background strains. This suggested that the Chr 3 QTL specifically regulates HSC population size.

A long term limiting dilution analysis in competitively repopulated animal hosts was performed as further described above in Example 3. Graded numbers of bone marrow cells from B.D Chr3 congenic or B6 mice were admixed with a fixed dose 2 10 of competitor cells and transplanted into groups of lethally irradiated mice irradiated to ablate their endogenous hematopoietic system. The competitor cells and recipient mice have a CD45.1 surface marker whereas B.D Chr3 and B6 mice carry the CD45.2 marker on virtually all hematopoietic cells. This genetic marker is not presently available on the D2 background that also bears CD45.2 which precludes analogous experiments with the reciprocal congenic strain. Twenty weeks after transplantation lymphomyeloid reconstitution by either B.D Chr3 or B6 derived cells was assessed in the peripheral blood cells 20 weeks after transplantation for the presence of CD45.2 cells by flow cytometry.

Together these three independent studies support the conclusion that a Chr 3 QTL in the congenic intervals confers the phenotype HSC population regulation and confirms the results obtained by linkage analysis. In the context of these congenics the QTL accounts for a significant portion of the natural variation of this parameter between the progenitor strains despite suggestive linkage of the phenotype with two other QTLs Chr 5 and Chr18 and with the presence of several other QTLs that approach suggestive linkage illustrated in .

The effect of latexin expression on the proliferative activity of various primitive cells was assessed using two independent approaches. First in vivo BrdU incorporation was used to determine cells in the S phase of the cell cycle. Mice were injected intraperitoneally with BrdU 1 mg per kg body weight and sacrificed 90 minutes later. Bone marrow LSK cells were identified as described above. Analysis of BrdU incorporation in LSK was performed using BrdU Flow Kit Pharmingen San Diego Calif. according to the manufacturer s instruction. Second the fraction of cells killed by a 1 hour in vitro incubation with hydroxyurea HU was measured. Hydroxyurea HU is an agent that blocks DNA synthesis and stops cell division by inhibiting ribonucleotide reductase. Briefly all bone marrow cell suspensions were diluted to a concentration of 1 10cells in 1 mL. Hydroxyurea Sigma St Louis Mo. 200 ug mL a total volume of 10 ul was added to one sample and incubated with the control sample for 1 hour at 33 C. The standard CAFC assay was then used to assay both HU treated and control samples. The fraction of cells killed by HU was calculated by dividing the CAFC frequency in the HU treated sample by the control value.

To determine the effect of QTL on cell cycle kinetics the CAFC day7 progenitor cells killed by hydroxyurea HU in the reciprocal congenic strains B6 and D2 mice were measured. illustrates the effect of Chr 3 QTL on the cell cycle kinetics of the progeny of HSCs also referred to as hematopoietic progenitor cells HPCs . Proliferation of HPCs measured by CAFC day7 cells killed by hydroxyurea HU in reciprocal congenic and B6 D2 strains. Data are shown as the average SD of 3 independent experiments n 9 . indicates the comparison between B6 and D2 and indicates the comparison between congenics and their respective background mice. P values are shown in the figure. The results showed that the D2 alleles in and around the Chr 3 QTL in a B6 background quantitatively can reproduce the higher killing rate observed in D2 mice. Similarly B6 alleles on a D2 background reproduced the entire variation in this trait between B6 and D2 mice. These results underscore the effect of the Chr 3 QTL on cell cycle kinetics of HSC and their immediate progeny. Interestingly progenitor cell numbers and differential blood cell counts showed no differences among the congenic and background strains showing that compensatory mechanisms during downstream amplification of differentiating cells obviated the variation in the final cell outputs in the multiple blood cell lineages.

The self renewal capacity of B.D Chr3 congenic HSCs was tested in serial transplant experiments in which B.D Chr3 congenic HSCs and B6 marrow cells were co transferred to recipients so that both types of cells competed for engraftment. In serial bone marrow transplantation B.D Chr3 congenic or B6 test cells were injected into the primary recipients along with equal number of competitor cells 1 10 . Sixteen weeks after transplant marrows were harvested from the primary recipients and were transplanted into secondary recipients. An identical regimen was repeated twice more culminating in engrafted quaternary hosts. At each transplant the peripheral blood bone marrow and bone marrow LSK cells were analyzed. The competitive advantage and self renewal capacities were analyzed by comparing the percentage of B.D Chr3 congenic derived or B6 derived cells at each round of transplantation.

To determine whether allelic differences in the Chr 3 congenic interval affected steady state apoptosis in HSC population apoptosis was assessed by Annexin V staining of bone marrow LSK cells.

Introgression of D2 alleles around the Chr 3 QTL in the B.D Chr3 congenic resulted in an apoptotic LSK subpopulation 0.6 0.1 similar to that of D2 mice which suggests that the congenic interval conferred the entire phenotype. Surprisingly analysis of marrow from the reciprocal congenic strain revealed a very low 0.3 0.03 apoptotic LSK population. Thus B6 alleles at and around the QTL do not confer the B6 phenotype onto D2 HSCs. In fact apoptosis was significantly P 0.02 less than in the D2 background strain. This result may be due to genes in the mutually exclusive congenic intervals of the reciprocal strains or genes in the D2 background having a strong negative effect on HSC apoptosis. The results suggest that the QTL might act through a mechanism influencing apoptosis in HSCs.

Oligonucleotide arrays of LSK cells were performed by the Microarray Facility Center at the University of Kentucky. Briefly total RNA were extracted from at least 550 000 sorted LSK cells from a minimum of 40 mice using RNeasy Kit QIAGEN Valencia Calif. . The extracted RNA was reverse transcribed into cDNA which was subsequently used to synthesize biotin labeled cRNA. The labeled cRNA was then fragmented and hybridized to the Mouse Genome U74Av2 chips MGUAv2 Affymetrix Santa Clara Calif. . The genechips were then washed stained and subsequently scanned for quantification of gene expression. Three independent biological samples were obtained for each strain and each was run on an individual chip. The gene expression levels were compared among all 4 strains using one way ANOVA with a statistical cutoff of P

Oligonucleotide arrays were utilized to screen for genes in the consensus congenic interval whose differential expression may account for the observed phenotypic variations. LSK cells were sorted from bone marrow of the reciprocal congenic mice and the two background strains mice. Large independently sorted biological samples for total RNA extraction were used to avoid representational skewing of low abundance mRNAs that may accompany amplification by PCR. Triplicate RNA samples each independently obtained from at least 550 000 LSK cells sorted and pooled from a minimum of 40 mice were collected from the four strains. Each RNA sample 4 strains 3 replicates 12 in all was hybridized to an individual microarray chip MGU Av2 Affymetrix . Results obtained from the triplicate chips for each strain were analyzed using Affymetrix Microarray Suite software and were compared using one way ANOVA for each congenic background strain pair. The number of genes differentially expressed between B.D Chr3 and B6 strains was 96 P

Table 4 is a list of genes differentially expressed in reciprocal Chr 3 congenic and B6 D2 HSCs as shown below. In Table 4 only 17 genes on 11 different chromosomes were mutually inclusive in comparisons between the reciprocal congenics and their respective background strains. Of 17 differentially expressed genes the D2 and B6 alleles had opposite effects on transcription in 9 17. 4 17 were mapped to Chr 3 but only was located in the consensus congenic interval near the marker of highest linkage in the mapping D3Mit5 . The gene was identified to be latexin Lxn whose expression was upregulated by B6 alleles and down regulated by D2 alleles a pattern suggested by the linkage analysis.

Lxn expression levels were determined along the differentiation pathway in the hematopoietic system. illustrates quantitation of Lxn transcripts by real time PCR in peripheral blood leukocytes whole bone marrow Lin negative bone marrow cells and LSK stem cells. In the same number of peripheral blood leukocytes whole bone marrow Lin negative bone marrow cells and LSK stem cells in each of the four strains were evaluated. Two points are noteworthy from the compiled results of three independent experiments. First overall levels of Lxn expression per cell in each of the populations increase in concert with the content of primitive hematopoietic cells. Second Lxn expression per cell in each of the cell populations accurately reflects the presence of B6 higher expression or D2 lower expression alleles in the two congenic and background strains. Lxn expression in differentiated peripheral blood leukocytes PB bone marrow nucleated cells and primitive hematopoietic cell enriched population including lineage negative cells Lin and HSCs LSK cells . Lxn mRNA level was measured by quantitative real time PCR and shown as mean 1 SD n 12 .

Quantitative real time PCR was performed as follows. Identical numbers 200 000 of cells were used for total RNA extraction in each type of cell population peripheral blood bone marrow Lin negative and LSK cells for each mouse strain. Isolated total RNA was reverse transcribed into cDNA using random hexamers in a TaqMan reverse transcription solution PN N8080234 and stored at 20 C. In real time PCR reactions primer and probe mix for Lxn were purchased from Applied Biosystems Foster city CA USA . TaqMan rodent glyceraldehyde 3 phosphate dehydrogenase GAPDH PN 4308313 served as an endogenous control to normalize Lxn expression. PCR reactions were set up according to manufacturer s instructions using TaqMan universal PCR master mix PN 4304437 . Analyses of gene expression were performed in single reporter assays in an ABI PRISM 7700 sequence detection system PE Biosystems Foster city CA USA .

A rabbit anti mouse LXN antibody was generated from the LXN specific amino acid sequence CKHNSRLPKEGQAE at the carboxyl terminus. Because Lxn transcripts were present at reasonable levels in unfractionated bone marrow and in Lin negative cells described above in of Example 11 the cell lysates derived from these cells were employed for Western blot analysis.

Western blots were performed as follows. Cell samples were lysed at a concentration of 2 10cells ml in protein lysis buffer containing 10 mM Tris pH7.5 50 mM NaCl 30 mM sodium pyrophosphate 50 mM NaF 5 M ZnCland 1 Triton X 100 2.8 ug ml aprotinin Sigma 1 mM phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride Sigma 1 mM sodium vanadate NaVO 1 ug ml pepstatin and 1 g ml leupeptin Oncogene Research MA USA . Lysate was incubated on ice for 30 min and then centrifuged at 15 000 g for 10 minutes to remove debris. The resulting supernatant was then aliquoted and stored at 80 C. For Western blot protein lysates were thawed and mixed with running buffer and a reducing agent Novex San Diego Calif. USA per manufacturer s instructions and heated at 95 C. for 5 minutes. Samples were then analyzed by denaturing PAGE Novex 10 bis Tris gel using the equivalent of 4 10cells per lane. Following electrophoresis samples were electro transferred onto immunobilon P membranes Millipore Bedford Mass. USA which were subsequently blocked and probed with polyclonal rabbit anti Lxn Ig G antibody at a 1 3000 dilution. This antibody was generated from the Lxn specific amino acid sequence CKHNSRLPKEGQAE at the carboxyl terminus and was produced by Bethyl Laboratories Inc Montgomery Tex. . Primary antibodies were detected using alkaline phosphatase conjugated secondary antibodies Santa Cruz Biotechnology and electro chemifluorescent ECF reagent Pharmacia Biotech according to the manufacturer s instructions. Blots were visualized using a Molecular Dynamics STORM 860 system and Imagequant Software. Following the detection and quantification of anti Lxn antibody immunobilon P membrane was sequentially stripped in 40 methanol and the buffer containing 100 mm mercaptoethanol 2 sodium dodecyl sulfate and 62.4 mM Tris HCl to remove ECF reaction product and antibodies respectively. The stripped membrane was re probed with anti actin antibody Sigma at 1 500 000 dilution and detected as described previously.

Because Lxn expression was detected and quantified in LSK cells of the 30 BXD RI strains in the GeneNetwork database a linkage analysis to search for a QTL that could modify Lxn expression was performed. When modifiers of Lxn expression were queried using such an approach suggestive linkage LRS 9.6 was obtained to a genomic interval spanning from 56.9 Mb to 66.8 Mb on Chr 3 very close to the genomic locations of D3Mit5 and Lxn a finding consistent with cis regulation. Moreover the negative additive effects of all markers in this genomic interval suggest that the B6 allele increases Lxn expression which corroborates our results from microarray real time PCR and Western blot analyses. Therefore these results not only suggest the existence of a regulatory element in the upstream region of the Lxn sequence but also corroborate D3Mit5 as a marker presumably the primary one for a QTL directly or indirectly responsible for the phenotypes conferred by the Chr 3 QTL.

Thus differential methylation status in the regulatory region of Lxn may be involved in the differential expression of Lxn. The results also suggest that Lxn may be a potential tumor progenitor gene which plays an occult role in early stages of cancer development. Taken together each of these possible pathways may be synergistically or independently involved in the regulation of cycling apoptosis and or self renewal of HSCs with entrained consequences for its population size.

Because D2 and B.D Chr3 congenic mice have lower levels of Lxn expression and higher stem cell numbers Lxn expression in both strains were enhanced in both strains to test the effect of Lxn overexpression on stem cell numbers.

Retroviral vectors were constructed as follows. The retroviral vector Sfbeta 91 served as a control and the backbone for cloning of Lxn cDNA. It contained the 5 long terminal repeat LTR derived from myeloproliferative sarcoma virus MPSV and a 3 LTR derived from spleen focus forming virus SFFV . The internal ribosomal entry site sequence derived from the encephalomyocarditis virus was used for simultaneous translation of gene insert and the gene for enhanced green fluorescent protein GFP . The Lxn cDNA sequence was cloned upstream of the IRES of the Sfbeta91 vector MPSV IRES GFP SFFV to create a recombinant Lxn carrying vector MPSV Lxn IRES GFP SFFV . Production of high titer helper free retrovirus was carried out by standard procedure in ectotropic Phoenix packaging cells.

Infection of primary murine bone marrow cells were infected as follows. Primary mouse bone marrow cells were transduced as previously described with modifications specified below. Briefly bone marrow cells were harvested from mice treated 4 days previously with 150 mg kg body weight 5 fluorouracil 5 FU Sigma St. Louis Mo. and cultured for 24 hours in Dulbecco s modified eagle s medium DMEM supplemented with 10 fetal bovine serum FBS 1 penicillin streptomycin Gibco Technologies Carlsbad Calif. 50 ng mL recombinant mouse stem cell factor mSCF 10 ng mL mouse interleukin 6 mIL 6 and 10 ng mL mouse interleukin 3 mIL 3 R D Systems Minneapolis Minn. . The cells were then harvested and slowly spread on the top surface of the membrane of a Transwell insert Corning Incorporated Life Sciences Acton Mass. at a density of 2 10cells per well. The viral supernatants were added to the Transwell inserts along with 4 g ml of polybrene and were cultured with cells for further 48 hours. The viral supernatant was changed 3 times during this period of time. The recovered cells were then transplanted into sub lethally irradiated 600 Rad recipient mice at a dose of at least 1 10cells per mouse. Around 12 weeks after transplantation retrovirally transduced i.e. GFP positive bone marrow cells were flow cytometrically sorted from primary recipient mice using a FACSVantage Becton Dickinson and used for CAFC assay and limiting dilution competitive repopulation assay.

Functional analysis of retrovirally transduced cells were performed as follows. Identical numbers of bone marrow cells transduced with either the GFP control vector or the Lxn GFP vector were sorted from the primary recipient mice. The CAFC and limiting dilution competitive repopulation assays of these GFP positive cells was performed as described above. The HSC frequencies CAFC day35 and LTRC were calculated and compared to measure the effects of Lxn overexpression on HSC number.

Quantitative real time PCR was performed in the following manner. Identical numbers 200 000 of cells were used for total RNA extraction in cells transfected with 3 SiRNAs and negative control RNAs. Isolated total RNA was reverse transcribed into cDNA using random hexamers in a TaqMan reverse transcription solution PN N8080234 and stored at 20 C. Quantitative real time PCR analyses of selected genes were performed in single reporter assays with an ABI PRISM 7700 sequence detection system PE Biosystems Foster city CA USA . PCR reactions were set up according to manufacturer s instructions using TaqMan universal PCR master mix PN 4304437 and the primer and probe mixes for each tested gene were purchased from Applied Biosystems Foster city CA USA . TaqMan rodent glyceraldehyde 3 phosphate dehydrogenase GAPDH PN 4308313 served as an endogenous control to normalize gene expression. The analysis of gene expression was performed by the relative standard curve method. In brief standard curves were prepared for the GAPDH control and for each of tested genes and the amount of GAPDH control and test gene were determined from the standard curve. A normalized test gene value was determined relative to GAPDH expression. Each biological sample was obtained from at least 5 mice and each sample was run with at least 5 replicates within an experiment. Three replicate biological experiments were performed in each strain.

It will be appreciated that although specific embodiments of the invention have been described herein for purposes of illustration various modifications may be made without departing from the spirit and the scope of the invention. Accordingly the invention is not limited except as by the appended claims.

