---

title: Identifying audio files of an audio file storage system having relevance to a first file
abstract: Methods and systems for providing related audio files in an audio file storage system are disclosed. One method includes identifying a plurality of audio files within the audio file storage system, wherein the plurality of audio files each have a relationship with the first file, and wherein each audio file includes an audio and associated information. The method further includes generating, by a system server, a list of inquiries based on the plurality of audio files, providing, by the system server, the list of inquiries to at least one creator of the first file, receiving from the at least one creator at least one response to the list of inquiries, selecting a subset of the plurality of audio files based on the at least one response, and storing information related to the selected subset of the plurality of audio files.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08843576&OS=08843576&RS=08843576
owner: Python4Fun, Inc.
number: 08843576
owner_city: San Mateo
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120403
---
The described embodiments relate generally to search results. More particularly the described embodiments relate to methods and systems for identifying audio files of an audio file storage system having relevance to a first file.

Search engines running on audio file storage systems use a variety of search techniques to present audio files or files embedded with audio to users based on one or more search terms that are provided by the users. The relevance of search results relate closely to the search terms creators or date created. The search engine generally produces a large number of results with audio files that include some irrelevant results and are difficult to sort for relevant audio files or audio files. Many suggested audio files are not relevant to the user. Relevant results are not always provided.

It is desirable to have methods and systems for providing a list of audio files related to the selected audio file relevant to the subject matter of the selected audio file.

One embodiment includes a method of automatically identifying one or more audio files in an audio file storage system related to a first file. The method includes identifying a plurality of audio files within the audio file storage system wherein the plurality of audio files each have a relationship with the first file wherein the audio file storage system provides a platform for storing and sharing audio files and wherein each audio file includes an audio and associated information. The method further includes generating by a system server a list of inquiries based on the plurality of audio files providing by the system server the list of inquiries to at least one creator of the first file receiving from the at least one creator at least one response to the list of inquiries selecting a subset of the plurality of audio files based on the at least one response and storing information related to the selected subset of the plurality of audio files for access if the first file is selected.

Another embodiment includes providing the list of enquiries to more than one creator. In another embodiment a different list of inquiries is provided to a first creator and other creators. The identified audio files are ranked based on the responses from all the creators and a subset of audio files is selected.

Other aspects and advantages of the described embodiments will become apparent from the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings illustrating by way of example the principles of the described embodiments.

The described embodiments are embodied in methods and systems for providing a set of audio files to a user in an audio file storage system where the set of audio files have relevance to the first file from a search or retrieval of a record identifying the first file.

In at least some embodiments an audio file storage system provides a platform for storing and sharing audio files wherein each audio file includes an audio and associated information. For an embodiment the associated information includes at least metadata. Users can send audio files and share the audio files. In an embodiment the shared audio files have viewers or creators. Apple iTunes Google Music Spotify and Amazon MP3 are all examples of audio file storage systems each storing audio files or audio streams addressable at hyperlinks on the world wide web. The audio file storage system is accessible among the members of a group or on the World Wide Web. In an embodiment any user may edit an audio file. In several embodiments a first file is an audio file in the audio file storage system or on the disk drive of the user system or a file on the internet or a file on any other file system identified to generate a list of related audio files. In several embodiments the first file may be a recently added audio file to the audio file storage system or identified due a large number of audio files added to the audio file storage system in the same subject matter or identified automatically for a periodic update of related audio files or identified by any other method.

The audio file storage system is updated constantly as users add audio files to the audio file storage system. As the number of audio files grows large existence of the audio file may not be known to many users if relevant hyperlinks to other audio files are not created. Creating hyperlinks is a manual task and often few audio files are hyperlinked together in an audio file storage system. Search engines provide access to the audio files that are not hyperlinked.

Unlike machine generated references using an algorithm running on a computer the judgment of creators in selecting related audio files is valuable to other readers due to the creator s intrinsic understanding and motivation to identify materials related to the audio file written by that creator. In general a creator or expert has greater interest and more precise understanding of the subject matter of what they wrote in their audio file compared to other readers. In several embodiments a creator may be any of a creator of the audio file a director a narrator a transcript creator a sound technician a music director an expert on the subject matter or a team member anyone who has write privilege to the first file or anyone who posts the file on a social network newsfeed.

Search engines list related audio files that are published before or after an audio file has been published. When an audio file is selected from the search results a set of related audio files may be presented by the search engine. The set of related audio files are based on some criteria such as the number of hyperlinks an audio file has common subject matter and the frequency of certain phrases in the meta data or text transcription of the audio file. The number of hyperlinks is one of the criteria for search engines to list an audio file at the top of the related audio files. If an audio file has no hyperlinks the search engine may not list an audio file at the top though the audio file may be relevant. The criteria for suggesting a list of related audio files can be improved by using an expert or creator to recommend the audio files through hyperlinks. The process of semi automating the presentation of a list of related audio files is described in the embodiments.

A set of audio files related to the first file is identified in audio file storage system by server . In one embodiment identifying in audio file storage system includes server identifying a set of audio files related to the first file and receiving the list of identified audio files. In another embodiment identifying in audio file storage system includes server receiving the list of identified audio files. In several embodiments the set of identified audio files can be the output of a natural language search or a text analysis on the meta data or text transcript of the audio file or from collaborative filtering or any other search technique. In several embodiments the search can be based on a string of words or a picture or a creator. The set of audio files is derived based on a relationship with the first file. The relationship can be any one of or some of creator of the first file frequently used noun phrases in the meta data or text transcript of the audio file date created later than the first file a specific date created or a date created after a specific date. Audio files published from a creator tend to have common subject matter. Frequently used noun phrases in the first file are also keywords for searching related audio files. However the occurrence of specific noun phrases in the audio file storage system may change with technology or over a period of time. Many search engines may not have the intelligence to recognize the changing noun phrases over a period of time. In some embodiments the full text of the meta data or transcript is used for searching to yield more relevant related audio files. Audio files with date created later than the first file are valuable as users are generally interested in recent updates.

In an example a search engine operating on server uses the iTunes Store API to identify related audio files in iTunes based on noun phrases in audio file meta data and text transcript of the audio file. iTunes is an audio file storage and transmission system. iTunes Store API is a powerful application programming interface that allows users to search for audio files on iTunes . The algorithm used to generate the search terms automatically extracts noun phrases from an audio file using natural language processing tools and ranks them by the number of occurrences in the audio file meta data compared to the number of occurrences on the audio file storage system. Server generates a list of inquiries based on the set of audio files related to the first file. In an embodiment the list of inquiries includes questions asking the creator whether the audio files are relevant to the first file and the search terms used in keyword search or noun phrase used to select the audio file.

First creator is notified of the list of inquiries generated by server . In the described embodiments a first creator is the creator of the first file an expert on the subject matter or a team member or anyone who has write privilege to the first file. In the described embodiments the notification can be sent electronically. In an embodiment the notification email contains a hyperlink to a webpage that contains the list of inquiries. In another embodiment the email contains the text of the inquiries. In another embodiment the notification is sent by an email or message on a social network such as Facebook or Instant message system. In another embodiment the notification is sent from a web based interface such as Jive or LinkedIn or Google Docs . The creator completes the inquiry by selecting one or more audio files related to the first file in the opinion of the creator and sends the response to the server using any of the notification methods described above. Server receives the response to the inquiry from the creator and processes the response. The response includes a selection of audio files related to the first file. In an embodiment the response includes a ranked list of the related audio files identifying the relevance of the related audio files to the first file.

In an embodiment audio files selected by the creator are ranked higher than the audio files not selected by the creator. A subset of the ranked audio files is selected. In another embodiment all audio files selected by first creator are selected. In another embodiment a certain number of ranked audio files are selected. Server creates a hyperlink between the first file and the subset of selected ranked audio files in the audio file storage system. The hyperlink influences future search results of the engine when the first file or any of the subset of audio files is involved. Server stores information about the subset of related audio files in a storage system . The information includes one or more of hyperlinks to the related audio files ranking of the audio files the creator of the first file and metadata of the audio files. In the described embodiments hyperlinks are references to audio files that connect the users to another audio file or a file or a portion of the audio file. In another embodiment storage system is a separate storage system. When a user selects the audio file identifier from the search results or any other listing server retrieves information about the selected ranked related audio files. In an embodiment the user is presented with a list of information about the related audio files as shown in . In one embodiment the identity of the creators who selected each audio file is revealed to the user by displaying meta data such as the creator s name address or contact information.

The list of inquiries generated by server is notified to the first creator . The list of inquiries is also notified to second creator . In the described embodiments the second creator is one or more creators other than the first creator. The first and second creators are notified electronically as described in conjunction with . Server receives responses from the first creator as well as the second creator. The response includes a selection of audio files related to the first file. In an embodiment the response includes a ranked list of the related audio files identifying the relevance of the related audio files to the first file. In an embodiment audio files are ranked based on the number of selections from the first and the second creators. In an embodiment the audio files selected by the first creator are ranked higher than the audio files selected by second creator. In another embodiment all responses are ranked with the same weight. In another embodiment a certain number of ranked audio files are selected. In another embodiment all audio files selected by the first creator and the second creator are selected.

Information about the selected ranked audio files is stored in storage system . User selection of the first file identifier from search results or any other listing is sent to server . In an embodiment server retrieves information about the selected ranked list of related audio files from the audio file storage system before presenting to the user. In one embodiment the identity of the creators who selected each audio file is revealed to the user by displaying meta data such as the creator s name address or contact information.

Second creator is notified electronically by methods discussed in conjunction with with the second list of inquiries. Server receives the second response from second creator and analyzes the second response. The second response further refines the machine generated search results. The second response includes a selection of audio files related to the first file. In an embodiment the second response includes a ranked list of the related audio files identifying the relevance of the related audio files to the first file. Server ranks a related audio file based on the number of selections from second creator. A subset of the ranked related audio files is selected. In an embodiment all audio files selected by second creator are selected. In another embodiment related audio files receiving a certain rank are selected.

In an embodiment server generates a questionnaire based on identified audio files related to the first audio . The questionnaire includes the opinion of one or more creators of the identified audio file about the selection as a related audio file to the first file. The questionnaire is notified to the creators of identified audio files . Server receives response3 from the creators of identified audio files . In an embodiment server ranks an identified web page based on the number of selections from second creator and the selection from the creator of identified audio files . A subset of the ranked related audio files is selected.

In an embodiment all audio files selected by second creator are selected for ranking. In another embodiment related audio files receiving a certain rank are selected. Information related to the selected ranked audio files is stored in storage system . In an embodiment the information related to the selected ranked audio files includes one or more of hyperlinks to the selected audio file the creator of the selected audio file the title of the selected audio file the creators the opinion of the creator of the selected audio file opinion of the creators of the first file institution of the creator the published date and the selection rank date. When a user selects the first file identifier server retrieves the information related to the selected related audio files from storage system . In several embodiments information related to the subset of selected ranked audio files is presented to the user shown in . In one embodiment the identity of the creators who selected each audio file is presented to the user by displaying meta data such as the creator s name qualifications institution affiliation address or contact information. In another embodiment information about the opinion of the creator of the selected audio file is presented to the user.

The list of inquiries is notified to the first creator . A response is received from the creator. The response includes a selection of audio files related to the first file and optionally the reason for relevancy in the creator s opinion. In an embodiment the response includes a ranked list of the related audio files identifying the relevance of the related audio files to the first file. Server ranks the related audio files based on the response from the creator. A subset of the ranked related audio files is selected. Server stores information about the subset of selected ranked audio files in a storage system . When a second search yields a plurality of search results containing the information identifying first file server retrieves the stored information about the subset of selected ranked audio files and influences the ranking of the first audio relative the search results when presenting the search results to the user. In one embodiment the identity of the creators who selected each audio file is revealed to the user by displaying meta data such as the creator s name address or contact information.

In step the server automatically generates a list of inquires based on the search results of step to access the relevancy of the search result. The list of inquiries includes questions about each related audio file. In an embodiment inquiries list the subject of one or more audio files identified in the search the date created and the search terms used to identify the audio file. Other embodiments may not list all the above items. shows an example of the list of inquiries presented to creators. In step the list of inquiries is notified to at least one creator of the first file. In the described embodiments the notification can be sent electronically by an email or message on a social network or instant message. Web based interface is another method of notifying the creator. In step method receives at least one response to the list of inquiries from the creators. The response includes a selection whether any of the audio files are relevant to the first file. In an embodiment if any of the audio files are relevant a selection of the relevant audio file and optionally the reason for the audio file being relevant are presented to the server. In an embodiment the response includes a list of the related audio files identifying the relevance of the related audio files to the first file. In step method analyzes the responses from the creators. The related audio files are ranked based on the number of selections received from the creators. A subset of the ranked related audio files is selected. In an embodiment all audio files selected by the creators are selected. In another embodiment a certain number of ranked audio files are selected. In another embodiment audio files receiving certain rank are selected. Method creates a hyperlink between the first file and the selected ranked subset of audio files. The hyperlink can influence the search results in the audio file storage system when the first file is involved. In step information about the selected ranked audio files related to the first file is stored. The information about the selected ranked audio files includes at least one of hyperlinks to the audio files in the audio file storage system the rank of each audio file in the selected subset metadata of the audio files. The information may be stored on the audio file storage system or any other storage system.

Steps are performed to generate a list of selected ranked audio files that may be more relevant than the machine generated references. In an embodiment steps are performed once. In another embodiment steps are performed at certain fixed intervals. In another embodiment events such as addition of a certain number of audio files or a manual intervention may trigger steps .

In step method receives a selection of the first file identifier or information about the first file from a user. The audio file or information about the audio file may be selected from search results or from a list of audio files. The server retrieves the stored information about the selected ranked audio files in step . In several embodiments information about the related audio files is displayed to the user in step shown in . In one embodiment the identity of the creators who selected each audio file is revealed to the user by displaying meta data such as the creator s name email address and contact information. Steps are performed when a user selects the first file for display.

In an embodiment each of the steps of method may be a distinct step. In other embodiments method may not have all of the above steps and or may have other steps in addition to or instead of those listed above. The steps of method may be performed in another order. Subsets of the steps listed above as part of method may be used to form their own method. In an embodiment there could be multiple instances of method .

In method a set of one or more audio files related to a first file is identified in step . In step a first list of inquiries about the set of audio files identified in step is generated. The first list of inquiries includes questions whether each of the identified audio files are related to the first file and optionally why they are related. In the described embodiment steps and are similar to steps and respectively. The first list of inquiries is notified to a first creator of the first file in step . A first response to the first list of inquiries is received in step . The response includes a selection of audio files related to the first file and optionally the reason for the selection. In step a second list of inquires based on the response from the first creator about the relevance of the set of audio files to the first file is generated. In an embodiment the second list of inquiries includes a list of audio files selected by the first creator for selecting audio files related to the first file. In an embodiment the second list of inquires includes questions whether the second creator agrees with the first creator. In another embodiment the second list of inquiries includes the reason for an audio file being relevant to the first file.

One or more second creator of the first file are notified with the second list of inquiries in step . In step one or more second response is received from the second creator. In an embodiment a questionnaire is generated based on the list of identified audio files in step A. The questionnaire includes whether the identified audio files are related to the first file. The questionnaire is notified to one or more creators of the plurality of identified audio files. In step B server receives response from one or more creators of the plurality of identified audio files. In step the second response from the second creator is analyzed. In an embodiment audio files are ranked based on the number of selections from the second creator. In another embodiment audio files are ranked based on the response from creators of identified audio files in addition to the response from second creator. In an embodiment the response includes identifying the relevance of the related web pages to the first file. In an embodiment the response includes identifying the relevance of the related audio files to the first file. A subset of the ranked audio files is selected. In an embodiment all audio files selected by the second creator are selected. In another embodiment a certain number of ranked audio files or audio files with a certain rank are selected. Method creates a hyperlink between the first file and the selected ranked subset of audio files. The hyperlink can influence the search results in the audio file storage system when the first file is involved. In step information about the selected ranked subset of audio files related to the first file is stored in an audio file storage system. Steps are performed to generate a list of selected ranked audio files that may be more relevant than the machine generated referenced. In an embodiment steps are performed once. In another embodiment steps are performed at certain fixed intervals. In another embodiment events such as addition of a certain number of audio files or a manual intervention may trigger steps .

In step the server receives a selection of the first file identifier. Information about the related audio files of the first file stored in a storage system is retrieved in step . Information about the list of related audio files is presented to the user in step . Steps are performed when a user selects the first file for display. Steps and are similar to steps and respectively. In an embodiment each of the steps of method may be a distinct step. In other embodiments method may not have all of the above steps and or may have other steps in addition to or instead of those listed above. The steps of method may be performed in another order. Subsets of the steps listed above as part of method may be used to form their own method. In an embodiment there could be multiple instances of method .

In step the list of inquiries is notified to one or more creators. In step method receives at least one response from the creators providing information about the relevancy of related audio files to the first file and optionally the reason for an audio file being related in the opinion of the creator. In step the related audio files are ranked based on the number of selections from the creators. In an embodiment the response includes a ranked list of the related audio files identifying the relevance of the related audio files to the first file. A subset of the ranked audio files is selected. Information related to the subset of audio files is stored in a storage system in step . Method creates a hyperlink between the first file and the selected ranked subset of audio files. The hyperlink can influence the search results in the audio file storage system when the first file is involved. Steps and may be similar to steps and . Steps are performed to generate a list of selected ranked audio files that may be more relevant than the machine generated referenced. In an embodiment steps are performed once. In another embodiment steps are performed at certain fixed intervals. In another embodiment events such as addition of a certain number of audio files or a manual intervention may trigger steps .

A second search in the audio file storage system using a search engine yields a first file and the server receives a selection of the first file identifier in step . The selection of the first file can influence the search results of future searches. The server retrieves information about the related audio files stored in step from the storage system in step . In several embodiments in step information about the related audio files is presented to the user shown in . In one embodiment the identity of the creators who selected each audio file is revealed to the user by displaying meta data such as the creator s name address or contact information. Steps and may be similar to steps and . Steps and are repeated for every search yielding the first file. In an embodiment each of the steps of method may be a distinct step. In other embodiments method may not have all of the above steps and or may have other steps in addition to or instead of those listed above. The steps of method may be performed in another order. Subsets of the steps listed above as part of method may be used to form their own method. In an embodiment there could be multiple instances of method .

One or more audio files related to a first file in the audio file storage system are identified by server or server or server . In the described embodiments the first file can reside in a creator system or in the audio file storage system or in server system . The related audio files are identified by natural language search or text analysis or from collaborative filtering or any other search techniques. In an embodiment server or or extracts noun phrases from audio files in the audio file storage system using natural language processing tools and ranks them by the number of occurrences in the audio file compared to the number of occurrences in the audio file storage system. In one embodiment server searches the audio file storage system uses iTunes Store API to automatically extract noun phrases from audio file meta data in iTunes using natural language processing tools and rank them by the number of occurrences in the meta data compared to the number of occurrences in the audio file storage system.

In an embodiment the list of inquiries generated by the system server includes one or more identified audio files related to a first file. In an embodiment the inquiries include the search terms used in a search using text analysis or collaborative filtering. In another embodiment the list of inquires includes one or more identified audio files and the noun phrases from the first file used to identify the audio files. In an embodiment the list of inquiries presented to the first creator includes one or more subjects of related of audio files the search term used to identify the related audio files the noun phrases which are validated by their presence in the hyperlinks from the first file the date created the abstract and the unique identification. The list of inquiries for the second creator is influenced by a response received from the first creator. The list of inquiries to the second creator includes one or more of the selection of related audio files by the first creator the search terms used to identify the related audio file the noun phases used in citation validation techniques and the date created. In an embodiment the list of inquiries includes one or more of the types of relationship tags of the identified audio file such as whether the identified audio file summarizes the first file contradicts the first file or complements the first file. In an embodiment a questionnaire is generated to the creators of the identified audio files. The questionnaire may contain questions whether the identified audio file is related to the first file. The list of inquires is notified electronically to one or more creators. The notification comprises at least one of an email messaging on a social network instant audio or a web based interface notification.

The related audio files are ranked based on the number of selections from the creators. In an embodiment a selection of the related audio files from each creator is ranked equally. In another embodiment selection of an audio file from the first creator receives higher ranking. In another embodiment selection of an audio file from a creator who responds to queries more often is ranked higher. In another embodiment the selection by the creator of the identified audio files is ranked higher. In another embodiment the selection of an audio file by the creator of the first creator and second creator of the audio file is ranked highest. A subset of the related audio files is selected. In an embodiment all audio files selected by the creators are selected. In another embodiment a certain number of the ranked audio files are selected. In another embodiment audio files receiving a certain rank are selected.

In an embodiment of a method of identifying audio files of an audio file storage system having relevance to a first file comprising identifying a plurality of audio files within the audio file storage system wherein the plurality of audio files each have a relationship with the first file generating by a system server a list of inquiries based on the plurality of audio files providing by the system server the list of inquiries to at least one creator of the first file receiving from the at least one creator at least one response to the list of inquiries selecting a subset of the plurality of audio files based on the at least one response storing information related to the selected subset of the plurality of audio files for access if the first file is selected. In an embodiment of a method wherein the at least one creator comprises at least one author of the first file. In an embodiment of a method further comprising generating by the system server a second list of inquiries based on the plurality of audio files providing by the system server the second list of inquiries to at least one second creator of the plurality of audio files receiving from the at least one second creator of the plurality of audio files at least one second response to the second list of inquiries re selecting the subset of the plurality of audio files based on the at least one response and the at least one second response storing information related to the re selected subset of the plurality of audio files for access if the first file is selected. In an embodiment of a method further comprising providing by the system server the selected subset of the plurality of audio files to a user that selects the first file and identifying the at least one creator to the user.

In an embodiment of a method wherein identifying the at least one creator comprises providing the user with the at least one creator s name qualifications institution affiliation address or contact information. An embodiment of a method further comprising providing by the system server the selected subset of the plurality of audio files to a user that selects the first file and identifying the at least one creator of the first file and the at least one creator of the plurality of audio files to the user wherein identifying the at least one creator comprises providing the user with the at one of a name qualifications institution affiliation address or contact information of the at least one creator shown in . An embodiment of a method further comprising providing a hyperlink between the first file and the selected subset of the plurality of audio files wherein the hyperlink influences a ranking of search results that include at least one of the first file and the plurality of audio files.

An embodiment of a method wherein the plurality of audio files are each identified by a plurality of audio object searches wherein each search identifies one of the plurality of audio files and the first file. An embodiment of a method wherein at least one of the plurality of audio object searches is refined by the at least one response. An embodiment of a method wherein at least one of the plurality of audio object searches uses a keyword search application programming interface to access audio files in the audio file storage system. An embodiment of a method wherein the list of inquiries includes search terms used in a search that identified the first file and the plurality of audio files thereby establishing a relationship between the first file and the plurality of audio files by text analysis or collaborative filtering. An embodiment of a method wherein the search terms comprise strings of words. An embodiment of a method wherein the search terms comprise noun phrases. An embodiment of a method wherein the search terms comprise creator names cited by the first file. An embodiment of a method wherein the search terms comprise a term within the first file. An embodiment of a method the search is based on at least one of a word string a creator or an image. An embodiment of a method wherein the search terms are included within text of citations of the first file.

An embodiment of a method wherein each of the plurality of audio files includes a publication date and wherein each of the publication dates is more recent than at least one of a first revision or a last revision date of the first file. An embodiment of a method wherein each of the plurality of audio files includes a publication date and wherein each of the publication dates comprise a specific date. An embodiment of a method wherein each of the plurality of audio files includes a publication date and wherein each of the publication dates comprise a date before a specific date. An embodiment of a method wherein the list of inquiries includes titles of at least a subset of the plurality of audio files. An embodiment of a method wherein the list of inquiries includes creators of at least a subset of the plurality of audio files.

An embodiment of a method wherein the at least one creator includes a first creator and a second creator and wherein the list of inquiries for the first creator is influenced by a response received from the second creator. An embodiment of a method wherein the list of inquiries includes a relationship tag between at least one of the plurality of audio files and the first file. An embodiment of a method where in the relationship tag comprises at least one question of whether the relationship of the at least one the plurality of audio files to the first file is supportive contradictory or summarizing. An embodiment of a method wherein providing the list of inquiries to the at least one creator of the first file comprises electronically communicating the list of inquires to the at least one creator using a notification. An embodiment of a method wherein the notification comprises at least one of an email messaging on a social network or instant message. An embodiment of a method wherein the notification comprises a web based interface notification. An embodiment of a method wherein receiving from the at least one creator at least one response to the list of inquiries comprises receiving a selected subset of the plurality of audio files that the at least one creator selects as being relevant to the first file.

An embodiment of a method wherein receiving from the at least one creator at least one response to the list of inquiries comprises receiving a ranked list of at least a subset of the plurality of audio files that identifies an order of relevance of the at least the subset of the plurality of audio files to the first file. An embodiment of a method further comprising providing the at least one inquiry based on one response to at least one other creator receiving from the at least one other creator at least one second response to the at least one response re selecting the subset of the plurality of audio files based on the at least one second response storing information related to the re selected subset of the plurality of audio files for access if the first file is selected. An embodiment of a method wherein the list of inquiries is provided to a plurality of creators and responses received from each of the plurality of creators are compiled for selecting the subset of the plurality of audio files. An embodiment of a method wherein a plurality of lists of inquiries are provided to a plurality of creators and responses received from each of the plurality of creators are compiled for selecting the subset of the plurality of audio files. An embodiment of a method further comprising the at least one creator having a permission to edit the first file. An embodiment of a method for a server to identify audio files having relevance to a first file comprising receiving by the server a plurality of audio files wherein the plurality of audio files were generated by a subject matter search generating by the server a list of inquiries based on the plurality of audio files providing by the server the list of inquiries to a creator of the first file wherein the first file is a one of the plurality of audio files receiving by the server from the creator at least one response to the list of inquiries selecting by the server a subset of the plurality of audio files based on the at least one response storing by the server the selected subset of the plurality of audio files for access if the first file is selected.

An embodiment of a method further comprising providing by the server the selected subset of the plurality of audio files to a user that selects the first file. An embodiment of a system for identifying audio files having relevance to a first file comprising a server configured to present on a first display a list of inquiries to an identified creator of a first file wherein the list of inquiries is based on a plurality of audio files the server configured to receive from the identified creator at least one response to the list of inquiries the server configured to select a subset of the plurality of audio files based on the at least one response a server configured to present on a second display the selected subset of the plurality of audio files to a user that selects the first file. An embodiment of a programmable storage device readable by a machine tangibly embodying a program of instructions when executed by the machine to perform a method of identifying audio files of an audio file storage system having relevance to a first file the method comprising identifying a plurality of audio files within the audio file storage system wherein the plurality of audio files each have a relationship with the first file generating by a system server a list of inquiries based on the plurality of audio files providing by the system server the list of inquiries to at least one creator of the first file receiving from the at least one creator at least one response to the list of inquiries selecting a subset of the plurality of audio files based on the at least one response storing information related to the selected subset of the plurality of audio files for access if the first file is selected.

An embodiment of a method of identifying audio files of an audio file storage system having relevance to a first file comprising identifying a plurality of audio files within the audio file storage system wherein the plurality of audio files each have a relationship with the first file generating by a system server a first list of inquiries based on the plurality of audio files providing by the system server the first list of inquiries to at least one creator of the first file receiving from the at least one creator of the plurality of audio files at least one first response to the first list of inquiries generating by the system server a second list of inquiries based on the plurality of audio files providing by the system server the second list of inquiries to at least one second creator of the plurality of audio files receiving from the at least one second creator of the plurality of audio files at least one second response to the second list of inquiries selecting a subset of the plurality of audio files based on the at least one first response and the at least one second response storing information related to the selected subset of the plurality of audio files for access if the first file is selected. An embodiment of a method wherein the at least one creator comprises at least one creator of one of the plurality of audio files. An embodiment of a method wherein the information related to the selected subset of the plurality of audio files comprises an opinion of the at least one creator of either the first file or the plurality of audio files. An embodiment of a method further comprises providing the opinion of the at least one creator to a user that selects the first file.

As shown in for the described embodiments server system includes processor system and memory system among others. Server system consists of on one or more servers connected to the network. Server system can be a single unit distributed in various locations or virtualized. Processor system may include any one of some of any combination of or all of multiple parallel processors a single processor a system of processors having one or more central processors and or one or more specialized processors dedicated to specific tasks. Also processor system may include one or more Digital Signal Processors DSPs in addition to or in place of one or more Central Processing Units CPUs and or may have one or more digital signal processing programs that run on one or more CPU.

Memory system may include for example any one of some of any combination of or all of a long term storage system such as a hard drive a short term storage system such as random access memory a removable storage system such as a floppy drive or a removable drive and or flash memory. Memory system may include one or more machine readable mediums that may store a variety of different types of information. The term machine readable medium is used to refer to any medium capable carrying information that is readable by a machine. One example of a machine readable medium is a computer readable medium.

In an embodiment memory system stores code for search engine code to identify plurality of audio files code to generate a list of inquiries and code to select rank subset of plurality of audio files . Memory system stores code for the search engine to search the audio file storage system for audio files related to a first file and return the result to server system . In the described embodiments the first file can reside in the audio file storage system or creator system or storage system for information related to selected ranked subset of audio files or memory system or any other storage system. In an embodiment the search engine searches the abstract of the transcript or the title of the transcript. In another embodiment the search engine searches the entire transcript for keywords. The results from the search engine are ranked in order of relevancy. The relevancy may be the number of times the keyword appears in the transcript and the number of hyperlinks.

The keywords for searching related audio files are supplied by the code to identify plurality of audio files . The keywords may be all of or some of frequently used noun phrases the creator of the first file the creators listed in the references cited in the first file words from the title date created words related to subject matter. Once the server receives the list of audio files related to the first file an inquiry is automatically generated by code to generate a list of inquiries questionnaire and sent to one or more creators. The list of inquiries is based on the search results. The inquiries include the relevancy of each of audio files listed as a related audio file to the first file the reason for the audio file being related to the first file. Code to select rank subset of plurality of audio files selects a subset of the audio files from search results stores information about the selected subset of audio files and provides a hyperlink between the first file and the selected subset of audio files. Selection of audio files may also include ranking the audio files based on the number of selection from the creators. In an embodiment responses from different creators can have different weight. Information related to the selected ranked subset of audio files is stored. In an embodiment the information related to the selected ranked subset of audio files is stored on a storage system for information related to selected ranked subset of audio files . In another embodiment the information related to the selected ranked subset of audio files is stored in memory system . In another embodiment the information related to the selected ranked subset of audio files is stored in the audio file storage system. In an embodiment a hyperlink is created between the first file and the selected subset of audio files. The hyperlink influences the ranking of search results by the search engine when the first file is involved.

Network is a network and or combination of networks of devices that communicate with one another within an enterprise or on the Internet. User system is a user device connected to the network . User system selects an audio file from the audio file storage system. The audio file is selected from a search result or from a listing of audio files. Audio file storage system is a shared storage system. All users can access the audio file storage system to read and in some cases contribute to the audio file storage system. Creator system is a user system in the network. The creator system has read and write access to audio files in the audio file storage system. A creator of an audio file may be a producer of the audio file the director of the audio file the transcript creator the narrator co creator of the file an expert in the subject matter or a team member.

An embodiment includes a programmable storage device such as memory system readable by a machine such as processor system tangibly embodying a program of instructions when executed by the machine to perform a method of identifying audio files of an audio file storage system having relevance to a first file. The method includes identifying a plurality of audio files within the audio file storage system wherein the plurality of audio files each have a relationship with the first file wherein the audio file storage system provides a platform for storing and sharing audio files and wherein each audio file includes an audio and associated information. The method further includes generating by a system server a list of inquiries based on the plurality of audio files providing by the system server the list of inquiries to at least one creator of the first file receiving from the at least one creator at least one response to the list of inquiries selecting a subset of the plurality of audio files based on the at least one response and storing information related to the selected subset of the plurality of audio files for access if the first file is selected.

Although specific embodiments have been described and illustrated the described embodiments are not to be limited to the specific forms or arrangements of parts so described and illustrated.

