---

title: System and method for automatic document management
abstract: A system for managing documents, comprising: interfaces to a user interface, proving an application programming interface, a database of document images, a remote server, configured to communicate a text representation of the document from the optical character recognition engine to the report server, and to receive from the remote server a classification of the document; and logic configured to receive commands from the user interface, and to apply the classifications received from the remote server to the document images through the interface to the database. A corresponding method is also provided.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08996350&OS=08996350&RS=08996350
owner: Dub Software Group, Inc.
number: 08996350
owner_city: Hartsdale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121102
---
The present application is a non provisional of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 554 554 filed Nov. 2 2011 the entirety of which is expressly incorporated herein by reference.

Classification of textual documents denotes assigning an unknown document to one of predefined classes. This is a straightforward concept from pattern recognition or from supervised machine learning. It implies the existence of a labeled training data set a way to represent the documents and a statistical classifier trained using the chosen representation of the training set. See K Torkkola Discriminative features for text document classification in Pattern Analysis Applications Springer 2004 .

Linear Discriminant Analysis LDA may be applied to document classification when vector space document representations are employed. LDA is a well known method in statistical pattern recognition literature. Its aim is to learn a discriminative transformation matrix from the original high dimensional space to a desired dimensionality 11 . The idea is to project the documents into a low dimensional space in which the classes are well separated. This can also be viewed as extracting features that only carry information pertinent to the classification task.

A known prior technique provides a vectorial text document representation based on the so called bag of words approach in which each document is essentially represented as a histogram of terms or as a function of the histogram. One straightforward function is normalization the histograms are divided by the number of terms of the document to account for different document lengths. Terms words that occur in every document obviously do not convey much useful information for classification. Same applies to rare terms that are found only in a few documents. These as well as common stop words are usually filtered out of the corpus. Furthermore the words may be stemmed. These operations leave a term dictionary that can range in size from thousands to tens of thousands. Correspondingly this is the dimension of the space in which documents now are represented as vectors. Although the dimension may be high a characteristic of this representation is that the vectors are sparse. For many statistical pattern classification methods this dimensionality may be too high. Thus dimension reduction methods are called for. Two possibilities exist either selecting a subset of the original features or transforming the features or combinations into derivative features.

Optimal feature selection coupled with a pattern recognition system leads to a combinatorial problem since all combinations of available features need to be evaluated by actually training and evaluating a classifier. This is called the wrapper configuration 21 24 . Obviously the wrapper strategy does not allow learning of parametric feature transforms such as linear projections because all possible transforms cannot be enumerated. Another approach is to evaluate some criterion related to the final classification error that would reflect the importance of a feature or a number of features jointly. This is called the filter configuration in feature selection 21 24 . An optimal criterion would normally reflect the classification error rate. Approximations to the Bayes error rate can be used based on Bhattacharyya bound or an interclass divergence criterion. However these joint criteria are usually accompanied by a parametric such as Gaussian estimation of the multivariate densities at hand 13 29 and are characterized by heavy computational demands.

In document classification problems the dominant approach has been sequential greedy selection using various different criteria 33 4 25 . This is dictated by the sheer dimensionality of the document term representation. However greedy algorithms based on sequential feature selection using any criterion are suboptimal because they fail to find a feature set that would jointly optimize the criterion. For example two features might both be very highly ranked by the criterion but they may carry the same exact information about class discrimination and are thus redundant. Thus feature selection through any joint criteria such as the actual classification error leads to a combinatorial explosion in computation. For this very reason finding a transform to lower dimensions might be easier than selecting features given an appropriate objective function.

One well known dimension reducing transform is the principal component analysis PCA also called Karhunen Loeve transform. PCA seeks to optimally represent the data in a lower dimensional space in the mean squared error sense. The transform is derived from the eigenvectors corresponding to the largest eigenvalues of the covariance matrix of training data. In the information retrieval community this method has been named Latent Semantic Indexing or LSI 7 . The covariance matrix of data in PCA corresponds now to the document term matrix multiplied by its transpose. Entries in the covariance matrix represent co occurring terms in the documents. Eigenvectors of this matrix corresponding to the dominant eigenvalues are directions related to dominant combinations of terms occurring in the corpus. These dominant combinations can be called topics or semantic concepts . A transform matrix constructed from these eigenvectors projects a document onto these latent semantic concepts and the new low dimensional representation consists of the magnitudes of these projections. The eigenanalysis can be computed efficiently by a sparse variant of singular value decomposition of the document term matrix 7 1 . LSI was introduced to improve precision recall and it is useful in various information retrieval tasks. However it is not an optimal representation for classification. LSI PCA is completely unsupervised that is it pays no attention to the class labels of the existing training data. LSI aims at optimal representation of the original data in the lower dimensional space in the mean squared error sense. This representation has nothing to do with the optimal discrimination of the document classes.

Independent component analysis ICA has also been proposed as a tool to find interesting projections of the data 12 32 20 . Girolami et al. maximize negentropy to find a subspace on which the data has the least Gaussian projection 12 . The criterion corresponds to finding a clustered structure in the data and bears a close relationship to projection pursuit methods 10 . This appears to be a very useful tool revealing non Gaussian structures in the data. However as PCA the method is completely unsupervised with regard to the class labels of the data and it is not able to enhance class separability.

Sammon mapping 28 multidimensional scaling MDS 22 and FastMap 9 are examples of further methods that map data points into a lower dimensional space trying to preserve the mutual distances in the original high dimensional space. These methods pay no attention to class labels either only to the goodness of the representation. Thus supervised feature extraction schemes are called for.

Linear discriminant analysis LDA refers to two distinct but related methods. The first is classifier design. Given a number of variables as the data representation each class is modeled as Gaussian with a covariance matrix and a mean vector . Observations are now classified to the class of the nearest mean vector according to Mahalanobis distance. The decision surfaces between classes become linear if the classes have a shared covariance matrix. In this case the decision surfaces are called Fisher discriminants and the procedure of constructing them is called Linear Discriminant Analysis 11 2 . The second use of the term LDA refers to a discriminative feature transform that is optimal for certain cases 11 . The relation to LDA as a classifier design is that these eigenvectors span the same space as directions orthogonal to the decision surfaces of Fisher discriminants. One high barrier in applying LDA directly to document term data is the computational complexity of the processing.

The present technology provides a supervised document classification algorithm implemented by a programmable processor which employs alphanumeric strings typically extracted from documents which begin and end along word boundaries. A string may be a single word or a plurality of words. As each new document is added to the library the classifier algorithm is executed. If the classification is not deemed reliable a user is prompted to manually classify the document and the training data used to adaptively improve the algorithm. If the document fits well within the existing classes it is automatically classified and the algorithm updated based on the new document.

A determination of reliability of classification may be statistical that is if the strings and or characteristics of the document occur commonly within a single classification and uncommonly within documents having different classifications then the classification according to that string or characteristic is deemed reliable and an automated classification takes place. On the other hand if none of the available strings and or characteristics has significant probative power for any existing classification then the user is prompted to classify the document and the resulting classification is then populated with the characteristic strings and or characteristics of the document. In some cases users may accidentally or intentionally establish redundant document classifications. That is the same document or substantially identical is sought to be classified in multiple classes. In that case the system may prompt the user regarding the issue or automatically generate an alias which can then be used to handle the ambiguity. Indeed the classification may be user specific such that each user may have a private or customized classification. In general the classification will be objective and consistent across users and the classification unambiguous such that inconsistencies are resolved at the time the document is being entered.

A newly received document is scanned and optically character recognized OCR . Documents from other sources may also be integrated such as fax email word processing format and archive. The OCRed document is then parsed on word boundaries and then all of the single words and strings of words up to for example 256 characters are then indexed. The strings may be processed to eliminate spaces and or stop words. Indexed strings are then compared to lists which provide exclusions of strings that are common. For example the word the alone would likely not result in important classification power between different classes and thus may be excluded from the analytics. Even if a string is present in many different classes so long as it is not present in certain classes it has distinctive power. On the other hand if the string is unreliably present in any class and unreliably absent in any class then it has low distinctive power. Through string analysis a statistical classification system may be implemented with tunable rules. That is if and when errors are encountered the particular strings that caused the mis classification analyzed e.g. by a person and the rules altered to achieve the correct result. Therefore this technique has at least this advantage over a purely statistical technique and also might have superior performance and computational efficiency. It is noted that document structure or characteristics other that strings may also be treated similarly. That is the characteristics of the document are coded in an ordered manner and the codes compared to codes for other documents. This allows document formatting to serve as a basis for classification.

Typically the algorithm proceeds without semantic analysis or processing other than word boundaries though it is also possible to employ known semantic techniques to supplement the basic classification task.

Because the classifier typically operates on strings that may include a plurality of words the classifier has capability to readily classify forms and other structured document which may have relatively unique features or sets of features i.e. signatures or fingerprints as compared to other forms or structured documents or unstructured documents. In a trivial case a form may have a unique form number provided on a page which can readily be extracted and compared to the classification criteria. Because a plurality of features are typically available to discriminate between classes the present technique would typically not misclassify a document that mentions a form identifier.

Thus a single signature may be present in multiple classes of documents and likewise no single signature need be present in all examples of a single class. Again taking a trivial example if a form identifier were missing from its normal place on a form that would not preclude proper classification however if the deviations from the normal discriminants of the class is significant a manual confirmation may be requested.

It has been found that for clean scanned and optical character recognized documents representing different electronic health record documents a class of documents may be defined based on 3 4 examples with reasonable reliability. Note that the technique typically operates on documents having an implicit structure to determine whether they reside within a respective class or are not reliably classified at all and only in rarer instances is the classification competitive between different classes. If the classification system determines that the classification between various competing classes is unreliable it will seek manual training which will then provide additional training data for the respective task.

Another aspect of the technology provides a distributed architecture such as a cloud computing architecture for implementing the classification task. This provides at least two advantages. First the classification may be performed based on data from a plurality of users thus potentially reducing the individual burdens and second the classification processing task may be performed by hardware well suited to the task which is statistically multiplexed between various users.

In order to provide this distributed approach which may be a client server or cloud architecture a user typically acquires one or more new documents which may be derived from an image scanner the images then being analyzed by optical character recognition. The present technology does not require and typically does not rely on zonal recognition of the documents though document layout information need not be ignored. The document text or extracted signatures are then conveyed to the server. By transmitting only signatures security risks are reduced. Indeed it is possible to mask or eliminate at the client side various types of personal information since such information may be unnecessary for the classification task. Therefore the client system may employ a dictionary and recognize proper nouns personal identifiers and the like. These may be substituted with a generic identifier or token and provided within an extracted signature. Thus implemented the communication to the server may be implemented without leaking sensitive information in a scrubbing process that occurs independent of the classification.

In order to secure communications strings may be compressed and encrypted or encapsulated within an encrypted communications stream such as SSL TLS or the like. In general the strings may be padded to a uniform minimum size and communicated to a server. The server may then search against an encrypted index thus preserving privacy. This permits the server to operate outside of a firewall with relatively low leakage of private information.

Once the document is classified at the server the classification may be returned to the client. If the entire text of the document is conveyed to the server then the server may return a completely processed document. The document may be scrubbed or tokenized at the client.

For example if the document is a medical report patient name identifier s and other information may be replaced with alternate token strings such as NameA74E0B12 which convey the same document organization for classification purposes but anonymize the document. After processing the server classifies the document and returns information about the structure of the document. For example the client system may not distinguish between patient name doctor name and referring physician name. However in the returned classification information a template is provided which identifies a role or meaning of the respective tokens. The client system then reverses the tokenization and may store the identified fields in a database generally along with the full text of the document which may be useful for unstructured searching or reclassification adaptive classification updates. The server system may also retain a copy of the text which may be scrubbed for updating its algorithms.

Typically the signatures normally employed are those which provide statistically reliable discriminative power. Other signatures which fail to improve performance may be dropped. However when a new document which is statistically marginal for a reliable classification is encountered the system may access previously classified documents especially those associated with training data to recalculate the appropriate signatures for use.

Because of the relative advantages of a distributed architecture over a self contained system an advantageous business model for monetization of the technology becomes apparent. That is the system may operate on a subscription or resource usage basis rather than a more traditional software license basis. Indeed in some cases the client software may be a browser such as an HTML 5 compliant browser operating directly or in conjunction with a local server to provide database and application support. Further the client system may be a tablet or smartphone type system e.g. Apple iOS6 iOS5 Google Android 4.2 4.1 Microsoft Windows 7 or 8 employing a camera e.g. 8 megapixel CMOS in the device as a document scanner.

Another advantage of the present architecture is that it may provide a hybrid architecture interfacing a proprietary document or record management system such as traditional electronic health record software with automated document capture and classification. Thus the server or cloud may return data to the client as an XML file which may then be received using an XML data import facility into the proprietary system. In this case a user need not replace an existing system which does not provide support for document classification and further provides a roadmap toward portability to new architectures since the server or cloud system may maintain the XML files in some cases in encrypted secure form for input into a successor system. The XML files for example contain the full text of the file perhaps with scrubbing anonymization tokenization the document classification an identification of a structure template or the template itself and extracted structures of the document identified as relevant fields.

In an embodiment one or more documents are scanned and converted into one or more electronic files such as to TIFF PDF or other suitable format. The document s may be thereafter translated into text such as by optical character recognition OCR or other suitable way. In an embodiment no OCR rubberbanding as known in the art is performed which relies on performing OCR on a particular location in a plurality of documents where the same or similar kinds of information are believed to be. OCR rubberbanding may be useful for use with structured forms which have a consistent layout but believed by the inventors to be significantly less helpful for unstructured or semi structured documents in which information is provided in potentially inconsistent ways and places.

In accordance with an embodiment documents are scanned and submitted to an information processor to be included in a sample and have not been identified or classified by the user or the system. A data entry display form may be provided to a user to make selections and or enter data to identify the type of document s i.e. to define a document type including for future classification of documents of the same or similar document type.

In an embodiment after the user has classified the document s instructions may be executed by an information processor that enable the processor to identify similar document types in the future without requiring a user to submit information such as in a data entry display screen to classify the document. In an embodiment one or ore more words are identified in the document s that provide some representation of the document type. Referred herein to generally as a phrase the words are used at least partially for future automated classification of one or more documents. In an embodiment a plurality of words in a phrase may be contiguous in the document s which may increase the accuracy of determining the document type.

In addition a determination may be made that one or more phrases collectively represent a given document type. Referred herein to generally as a fingerprint the fingerprint s are associated with a respective document type and also used at least partially for future automated classification of one or more documents. A single fingerprint may include hundreds of phrases. Moreover phrases may be further classified to have greater or lesser significance for example and assigned a weight value such as to represent a relative likelihood that a document containing the phrase is of a particular type. In an embodiment the size of the fingerprint may be assessed as having greater or lesser significance in connection with determining a document type. For example a large sized fingerprint e.g. including many phrases may be weighted more heavily than a small sized fingerprint. Some words and or phrases may be unique to a particular document type and are particularly helpful during document type determination. Such words may be referred to herein generally as unique phrases. 

In an embodiment a matching process may be performed that matches words in a document found in one or more phrases and or one or more fingerprints. Moreover a plurality of fingerprints may be referenced for example during a matching process to determine a document type. In an embodiment fingerprints and or phrases are stored in one or more databases for future reference such as for a document type identification process.

In an embodiment a document type is based at least on a positive data analysis in which a high percentage matching of words in a document to words in one or more phrases and or fingerprints is determined. The words in a document are searched for in one or more of a plurality of fingerprints that are stored in a database s and a determination of a percentage value representing successful matching may be calculated and used in a document type assessment process. In an embodiment a set of fingerprints is defined as meeting at least a minimal threshold of acceptance and accordingly possibly representing a respective document type.

Occasionally during a process of determining a respective document s document type two or more matching fingerprints are identified e.g. based at least on a percentage of words that match the fingerprints that represent different document types. For example one fingerprint may represent a legal contract and another fingerprint may represent a legal memorandum. In such case a further determination e.g. a secondary selection process may be made to identify the correct document type for example by selecting one of the fingerprints for identifying the document type. The secondary selection process may be based on several factors such as by evaluating the percentage of matched words in the document with words in the respective fingerprints as well as by evaluating relative weight values in the phrases and or fingerprints and corresponding matching words in the document including for example whether any unique phrases have been identified in the fingerprints and or phrases. Moreover a new fingerprint may be defined following this secondary selection process that represents a plurality of fingerprints used to represent a particular document type.

Thus in the event that during a document type determination process more than one possible document type is identified for a given document a secondary analysis may occur that evaluates for example the percentage of matched words in the document with words in one or more phrases and or fingerprints the relative sizes of the fingerprints and or the existence of any unique phrase in the match.

Occasionally a determination of a respective document type is not made successfully after the system evaluates the document substantially as described above. In such case one or more data entry display screens may be provided to a user to identify the document type. In an embodiment one or more images of the respective document s is displayed to the user for the user to identify the documents. Such images may be provided in a form of one or more selectable watermarks which improves the interface and ability for users to make selections such as via graphical screen controls that are not part of the documents per se. A document that is not successfully identified by type following an automated process e.g. substantially as described above may be treated as a sample and may be used for additional learning by the system for future document type analysis. A new fingerprint may be defined and that is based following the user s submission s which may be an aggregate of new information following the user s submission s with one or more previous fingerprints or may be an entirely new fingerprint. Thus when documents are received by an information processor processed and thereafter misidentified or not identified information is received from a user who identifies the document. The document is effectively treated as a new sample such as described above and usable for generating one or more new fingerprints.

In accordance with an embodiment and when no user intervention is required due to successful document type identification additional procedures may be implemented to improve document type analysis and identification. For example one or more fingerprints used to identify a particular document type may be evaluated for determining whether unnecessary or otherwise superfluous phrase s are included therein. The result of the evaluation may be that a new fingerprint is defined that is smaller e.g. more lean than the previous fingerprint which may improve system performance e.g. speed without sacrificing accuracy. Alternatively a fingerprint may be modified without generating a new fingerprint for example by removing one or more phrases therefrom. Yet further alternatively a new fingerprint may be defined or a fingerprint may be modified that includes new phrase s e.g. is larger in order to improve accuracy. By evaluating modifying and or creating fingerprints and or phrases even following successful document type identification the systems and methods disclosed herein provide improved accuracy and performance.

Occasionally documents are received by an information processor that have one or more imperfections that may impact negatively the OCR and or document type identification processes. For example documents may have blemishes e.g. streaks from facsimile machines coffee stains or other issues may not be scanned in straight line orientation e.g. be tilted to one side or may have graphical artifacts e.g. resulting from a low resolution and or magnification . In such cases a new fingerprint may be defined which has fewer phrases even though such fingerprint may result in a potential lesser degree of accuracy. Although one fingerprint may be weakened e.g. may include fewer phrases including for example unique phrases other fingerprints and or phrases will be relied upon to identify the document type and eliminate user intervention. In this way a plurality of fingerprints including one or more fingerprints that may have lesser strength than others are referenced and relied upon to identify a particular document type. This may be further provided as a function of consistent application of such fingerprints after one or more respective documents are identified by the information processor as having some imperfection such as described above.

Thus and in accordance with the teachings herein the present application includes systems and methods for scanning and or using scanned documents which may be structured or unstructured and or semi structured recognizing the documents and generating and storing data captured therefrom for targets. In an embodiment one or more features may be integrated in a sort of engine to facilitate task s that would otherwise require labor intensive practices such as by naming files identifying content in scanned materials or the like.

In one embodiment a user access a graphical user interface e.g. a front end to select one or more of a file folder or other location on a computing device select files e.g. TIFF PDF or other suitable formatted files and selects an option to perform analysis such as shown and described herein. Processing may occur locally e.g. on one or more computing devices located at the user s site and or behind the user s firewall s or may occur remotely such as on one or more computing devices accessible via a communication network and during a secure communication session. In an embodiment SAS programs are implemented to provide statistical analysis data management and other computing functionality. In addition one or more SQL databases may be implemented for data storage and retrieval. Furthermore programming routines may be implemented for normalizing data in accordance with SQL database structures and for sending and receiving information to and from respective devices associated with the present application.

A preferred implementation provides a user interface component UI which communicates with a local server C server that is a logical and or physical system that has a high bandwidth low latency communication path with the user interface and which supports an application programming interface for communicating with the UI as well as performing other functions. The C server in turn communicates with a remote application server A server which provides certain functionality. In this case the A server provides classification and indexing support for the C server and indeed can support a plurality of C servers concurrently. Typically there is only a single A server however the A server can be distributed and or redundant. In some cases multiple specialized A servers may be provided.

The A server maintains an index of classification characteristics of documents and may be manually administered to improve classification accuracy and performance and to address exceptions and persistent errors. This management function gains from centralization because novel classification issues for each C server may not be novel for the A server and sparse data from a plurality of C servers may be sufficient to form a reliable basis for classification.

It is noted that generally the classification of a document is intrinsic and the information leakage from one C server to another due to the A server and its processing is principally the fact that a document type is previously known. In many cases this type of leakage does not present a problem. In cases where leakage is unacceptable the A server may execute within the firewall of the C server or remotely as a private or virtual private machine and thus isolate the data and communications of the respective C server from other C servers.

In some cases the document classification strings and or documents are private and therefore the A server must be private.

The client software is the primary user interface software and performs functions including but not limited to 1 file intake management system 2 sending work e.g. documents tasks to local the C Server for processing 3 manages document s and target data 4 reviewing and filing document s auto identified by the A Server 5 correcting and identifying A Server exceptions 6 document and data searching facilities 7 Printing and emailing electronic communications of document s and 8 system setup and definition s . The client software may be browser based e.g. HTML5 but is preferably a native application executing directly under the operating system of the platform on which it resides. While the client software provides user interface functionality it typically does not perform sophisticated processing of information and communicates through a client software API with the C server. Communications terminating at the A server are typically conducted through the C server. However the client software may include additional functionality that provides functions which need not pass through the C server. For example file management generic document browsing email IMAP POP3 SMTP word processing messaging etc. may be provided as separate and distinct functions.

 Work which is part of the workflow handled by the system includes but is not limited to 1 scanning paper pages into image files 2 intake of preexisting files resident on networked station s or server s 3 scheduling and pacing of bulk transfer of files from designated directories and 4 importing of files and data from foreign software systems.

The C Server is the client server performs functions including but not limited to 1 communicating with the client software through the client software API 2 hosting a repository for document and target information 3 performing or controlling Optical Character Recognition OCR and other document processing tasks such as translation format extraction remote lookup e.g. extracting portions of the document for search through Internet search engines or other remote resources spell checking and aliasing of words likely to be misspelled etc. 4 Management and synchronization of data exchanges with the A Server 5 interfacing with an Electronic Medical Records EMR system 6 interfacing with other foreign software database systems. The C server therefore provides the main logic and operational capabilities of the system with the exception of document classification and other functions which are offloaded from or controlled by the C server. Typically the C server and A server are collaborative and have a specialized communication protocol however it is possible to provide a generic C server API which allows different A servers and other servers and or resources to communicate with the C server and hence the client user interface software.

The C server may also implement certain firewall and data security rules. That is in a controlled environment the client user interface software may be the only user interface software available for the user or at least the only interface to external e.g. Internet communications. Therefore the C server is well placed to implement and enforce rules regarding data privacy such as limiting external communications of private data such as medical records to communications conducted with the A server over a secure channel such as virtual private network VPN . These rules may in turn be centrally managed by the A server. The C server may also implement user authentication and verification logging and identity and or role based access to information. In some cases a user may have privileges to use the client user interface software and control the operation of the system but insufficient privileges to view certain documents. Therefore the C server may redirect some tasks requiring a higher or different privilege level to an appropriately privileged user. This in turn permits use of relatively unprivileged and perhaps less expensive labor for some tasks and automatically invoking use of appropriately privileged users on an as needed basis. This work sharing protocol also permits monitoring by a supervisor or trainer. In some cases the C server may automatically redact a document so that the remaining information is available to the user in manty cases the redacted document will contain sufficient information to permit completion of the task so that elevation is not required.

The A sever or Automation Server which permits operation in a Software as a Service mode performs functions including but not limited to 1 Receiving single or batches of pages from the C Server 2 derives document type fingerprint s from manually identified document samples 3 manages and synchronizes data exchanges with the C Servers 4 applies fingerprint matching algorithm s to potentially identify document s 5 applies target matching algorithm s to potentially identify target s linked to each document and 6 transmits results to the respective C Server. The A server may be managed by a super user or administrator and thus may support a special interface for those functions. Alternately the super user or administrator may have a direct interface to the underlying databases and logs that does not require access through the A server.

The A server receives documents and extracts fingerprints or characteristic features from the documents. These fingerprints are then matched to an index using crisp and or fuzzy tolerant to small differences typically on using statistical processing to determine a quality of match matching and the classification returned to the C server. The A server typically retains the source documents only for a short time in order to facilitate management functions but the A server is not typically intended as an archival storage facility though this function may of course be implemented . Indeed in some implementations the fingerprints of the documents are extracted at the C server and therefore the A server does not have access to the documents as a whole.

Assuming a comprehensive workflow involving the A server the A server can implement various practice statistics and reporting functions. Thus assuming all medical notes are presented to the A server and the A server properly classifies these according to the required categories the A server may be able to provide support for automated billing of patients or third party payors TPP in a clinical case setting. Likewise the system could route requests for authorization where necessary to TPP. While similar functions might be implemented by the C server as well the server provides an opportunity to centralize practice policies and communications rather than at a user level and the A server given its higher level of management could better implement dynamically changing rules and policies of various TPPs. For example if a TPP requires a new distinction be made changing the classifications of one or more document types the A server may be modified to implement this change without requiring update of all of the C servers. In some cases the change can be implemented without full retaining e.g. a rule implemented based on a word or phrase than can readily reclassify documents previously encountered or may require retaining by presenting docunents subject to the reclassification to users as they are encountered.

It is therefore an object to provide a system for managing documents comprising an interface to a user interface providing an application programming interface an interface to a database of document images having an index of semantic content of the documents in the database at least one of an interface to an optical character recognition engine and an optical character recognition engine an interface to a remote server configured to communicate a representation of the document from the optical character recognition engine to the remote server and to receive from the remote server a classification of the document and logic configured to receive commands from the user interface and to apply the classifications received from the remote server to the document images through the interface to the database.

It is also an object to provide a system for managing documents comprising an interface to a user interface providing an application programming interface an interface to a database of documents having an index of content of the documents in the database at least one of an interface to document analysis engine and a document analysis engine which extracts content features from each respective document an interface to a remote server configured to communicate the extracted content features from the document analysis engine to the remote server and to receive from the remote server a classification of the document in dependence on the extracted content features and a set of classification categories defined by a user and logic configured to authenticate a user receive commands from the user interface to receive the user defined classification categories and to apply the classifications received from the remote server to the documents through the interface to the database.

The logic may further define a task for execution by the user interface selectively dependent on a content of a respective document.

The logic may be further configured to access a document archive for reprocessing of a set of documents in the document archive according to an updated classification.

The logic may be further configured to access a document archive for processing a set of documents in the document archive according to a set of classifications.

The remote server may persistently store a set of classification characteristics and the logic may be further configured to reset the persistently stored set of classification characteristics.

Each document may have at least one target and the interface to the remote server may be configured to receive from the remote server the at least one target for the document.

The optical character recognition engine may operate on set of images prior to adding a batch of the images and their respective optical recognition engine output to the database.

The document analysis engine may comprise an optical character recognition engine. The document analysis engine may operate on a set of documents or portions of documents prior to adding a batch of the documents or portions of the documents to the database.

Each document may have a provenance representing a source batch of page images and an place within a sequence of the batch of page images wherein the provenance is stored in the database in association with a respective document.

Each document may have a provenance representing a source of the document and an association of the document with documents having the same source wherein the provenance is stored in the database in association with a respective document.

A further objet provides a method for managing documents comprising providing an application programming interface to a user interface system providing a database of documents having an index of content of the documents in the database providing an interface to receive content features from a document analysis engine from each respective document communicating the extracted content features from the document analysis engine to a remote server receiving from the remote server a classification of the document in dependence on the extracted content features and a set of classification categories defined by a user authenticating a user receiving commands from the user interface receiving the user defined classification categories and applying the classifications received from the remote server to the documents through the interface to the database.

The method may further comprise accessing a document archive for at least one of reprocessing of a set of documents in the document archive according to an updated classification and processing a set of documents in the document archive according to a set of classifications.

Each document may have at least one target the method further comprising receiving from the remote server the at least one target for the document.

A batch is a grouping of pages that may be 1 Unsorted 2 Untagged and or 3 Unseparated. Page is a collection of words including all alphanumeric sequences. A document is a span of consecutive and or interrelated pages. A Document Type is a user assigned name or other persistent classification for a set of similar documents. A Target is a person company account or subject topic. A cabinet is a user configurable presentation of stored documents including but not limited to 1 a hierarchical tree view 2 user defined nodes folders or 3 a user defined document captions titles. A fingerprint phrase or word is a unique collection of phrases found to be common in a set of similar documents. Phrase is a collection of contiguous words. A word is a collection of contiguous alphanumeric characters.

A typical user input station includes a document scanner which for example scans pages and forwards TIFF tagged image file format or PDF Adobe page description format files by FTP to a networked FTP server. In the scanner pages batches are stacked on a scanner s input tray. According to a preferred embodiment there is no need for sorting by document type and document target s such as patients customers clients etc. Blank separator pages and identifying barcodes are also not needed. Of course these may be employed.

Using the Add transaction users browse to directories consisting of TIFF PDF images using the client user interface software. Specific files are selected for transfer into the system or a directory can be selected for a batched transfer of its subordinate files. The process can be pre scheduled to operate at specific hours when high network traffic is not detrimental to normal office work. Additional tools are available to pace high volume transfers.

The initial process at the C Server queues batches for OCR processing which is hosted on the C Server. The user can transaction monitor progress of queued jobs through the client user interface software. At the end of OCR processing text data representing each page is sent over a private network VPN or the web to the SaaS Operations Center i.e. the A server discussed above.

The automatically performed process at the A Server provides simple interfaces for users to name a few initial samples of each Document Type. No additional interactions are typically required between users and the automation process except to override automated decisions on rare occasions and when needing to refine particular Document Type definitions. The automation process itself is self tending and adaptive in both its thresholds and sensitivity to most changes experienced with documents. Such changes might include 1 updates and new versions of existing documents 2 physical differences routinely experienced in unstructured documents both in content and number of pages and 3 anomalous behavior of scanning equipment and OCR software.

The system does not typically utilize zone OCR techniques nor does it require the presence of separator pages. The automation algorithms utilize a stochastic process of iterative data reduction to build each page s candidacy for matching a known Document Type. Successive pages are assembled into coherent potential documents that also satisfy first and last page requirements. Sliding computational certainty thresholds are applied to each candidate document with iterative comparison to all others. Finally documents are tagged with their Document Type identities.

Each identified document undergoes a deterministic process of locating data that can be verified as known target s such as client s customer s account s company patient s responsible physician s etc. The process is iterated in order to locate multiple targets that may belong to a variety of target categories. Each document is tagged with its appropriate target s .

The A Server retains in its Universal Document Library UDL copies of Document Type models established at various C Server sites filtering out non unique duplications. As the UDL grows the odds increase dramatically for widely used documents to be fully recognized upon the processing of their very first sample.

Messages composed of full or partial identities for assembled and tagged documents are sent back to the C Server for further processing. Unidentified pages are reported as unknown in the returned data.

The A Server tracks the performance of its own automation processes as well as incidents of user overrides. This data is used to refine its automation algorithms as well as to advise users about incidents of inappropriate identity assignments.

After the A server returns messages to the C server in full EDM installations batches previously sent for A server automation processing are reactivated once their identities are returned from the A Server. Processed batches are presented to users along with batch statistics. Thus the message from the A server recalls a context at the C server. Pages that were successfully assembled into documents are viewable by users along with their Document Types and filing destinations targets aided by status flags and color indicators. High confidence Document Types may be auto filed if they were administratively selected for Unattended Filing. They will exhibit a blue FILED status indicator. Those presented for user review approval will show a COMPLETE status in green. Documents requiring the user intervention to assign their Document Types and or Target s will display in orange. Unidentified pages will be colored red. They are assembled into documents and identified by users. The manual assembly and identification may be due to 1 potential document was not yet seen on the system 2 the samples processed by the A Server are insufficient for reliable automation and 3 either the original document was defective or the OCR process failed to yield sufficient and unambiguous data. For all manually identified documents and for those where users chose to override the automation process with their own definitions the corresponding pages are automatically resubmitted to the A Server for evaluation and continued learning of the indicated Document Type.

Alternately processing may be resumed at the C Server which is in this case acting as a front end interface to an EMR or a separate EDM System and the processing steps specified above in the full EDM system installation apply except for the physical document filing process. Instead of filing under the C Server control the system will deliver to the associated EMR or external EDM system all processed images and corresponding identifying data. The receiving system will utilize the images and data to support its own filing and access needs.

The C server may interact with an electronic medical record EMR system and index documents from the EMR and or enter documents into the EMR system e.g. for archiving. Thus for example copies of images lab tests radiology reports etc. and self generated documents provider notes letters prescriptions etc. are sent from an EMR system to the present system for identification and filing.

If no potential fingerprint phrases exist then an empty batch document object is initialized for return to the C server . If the C server side connection is not active the message is dropped otherwise the batch document object is communicated back to the C server for local processing .

The user interface is provided is for example a native Windows 7 compliant application using the dot net .NET platform windows communication foundation WCF windows presentation foundation WPF . The user interface provides a set of windows for example an intake screen which monitors incoming documents or batches of documents and indicates its progress though automated tasks such as the classification.

Another window provided is the sender window which for example allows the user to control sending documents of any format to the C server for preprocessing image deskewing despeckling other image enhancement as might be necessary forming a batch from multiple documents of the same or different document type. The sender also provides a preview function to permit the user to view the document s to be sent to the C server and also provides ability to pace and schedule submissions to the C server to thus permit administration of workloads and workflows.

The sender window can send files to user specific or function specific designated data zones which can be for example an indication of security status privacy flags data partitioning workflow delineation etc.

The client user interface software may provide a generic communication function for interaction with other systems and which may include both input and output functions controlled through a window that permits communication of data with external processes. This function is managed by the client user interface software but implemented by the C server typically without having data pass through the user interface component in such as TCP IP communications XML ODBC SOAP and RPC. On the other hand in some cases communication can be to or through the client user interface software for example with a local file system USB drive or DVD R or using OLE COM or other data feeds.

One task that may be desired is migrating archival or external databases into the C server database. A function may be provided in the sender to access these documents and present these to the C server. Alternately the client software may provide a configuration file or command to the C server for automated processing without requiring these documents to pass through the client software. In either case the C server will generally give preference to processing new documents from the sender and not to the external workflows.

The sender provides an important but optional functionality for the client software and may be separately licensed and or enabled. The client software may thus be usable in a data search and retrieval only mode or a create and consume mode.

The C server can directly synchronize with another system to acquire documents input through the other system. The client user interface software is still used to classify documents to search and retrieve documents to otherwise interact with the A server and to provide ancillary functionality. The client software in some cases can act as an add on or add in to another document management system. The interaction may be tightly coupled or non cooperative.

In some cases documents are placed in a directory structure or other simple database e.g. an email type archive by a separate document management system. The client user interface software or C server can monitor this directory structure or simple database to concurrently input these new documents into the C server database.

Further a window may be provided for pending user intervention i.e. messages or tasks that require the user to provide input to permit completion of processing. The pending window shows jobs that require confirmation before filing or are incomplete or unidentifiable from the automation process of the server. Typically the operation of the A server is not in real time with respect to the user interface software so the pending jobs are delayed with respect to original user inputs for those jobs.

A window showing complete jobs representing documents or batches of documents that are completely filed and are thus available for search and retrieval is also provided. This window and other windows within the client user interface software provides an ability for a user to review historical information such as jobs submitted and or completed within a given date range.

The intake monitoring which encompasses the sender pending and complete processes are preferably subject to data zone partitioning and thus may be separately filterable and controllable on that basis.

A view window is provided which provides a method of presenting a directory or group of documents representing a targeting of documents filtered based on target categories. These target categories are user selectable and thus provide a convenient means for interacting with the database providing instant directed search and document retrieval. The view window provides an ability to preformat certain cabinet views based on user defined criteria.

Document views may be represented in a strip of thumbnails presented as a scrollable transparent overlay over a larger selected full page view to facilitate user navigation in a group of pages. This may be implemented using the Windows aero or in an Apple Mountain Lion interface or the like.

A search window is provided to manage search and retrieval of documents from the C server database. The search window provides full and complex search facilities including logical Boolean key phrase and full text searches field range etc. The search window may be used for detailed data analysis for example in a medical information database to extract information on patients medical conditions and productivity. The user may save a formulated search for future re execution or to later retrieve the same results. Another function is a subsearch of a defined document set defined by another search or other document set definition. Various document sets may be named that is the limiting criteria defined by a shorthand reference. A project may be defined as a set of retrieved documents which for example have a common subject.

The client user interface software also provides functionality for administration of the C server for example target categories target subcategories document types users security considerations C server communications.

The system serves as a user interface for document management and therefore tends to be paper intensive. Often a user has a stack of papers which are in the process of being input into the system. In many cases the user retains the paper stack until the documents are fully filed and thus creates a hybrid paperless and paper intensive workflow. One aspect of the technology provides a virtual paper stack in which documents are maintained electronically or scanned and then truncated. Instead of working with a stack of paper the images are available to the user on a separate screen in parallel with the document management functions. Preferably the separate screen is a separate device such as an iPad Android or Windows 8 tablet which can be positioned comfortably for the user to view and manipulate a graphic user interface. Because the user swipes the mages to flip pages the virtual paper stack may be positioned flat next to the user rather than on a screen in front of the user. For example a tablet computer may be controlled through a virtual screen driver interface as an extended desktop view presenting the viewer window of the client user interface software. In order to provide greater efficiency the tablet computer may also communicate directly with the C server so that page views are directly drawn from the C server database without communication through the client user interface software. This requires external synchronization of the client software and the virtual paper stack system.

The client user interface system may include email functionality to permit inflow and outflow of data through an email infrastructure. For example one or more documents may be sent as an email attachment to an email message where the email body recipients and subject are defined by and stored within the C server. The email itself is formatted and sent by email client software on the client system though the C server may also communicate directly with an email server system.

Email can be received directly by an email server that routes the email to particular accounts which are associated with users or groups and forwarded to an appropriate C server. The email typically comes from outside a client firewall from an E server email server and may communicate with the C server over an arbitrary TCP port using an encrypted protocol for example using WCF.

Alternately the C server itself may have an email address and receive emails and their respective attachments directed to it. Further a user may have an email account that is monitored for received documents which are then automatically input into the C server or client user interface software.

In any case the document or document image is then automatically processed by the C server either without user intervention or after user authorization and initiation. The email message and header associated with the document are preferably stored in the C server database in association with the document received as an attachment.

Computer system may be coupled via bus to a display such as a cathode ray tube CRT for displaying information to a computer user. An input device including alphanumeric and other keys is coupled to bus for communicating information and command selections to processor . Another type of user input device is cursor control such as a mouse a trackball or cursor direction keys for communicating direction information and command selections to processor and for controlling cursor movement on display . This input device typically has two degrees of freedom in two axes a first axis e.g. x and a second axis e.g. y that allows the device to specify positions in a plane.

The invention is related to the use of computer system for implementing the techniques described herein. According to one embodiment of the invention those techniques are performed by computer system in response to processor executing one or more sequences of one or more instructions contained in main memory . Such instructions may be read into main memory from another machine readable medium such as storage device . Execution of the sequences of instructions contained in main memory causes processor to perform the process steps described herein. In alternative embodiments hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement the invention. Thus embodiments of the invention are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software.

The term machine readable medium as used herein refers to any medium that participates in providing data that causes a machine to operation in a specific fashion. In an embodiment implemented using computer system various machine readable media are involved for example in providing instructions to processor for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non volatile media includes for example optical or magnetic disks such as storage device . Volatile media includes dynamic memory such as main memory . Transmission media includes coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including the wires that comprise bus . Transmission media can also take the form of acoustic or light waves such as those generated during radio wave and infra red data communications. All such media must be tangible to enable the instructions carried by the media to be detected by a physical mechanism that reads the instructions into a machine.

Common forms of machine readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape or any other magnetic medium a CD ROM any other optical medium a RAM a PROM and EPROM a FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave as described hereinafter or any other medium from which a computer can read.

Various forms of machine readable media may be involved in carrying one or more sequences of one or more instructions to processor for execution. For example the instructions may initially be carried on a magnetic disk of a remote computer. The remote computer can load the instructions into its dynamic memory and send the instructions over a telephone line using a modem. A modem local to computer system can receive the data on the telephone line and use an infra red transmitter to convert the data to an infra red signal. An infra red detector can receive the data carried in the infra red signal and appropriate circuitry can place the data on bus . Bus carries the data to main memory from which processor retrieves and executes the instructions. The instructions received by main memory may optionally be stored on storage device either before or after execution by processor .

Computer system also includes a communication interface coupled to bus . Communication interface provides a two way data communication coupling to a network link that is connected to a local network . For example communication interface may be an integrated services digital network ISDN card or a modem to provide a data communication connection to a corresponding type of telephone line. As another example communication interface may be a local area network LAN card to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN. Wireless links may also be implemented. In any such implementation communication interface sends and receives electrical electromagnetic or optical signals that carry digital data streams representing various types of information.

Network link typically provides data communication through one or more networks to other data devices. For example network link may provide a connection through local network to a host computer or to data equipment operated by an Internet Service Provider ISP . ISP in turn provides data communication services through the world wide packet data communication network now commonly referred to as the Internet . Local network and Internet both use electrical electromagnetic or optical signals that carry digital data streams. The signals through the various networks and the signals on network link and through communication interface which carry the digital data to and from computer system are exemplary forms of carrier waves transporting the information.

Computer system can send messages and receive data including program code through the network s network link and communication interface . In the Internet example a server might transmit a requested code for an application program through Internet ISP local network and communication interface .

The received code may be executed by processor as it is received and or stored in storage device or other non volatile storage for later execution.

In this description several preferred embodiments were discussed. Persons skilled in the art will undoubtedly have other ideas as to how the systems and methods described herein may be used. It is understood that this broad invention is not limited to the embodiments discussed herein.

Each of the following references and associated appendices and or supplements is expressly incorporated herein by reference in its entirety 

U.S. Patent and Published Patent Application Nos. U.S. Pat. Nos. 8 046 368 6 668 256 6 621 930 6 446 061 6 237 011 6 009 442 5 197 004 4 965 763 8 015 198 8 014 591 8 014 039 8 000 530 7 979 786 7 969 598 7 958 067 7 949 728 7 945 101 7 941 446 7 937 345 7 933 453 7 908 430 7 877 409 7 861 169 7 853 693 7 849 049 7 849 048 7 840 505 7 818 165 7 779 355 7 774 363 7 769 757 7 764 830 7 761 789 7 761 591 7 761 391 7 757 162 7 756 800 7 747 655 7 747 495 7 743 347 7 739 583 7 734 554 7 729 538 7 716 240 7 703 002 7 672 940 7 664 821 7 660 819 7 647 349 7 640 037 7 639 875 7 602 971 7 599 095 7 596 755 7 574 048 7 570 816 7 564 585 7 561 734 7 552 381 7 539 671 7 536 638 7 529 408 7 509 578 7 509 569 7 499 588 7 495 795 7 478 088 7 475 335 7 475 061 7 450 760 7 424 672 7 386 442 7 376 635 7 370 059 7 370 024 7 331 725 7 305 415 7 299 405 7 284 191 7 275 159 7 266 782 7 263 671 7 263 659 7 257 589 7 251 644 7 239 424 7 222 235 7 215 436 7 194 471 7 185 008 7 154 622 7 149 957 7 149 347 7 142 728 7 136 530 7 133 862 7 117 432 7 039 864 7 039 856 7 024 408 7 016 895 7 003 516 6 976 207 6 976 053 6 938 037 6 928 425 6 847 972 6 826 724 6 820 075 6 801 902 6 778 979 6 732 090 6 718 333 6 658 151 6 556 982 6 553 365 6 549 752 6 542 635 6 470 307 6 442 555 6 178 417 6 175 844 6 125 362 6 122 399 6 104 500 6 044 375 6 009 198 5 991 709 5 937 084 5 909 510 5 579 407 5 511 148 5 390 259 5 168 565 5 159 667 4 748 678 4 653 021 20110258195 20110258182 20110258170 20110258150 20110255794 20110255790 20110255789 20110255788 20110255784 20110255782 20110249905 20110196870 20110192894 20110188759 20110184827 20110178802 20110153680 20110153515 20110145178 20110137898 20110106823 20110103689 20110103682 20110099052 20110093449 20110078191 20110078152 20110055699 20110032578 20100312725 20100306179 20100306141 20100262571 20100250547 20100235369 20100235305 20100223287 20100169329 20100169250 20100153440 20100142832 20100135579 20100094917 20100057763 20100054605 20100034460 20100033765 20100033746 20090313194 20090244556 20090228777 20090228499 20090204607 20090192979 20090187598 20090157382 20090154778 20090152357 20090138466 20090138465 20090119296 20090116757 20090116756 20090116755 20090116746 20090116736 20090110288 20090089305 20090087098 20090080000 20090067729 20090063189 20090034844 20090028443 20090024637 20080301756 20080273221 20080273220 20080272585 20080232219 20080212115 20080172401 20080147790 20080147663 20080147574 20080117472 20080112620 20080109389 20080097936 20080091682 20080086433 20080086432 20080082352 20080071728 20080069437 20080066150 20080066149 20080065700 20080062472 20080060051 20080059474 20080037067 20080005651 20070253030 20070242902 20070237427 20070237128 20070217715 20070217692 20070217691 20070201752 20070180082 20070179987 20070169168 20070157288 20070157287 20070156727 20070156696 20070156695 20070156694 20070156670 20070156659 20070143398 20070136288 20070118569 20070118391 20070100812 20070038606 20060282442 20060264236 20060262910 20060251326 20060229865 20060218110 20060190489 20060149722 20060104511 20060095830 20060085504 20060080314 20060028689 20060023235 20060017959 20050259866 20050251743 20050246300 20050223313 20050125746 20050125402 20050091211 20050022114 20040205448 20040186824 20040042667 20040024775 20040015775 20040013302 20030182304 20030069877 20030061201 20030061200 20030061132 20030046288 20030033288 20030033287 20030002068 20020150300 20020102526 and 20010042085

Srihari Rohini K. and Zhongfei Zhang Finding Pictures In Context Proc. of IAPR International Workshop on Multimedia Information Analysis Retrieval Springer Verlag Press Hong Kong August 1998 pp 109 123

Cloud computing architectures are known. See the following each of which is expressly incorporated herein by reference in its entirety 20110265168 20110265164 20110265147 20110265087 20110265081 20110265077 20110264910 20110264907 20110264754 20110264494 20110264490 20110264418 20110261401 20110258692 20110258686 20110258630 20110258621 20110258612 20110258575 20110258481 20110258441 20110258338 20110258305 20110258263 20110258261 20110258234 20110258202 20110258179 20110258178 20110258154 20110258111 20110257991 20110257977 20110252420 20110252407 20110252192 20110252186 20110252181 20110252071 20110252067 20110251992 20110251937 20110251902 20110251878 20110250570 20110247074 20110247045 20110246995 20110246992 20110246913 20110246817 20110246815 20110246767 20110246766 20110246765 20110246653 20110246627 20110246575 20110246550 20110246530 20110246518 20110246480 20110246434 20110246433 20110246326 20110246310 20110246298 20110246297 20110246294 20110246284 20110246261 20110246253 20110246068 20110244961 and 20110244440.

