---

title: Metadata capture for screen sharing
abstract: A method for metadata capture for screen sharing of a graphical user interface (GUI) screen includes determining by a screen share sending module a region of the GUI screen to be shared; analyzing the GUI screen by a metadata capture module to determine metadata relevant to the region to be shared; and sending a screen share of the region comprising the relevant metadata to a receiver by the screen share sending module.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09021367&OS=09021367&RS=09021367
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 09021367
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120423
---
Screen sharing may be used to communicate information from a user s or sender graphical user interface GUI screen in for example an online chat or web conference. The screen share may comprise an image of the user s GUI screen that is sent to a receiver. The GUI screen may comprise metadata including but not limited to confidentiality information audit trail information text table cell color a uniform resource locator URL link a search query or a persistent session ID. The metadata is not captured in the screen share image for example metadata such as selectable text or clickable URL links may be lost. The metadata must be captured and shared separately.

Different types of metadata require different capturing methods. For example text may be highlighted and copied table cell color may be extracted from HTML code a search query may be copied from a search textbox a URL link may be right clicked and Copy Link Location selected a screen capture of a bitmap may be extracted by pushing the printscreen key or a session ID may be invisible with no available extraction method. A sender of a screen share may not be able to extract more than one of type of metadata at a time. The receiver may determine some metadata via post processing and analysis of received screen share image using for example optical character recognition OCR or lexicographic analysis. However such analysis does not capture all types of metadata that are present in the sender s GUI screen at the time of the screen share and may perform inefficiently or inaccurately. Therefore in an instant messaging scenario the sender may need to copy and paste the metadata information separately and manually to the receiving party which limits the usefulness of the screen share. In a web conference scenario the meeting host may not be able to copy and paste metadata without interrupting the realtime nature of the web conference.

An exemplary embodiment of a method for metadata capture for screen sharing of a graphical user interface GUI screen includes determining by a screen share sending module a region of the GUI screen to be shared analyzing the GUI screen by a metadata capture module to determine metadata relevant to the region to be shared and sending a screen share of the region comprising the relevant metadata to a receiver by the screen share sending module.

Additional features are realized through the techniques of the present exemplary embodiment. Other embodiments are described in detail herein and are considered a part of what is claimed. For a better understanding of the features of the exemplary embodiment refer to the description and to the drawings.

Embodiments of methods for metadata capture for screen sharing are provided with exemplary embodiments being discussed below in detail.

Capture of metadata may be performed automatically in a screen share of a GUI screen rather than through manual copying and pasting by the sender. The sender may select a region within the GUI screen for which metadata is to be extracted or the sender may select the entire GUI screen. Once a region of the screen is selected object recognition technology is applied to the selected region and to objects outside of the selected region that are relevant to the selected region to recognize and capture the metadata. Some or all of the captured metadata may be sent to a receiver along with the screen share according to the sender s preferences. The metadata may be rendered in the receiver s system as HTML an image map native object or any other desired format. The captured metadata is ready for use by the receiver without the need for additional processing. Metadata may be captured across traditional boundaries such as windows frames images or tables and from outside of the designated metadata capture region. The metadata may be captured and shared in a real time collaborative environment to enhance and simplify collaboration and information sharing.

Metadata may include but is not limited to authorship information confidentiality information audit trail information table cell color a persistent session ID text including characteristics such as content font size or line spacing window information such as title or whether the window is minimized maximized or any other application specific information such as a search string URL for a browser application. Shared metadata may be re rendered in the most appropriate format with respect to the application from which the metadata is extracted. For example captured metadata may be presented to appear as if it is on its native application. Application specific support for application windows in the screen share may be provided through application specific plugins. For example when sharing a Power Point presentation or Microsoft Office document metadata such as author or last modified date may be shared. When sharing a browser window a mechanism may be used that that introspects the HTML document described by a standard format such as document object model DOM . When sharing a webpage with persistence and shareable sessions the URL to access the session may also be sent as metadata.

Metadata capture module may implement any appropriate GUI object navigation technology to determine properties such as location size content and visibility of objects in the GUI screen . By determining each object s coordinates in the GUI screen metadata capture module may determine if an object is within the selected region partially within the region or relevant to the selected region. The metadata capture module may then capture metadata from objects determined to be within or relevant to the selected region. Metadata capture module may implement technology including but not limited to object map from the .NET framework Rational Function Tester Spy Public Application Programming Interface API Microsoft Foundation Class MFC or SpyLib in some embodiments.

Metadata may be captured from any portion of the GUI screen that is determined to be relevant to the region of the GUI screen that is selected in block . shows an embodiment of a GUI screen with a region of the GUI screen selected for metadata capturing. GUI screen comprises various objects including icons and windows . The selected region may be selected in any appropriate manner for example clicking and dragging a mouse to form a box on a computer screen or by making a circular region with finger on a touch screen device in some embodiments. A selected region may comprise any portion or all of GUI screen . In selected region includes portions of windows and . Therefore in a metadata capture for a screen share of region any metadata regarding windows and may be captured whether the metadata is actually located inside of region or not as any metadata regarding windows and is relevant to objects located inside region . Information regarding icons and window however may not be captured.

The sender may designate preferences regarding the type and amount of metadata from selected region to share. This may be accomplished via a sender interface such as is shown in . illustrates an embodiment of a sender interface for capturing metadata. Interface may be launched when a sender selects a region of a GUI screen for metadata capture however interface is shown for illustrative purposes only metadata capture may be performed via any appropriate interface. Interface comprises MyCapture which corresponds to the selected region of the sender s GUI screen such as selected region of . MyCapture comprises a web browser application having a URL a search string and various clickable links such as clickable link . MyCapture also comprises applications MyDisclosures and Infoprint Footprint Manager . Available metadata window lists the metadata available in MyCapture and allows the sender to use checkboxes to designate which of the listed metadata to send in a screen share of MyCapture . Once the user has selected the desired metadata for sending with the screen share the user may select Share With Metadata button .

Referring again to the following code segment shows an embodiment of computer code that may be embodied in metadata capture module to capture all metadata in a window 

The following code segment shows an embodiment an embodiment of computer code that may be embodied in metadata capture module to capture metadata for a button in a selected region 

The above code segments are shown for illustrative purposes only metadata capture module may implement any appropriate metadata recognition technology.

The computer includes but is not limited to PCs workstations laptops PDAs palm devices servers storages and the like. Generally in terms of hardware architecture the computer may include one or more processors memory and one or more input and or output I O devices that are communicatively coupled via a local interface not shown . The local interface can be for example but not limited to one or more buses or other wired or wireless connections as is known in the art. The local interface may have additional elements such as controllers buffers caches drivers repeaters and receivers to enable communications. Further the local interface may include address control and or data connections to enable appropriate communications among the aforementioned components.

The processor is a hardware device for executing software that can be stored in the memory . The processor can be virtually any custom made or commercially available processor a central processing unit CPU a digital signal processor DSP or an auxiliary processor among several processors associated with the computer and the processor may be a semiconductor based microprocessor in the form of a microchip or a macroprocessor.

The memory can include any one or combination of volatile memory elements e.g. random access memory RAM such as dynamic random access memory DRAM static random access memory SRAM etc. and nonvolatile memory elements e.g. ROM erasable programmable read only memory EPROM electronically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM programmable read only memory PROM tape compact disc read only memory CD ROM disk diskette cartridge cassette or the like etc. . Moreover the memory may incorporate electronic magnetic optical and or other types of storage media. Note that the memory can have a distributed architecture where various components are situated remote from one another but can be accessed by the processor .

The software in the memory may include one or more separate programs each of which comprises an ordered listing of executable instructions for implementing logical functions. The software in the memory includes a suitable operating system O S compiler source code and one or more applications in accordance with exemplary embodiments. As illustrated the application comprises numerous functional components for implementing the features and operations of the exemplary embodiments. The application of the computer may represent various applications computational units logic functional units processes operations virtual entities and or modules in accordance with exemplary embodiments but the application is not meant to be a limitation.

The operating system controls the execution of other computer programs and provides scheduling input output control file and data management memory management and communication control and related services. It is contemplated by the inventors that the application for implementing exemplary embodiments may be applicable on all commercially available operating systems.

Application may be a source program executable program object code script or any other entity comprising a set of instructions to be performed. When a source program then the program is usually translated via a compiler such as the compiler assembler interpreter or the like which may or may not be included within the memory so as to operate properly in connection with the O S . Furthermore the application can be written as an object oriented programming language which has classes of data and methods or a procedure programming language which has routines subroutines and or functions for example but not limited to C C C Pascal BASIC API calls HTML XHTML XML ASP scripts FORTRAN COBOL Perl Java ADA .NET and the like.

The I O devices may include input devices such as for example but not limited to a mouse keyboard scanner microphone camera etc. Furthermore the I O devices may also include output devices for example but not limited to a printer display etc. Finally the I O devices may further include devices that communicate both inputs and outputs for instance but not limited to a NIC or modulator demodulator for accessing remote devices other files devices systems or a network a radio frequency RF or other transceiver a telephonic interface a bridge a router etc. The I O devices also include components for communicating over various networks such as the Internet or intranet.

If the computer is a PC workstation intelligent device or the like the software in the memory may further include a basic input output system BIOS omitted for simplicity . The BIOS is a set of essential software routines that initialize and test hardware at startup start the O S and support the transfer of data among the hardware devices. The BIOS is stored in some type of read only memory such as ROM PROM EPROM EEPROM or the like so that the BIOS can be executed when the computer is activated.

When the computer is in operation the processor is configured to execute software stored within the memory to communicate data to and from the memory and to generally control operations of the computer pursuant to the software. The application and the O S are read in whole or in part by the processor perhaps buffered within the processor and then executed.

When the application is implemented in software it should be noted that the application can be stored on virtually any computer readable medium for use by or in connection with any computer related system or method. In the context of this document a computer readable medium may be an electronic magnetic optical or other physical device or means that can contain or store a computer program for use by or in connection with a computer related system or method.

The application can be embodied in any computer readable medium for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device such as a computer based system processor containing system or other system that can fetch the instructions from the instruction execution system apparatus or device and execute the instructions. In the context of this document a computer readable medium can be any means that can store communicate propagate or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device. The computer readable medium can be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus device or propagation medium.

More specific examples a nonexhaustive list of the computer readable medium may include the following an electrical connection electronic having one or more wires a portable computer diskette magnetic or optical a random access memory RAM electronic a read only memory ROM electronic an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM EEPROM or Flash memory electronic an optical fiber optical and a portable compact disc memory CDROM CD R W optical . Note that the computer readable medium could even be paper or another suitable medium upon which the program is printed or punched as the program can be electronically captured via for instance optical scanning of the paper or other medium then compiled interpreted or otherwise processed in a suitable manner if necessary and then stored in a computer memory.

In exemplary embodiments where the application is implemented in hardware the application can be implemented with any one or a combination of the following technologies which are well known in the art a discrete logic circuit s having logic gates for implementing logic functions upon data signals an application specific integrated circuit ASIC having appropriate combinational logic gates a programmable gate array s PGA a field programmable gate array FPGA etc.

The technical effects and benefits of exemplary embodiments include automatic sending of metadata information in a screen sharing application without interrupting real time communication.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises and or comprising when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

The corresponding structures materials acts and equivalents of all means or step plus function elements in the claims below are intended to include any structure material or act for performing the function in combination with other claimed elements as specifically claimed. The description of the present invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description but is not intended to be exhaustive or limited to the invention in the form disclosed. Many modifications and variations will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention. The embodiment was chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the invention and the practical application and to enable others of ordinary skill in the art to understand the invention for various embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated.

