---

title: Motor controlled rotating base for directional submarine antennas
abstract: An antenna radome assembly has a radome base and an annular stationary bearing plate attached to and spaced from the radome base. A rotary joint has a fixed portion attached to the stationary bearing plate and a rotating portion extending through a central opening of the stationary bearing plate. A rotating platform is attached to the rotating portion of the rotary joint. The rotating platform includes a circular recess extending into the rotating platform from a first side. The stationary bearing plate is disposed completely within the circular recess. An annular bearing assembly is disposed within the circular recess between the rotating platform and the stationary bearing plate. The bearing assembly is in contact with the rotating platform and the stationary bearing plate, and the rotating platform rotates with respect to the stationary bearing plate and the radome base.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08836597&OS=08836597&RS=08836597
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 08836597
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120928
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for Governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefore.

The range of an antenna is based on its power divided by its beam width among other variables. Therefore directional antennas operate at greater ranges than omni antennas of the same power since directional antennas focus their beam width on an area and omni antennas do not restrict their beam width. The problem with directional antennas is that to see in all directions these antennas either have to rotate or multiple antennas need to be used.

Two exemplary submarine antenna systems that utilize a rotating directional antenna are the Submarine High Data Rate SubHDR and the Type 8B J Mod 3. However neither antenna fits inside a 4.75 inner diameter ID submarine radome. SubHDR is a three axis satellite communication SATCOM system that features a rotating directional antenna that fits in a very large enclosure radome that includes a half of a sphere of radius two feet sitting on top of a two foot diameter cylinder of height one foot that is on top of a one foot tall tapered cone. SubHDR while utilizing a rotating antenna is extremely large. Larger systems are easier to detect visually and by radar.

The Type 8B J Mod 3 is similar to SubHDR in that it is a three axis SATCOM system but it fits inside a much smaller radome with an outside diameter of 7.5 . Antenna systems that have been used in 4.75 ID submarine radomes have been non rotating. These systems have either utilized omni directional antennas one antenna that transmits receives in all directions or an array containing more than one directional antenna. Using multiple antennas creates two disadvantages spreading power among multiple antennas and requiring a larger enclosure to house the antennas. Using multiple antennas means that the power supplied to the system is split between each individual antenna and therefore the range of the entire system is based on the power divided by the number of antennas used. Using multiple antennas also creates size constraints because the size taken up is always going to be larger that of one antenna. Therefore a single directional antenna is desired that can be rotated as needed and can be contained within a smaller radome.

Exemplary embodiments in accordance with the present invention are directed to an antenna radome assembly having a radome base and an annular stationary bearing plate attached to and spaced from the radome base. A dual channel rotary joint is included in the assembly and is constructed from a fixed portion that is attached to the stationary bearing plate and a rotating portion extending through a central opening of the stationary bearing plate. The rotating portion includes a pair of connection terminals one terminal for each channel. The connection terminals are accessible from a second side of the rotating platform opposite the first side.

A rotating platform is attached to the rotating portion and is rotatable with the rotating portion of the rotary joint. The rotating platform includes a circular recess extending into the rotating platform from a first side. The stationary bearing plate is disposed completely within the circular recess. An annular bearing assembly is also disposed within the circular recess between the rotating platform and the stationary bearing plate. The bearing assembly is in contact with the rotation platform and the stationary bearing plate and the rotating platform rotates with respect to the stationary bearing plate and the radome base.

A radome is attached to the radome base to cover the stationary bearing plate and the rotating platform. A directional antenna is attached to the second side of the rotating platform opposite the first side and is covered by the radome. The directional antenna includes two co axial connections. Each co axial connection is attached to one of the connection terminals in the rotary joint. The directional antenna extends from the second side of the rotating platform a distance of less than about 5.5 inches.

Referring initially to exemplary embodiments in accordance with the present invention are directed to an antenna radome assembly rotationally positional deployment of a single directional antenna not shown in a compact radome enclosure that is attached to vehicles such as surface water vehicles and underwater vehicles including unmanned undersea vehicles UUVs . In general the antenna radome assembly is constructed from a plurality of sub assemblies including a base assembly a stationary stand a bearing assembly a rotating platform a motor drive a positioning assembly an antenna system and a radome.

Referring to the base assembly includes a radome base . A pair of radome base co axial cable connectors e.g. two RF connectors and a multiple pin connector are attached to the radome base.

In general the radome base is a disc having a circular cavity extending into the disc from one side. In one embodiment this disc has a diameter of less than about 4.75 inches and a thickness of about 1.3 inches. The circular cavity has a diameter of less than about 3.75 inches and a depth of about 0.75 inches. Suitable materials for the radome base include but are not limited to stainless steel. Preferably the radome base co axial cable connectors and multiple pin connector are disposed completely within the circular cavity such that the co axial cable connectors and multiple pin connector do not extend above the circular cavity.

In one embodiment the two radome base co axial cable connectors are modified versions of D. G. O Brien connector 1100 011 101 commercially available from Teledyne D. G. O Brien Inc. of Seabrook N.H. USA. In order to reduce the size of the antenna radome assembly the D. G. O Brien connector is modified such that the blind mate connector is cut down and replaced with a 90 SubMinature version A SMA coaxial RF connector . These 90 connectors are arranged perpendicular to the direction in which the co axial cable connectors pass through the radome base .

The multiple pin connector is also modified. In one embodiment the multiple pin connector is a modified Seacon XSEE 12 20 BCR connector commercially available from SEA CON of El Cajon Calif. USA. In the modified multiple pin connector a threaded portion that would be located inside the circular cavity of the radome base is removed and the resulting overall length or size is smaller and wires can be easily attached to the pins . In one embodiment the two co axial cable connectors and the multiple pin connector screw into the radome base.

Referring to FIGS. and the stationary stand is an assembly that includes an annular stationary bearing plate that is attached to and spaced from the radome base . The stationary bearing plate is the main support and functions as the static piece about which the directional antenna rotates. Suitable materials for the stationary bearing plate include but are not limited to aluminum. In one embodiment the stationary bearing plate has a diameter of about 3.5 inches and includes a central opening or aperture and a concentric surface annular groove .

In order to attach the stationary bearing plate to the radome base the stationary stand portion of the assembly includes a plurality of stationary bearing plate supports . Each support is attached to and extends between the stationary bearing plate and the radome base to space the stationary bearing plate from the radome base. Preferably the assembly includes four stationary bearing plate supports . Suitable materials for the stationary bearing plate supports include but are not limited to aluminum.

Each stationary bearing plate support can either be a standoff or a machined rod with threaded rods inserted at one end. In one embodiment each stationary bearing plate support is about in diameter with two flat sides to aid in assembly and is about 1.8 inches long. The rod has a 4 40 threaded section at one end of length less than about 0.2 inches from the bottom face and the other end has a tapped 4 40 hole with a depth of about . The rods are threaded into corresponding holes on the radome base and the stationary bearing plate is fastened to each stationary bearing plate support by four 4 40 countersunk cap screws.

Referring to and the stationary stand also includes a rotary joint . The rotary joint includes a fixed portion that is attached to the stationary bearing plate and a rotating portion that is rotatably engaged with the fixed portion and extends through the central opening of the stationary bearing plate . Preferably the rotary joint is a dual channel rotary joint.

For the dual channel rotary joint the rotating portion includes a pair of connection terminals one for each channel. In one embodiment the rotating portion of the rotary joint is formed as a male portion of a two part keyed connection. The fixed portion includes a pair of rotary joint co axial cable connectors in communication with the pair of connection terminals and the pair of radome base co axial cable connectors .

In order to attached and to secure the rotary joint to the stationary bearing plate the stationary stand portion of the assembly further includes a plurality of rotary joint supports attached to and extending between the stationary bearing plate and the fixed portion of the rotary joint such that the rotary joint is suspended by the stationary bearing plate and the fixed portion extends towards the radome base and is spaced from the radome base i.e. the fixed portion does not extend the entire distance from the stationary bearing plate to the radome base . In order to facilitate the attachment of the rotary joint supports to the fixed portion the fixed portion includes a circular flange running completely around the circumference of the fixed portion .

Each rotary joint support is similar in materials and configuration to the stationary bearing plate supports . However the lengths of the rotary joint supports are shorter. In one embodiment the assembly includes four rotary joint supports that are diameter rods with two flat sides and are about 0.78 long. The rotary joint supports have a 4 40 tapped hole at each end of depth . The supports are screwed to the stationary bearing plate via four 4 40 countersunk screws and are screwed at the other end to the rotary joint via four 4 40 cap screws.

In general the dual channel rotary joint is used to connect the radome base co axial cable connectors to the rotating directional antenna system that includes for example the directional antenna and a GPS unit. These connections are made using co axial cables. In order to reduce the space requirements two 90 SubMinature version A SMA coaxial RF connectors are connected to the two SMA ports that extend from the fixed portion of the rotary joint . The coaxial cables e.g. two 0.141 coaxial cables are connected between these two 90 connectors on the rotary joint and to the radome base co axial cable connectors . Without a rotary joint continuous rotations of the directional antenna would result in the wrapping and twisting of the coaxial cables. Suitable rotary joints are commercially available from the Kevlin Corporation of Methuen Mass.

Referring to and the assembly includes a rotating platform that is attached to and rotatable with the rotating portion of the rotary joint . The rotating platform includes a circular recess extending into the rotating platform from a first side . The annular stationary bearing plate is disposed completely within the circular recess and is preferably arranged concentric with the circular recess and spaced from the rotating platform and the interior surfaces of the circular recess so that the rotating platform can rotate freely with respect to the stationary bearing plate .

In one embodiment attachment of the rotating portion to the rotating platform and mutual coordinated rotation is provided by a central keyhole disposed in the circular recess of the rotating platform . The circular keyhole extends through the rotating platform to a second side opposite the first side . The keyhole is configured as the female portion of the two part keyed connection. The corresponding male portion found on the rotating portion extends into the keyhole to attach the rotating portion to the rotating platform. Therefore the connection terminals of the rotary joint are accessible from the second side of the rotating platform .

In one embodiment the rotating platform includes an internal annular groove disposed within and concentric with the circular recess . The concentric surface annular groove of the stationary bearing plate is disposed opposite the internal annular groove .

The rotating platform is constructed as a single piece to which additional pieces are attached including the directional antenna. Suitable materials for the rotating platform include but are not limited to aluminum. The rotating platform sits on top of the stationary bearing plate that is positioned within the circular recess and rotates relative to the stationary bearing plate and the radome base . Directional antennas are mounted to the second side of the rotating platform using a plurality of fasteners such as countersunk screws. In one embodiment the directional antenna is secured to the second side using six 4 40 0.375 countersunk screws.

Referring to the assembly includes an annular bearing assembly disposed within the circular recess between the rotating platform and the stationary bearing plate . The bearing assembly is in contact with the rotating platform and the stationary bearing plate to facilitate rotation of the rotating platform with respect to the stationary bearing plate and the radome base . In one embodiment the bearing assembly has a diameter of less than about 2.75 inches and a central hole having a diameter of about 2 inches. The bearing assembly includes a first annular bearing surface in contact with the rotating platform a second annular bearing surface in contact with the stationary bearing plate and a plurality of roller bearings disposed between the first annular bearing surface and the second annular bearing surface . Suitable materials for the bearing assembly include but are not limited to steel such as stainless steel. The first annular bearing surface rotates with respect to the second annular bearing surface over the plurality of roller bearings . Preferably the first annular bearing surface is disposed within the internal circular groove and the second annular bearing surface is disposed within the surface annular groove .

Therefore the bearing assembly is configured as a three part assembly. All three parts are commercially available from McMaster Carr of Robbinsville N.J. The roller bearings are preferably arranged as a thrust needle roller bearing which is part number 5909K43 and the annular bearing surfaces and are bearing washers which is part number 5909K56. The bearing assembly fits between the stationary bearing plate and the rotating platform in the appropriate annular groove. The bearing assembly allows the rotating platform to rotate smoothly about the stationary bearing plate . Washers are used because the stationary stand and the rotating platform bearing surfaces are preferably aluminum and not hard enough for the thrust bearing. These bearing surfaces would wear and degrade the performance of the system over time. The lower washer is also used to cover up recessed holes on the stationary bearing plate which otherwise would have created a non flat bearing surface that would accelerate wear and yield a less smooth rotation.

In order to rotate the rotating platform and the directional antenna attached to the rotating platform the assembly of the present invention also includes a motor drive assembly. Referring to and this drive assembly includes an internal gear disposed in the circular recess such that the stationary bearing plate is spaced from the internal gear and is disposed between the internal gear and the rotating platform to secure the stationary bearing plate in the circular recess .

Suitable internal gears are commercially available from Stock Drive Products Sterling Instrument of New Hyde Park N.Y. and include for example part number S1E082M08S096. As necessary the internal gear is modified to fit inside the circular recess of the rotating platform and is secured using six radial screws e.g. 2 56 cap screws. The internal gear is fastened to the rotating platform after the rotating platform has been placed on top of the stationary bearing plate and the internal gear sits under the stationary bearing plate and constrains the system vertically. The inside diameter of the internal gear is smaller than the outside diameter of the stationary bearing plate . Therefore the rotating platform cannot be lifted off of the stationary bearing plate unless the internal gear is removed from the circular recess of the rotating platform . There is a clearance between the bottom face of the stationary stand and the top face of the gear so that the whole assembly can move freely.

The assembly includes a motor attached to the radome base and disposed between the radome base and the internal gear . A pinion gear is provided that is attached to and rotatable by the motor. The pinion gear engages gear teeth disposed in the internal gear to rotate the rotating platform relative to the radome base and the stationary bearing plate . Suitable pinion gears are commercially available from Stock Drive Products Sterling Instrument of New Hyde Park N.Y. for example as part number A 1B 1MY08006. Suitable materials for the pinion gear include but are not limited to brass. The pinion gear is fastened to the motor by a pin or solder or any other appropriate adhesive or bonding material. The pinion gear turns the internal steel gear that is attached to the rotating platform .

Suitable motors include but are not limited to a brushless DC motor that contains a relative encoder for positioning and a spur gear head that creates a 22 1 gear ratio. Suitable motors are commercially available from Micro Mo of Clearwater Fla. as for example part number 1524 012SR 16A 22 1 IE2 512. This motor has 6 input output wires and that are attached to the corresponding pins on the pin connector that is fastened to the radome base. The motor is secured to the radome base using four aluminum motor supports and an aluminum motor mounting plate. As with the stationary bearing plate supports the motor supports can be standoffs or diameter rods with two flat sides 0.2 long 4 40 threaded section and a 4 40 threaded hole of depth on the other side however the motor supports are 1.3 in length. The motor supports are screwed into the corresponding holes on the radome base. The motor mounting plate is screwed to the motor supports via four 4 40 counter sunk screws. The motor is attached to the mounting plate by two M2x.4 cap screws of length about 6 mm.

Referring to the assembly also includes a positioning assembly. This positioning assembly includes a first part attached to the first side of the rotating platform and rotatable with the rotating platform and a second part attached to the radome base . The first part passes over the second part at a given point as the rotating platform rotates relative to the radome base . Preferably the first part is a magnet and the second part is a Hall Effect sensor. The positioning system also includes an integral encoder which is located inside the motor . The incremental encoder determines the position of the directional antenna relative to a pre determined reference point.

The magnet is screwed to the underside of the rotating platform and when rotated it passes directly above the Hall Effect sensor which creates an active low output signal. The output signal is used to create the zero point upon which the motor encoder output will be relative to. Knowing the gear ratio and the position of the Hall Effect sensor the angle of the antenna can be determined. The electronics and software that run and control the motor and Hall Effect sensor are located external to the assembly with the signals being transmitted through the multiple pin connector .

The Hall effect sensor snaps onto an aluminum Hall effect sensor mounting plate which is attached to the radome base by a 2 56 cap screw and a Hall effect sensor support. The Hall Effect sensor support like the other supports can be a standoff or a rod with a threaded rod screwed into one side. The Hall Effect sensor support is in diameter with two flat sides has a 0.2 long 4 40 threaded section a 4 40 tapped hole on the other side and is 0.75 long. The Hall effect sensor support is screwed into the corresponding hole on the radome base and is secured to the Hall effect sensor mounting plate by a 4 40 countersunk screw. The Hall Effect sensor contains three wires which are all connected to the pin connector on the radome base .

Referring to the assembly includes a radome attached to the radome base . The radome covers the stationary bearing plate and the rotating platform and defines a space above the second side of the rotating platform sufficient to hold a directional antenna not shown or antenna assembly. In one embodiment this space has a length from the second side to the radome of less than about 5.5 inches. Suitable materials for the radome include materials that are transparent to the signals that are transmitted by or received by the directional assembly. The radome is a composite piece used as a cover to protect the directional antenna from weather and water while allowing the transmission of signals. The radome is pressure tested to ensure that it withstands submarine standards.

The antenna system can include any directional antenna that fits within the size constraints of the radome and that utilizes a maximum of two coaxial connections . In one embodiment the antenna system has a height of about 5.46 inches an antenna SMA connection and a GPS SMA connection. In accordance with exemplary embodiments of the present invention one directional antenna transmits and receives signals 360 degrees and is used inside a 4.75 submarine radome.

Advantages of the present invention over conventional systems include allowing a directional antenna to be used inside a smaller enclosure i.e. the directional antenna fits inside a 5.3 outside diameter OD . In addition to being much smaller the assembly of the present invention is also much lighter which makes handling and installation easier.

The present invention is much more modular and adaptable in that almost any antenna system within size constraints can be placed on top of the stand with little modifications. It is also better than the systems utilized in current 4.75 submarine radomes because of the greater range. It focuses its power on a smaller area than the omni directional antennas because it utilizes only one antenna rather than multiple directional antenna systems. Using one antenna means that power is not divided amongst multiple antennas and since just one antenna can be used it can be larger and thus more effective. Two other unique aspects of this invention are that it can pass two RF paths through the rotating platform and its speed and position can be controlled and determined by the user.

In one embodiment larger radomes are used by altering the dimensions of some of the parts. Larger radomes would mean that there is more internal space and therefore larger antennas could be used. Larger antennas are typically more powerful than smaller antennas and different sized antennas serve different purposes. The present invention could also be changed if there was more vertical space to work with which would mean that the supports could be longer the 90 degree attachments might not have to be used and the Seacon and D G O Brien connectors would not have to be modified. The rotating platform can also be changed so that it fits with different antennas by modifying the number of screws and screw positions and using pegs instead of screws among other modifications.

In one embodiment the present invention is made stronger or lighter by using different materials for any of the parts. Different motors and different gear heads may be used to provide different torques and operating speeds. A different model pin 26 connector RF connectors Hall Effect sensor or magnet could also be used. Different coaxial cables or rotary joints could also be used such that the frequency of the antenna signals can be optimized. This assembly can also be altered by using more bearings or bearing surfaces to decrease friction. Precision components may also be incorporated in such as anti backlash gears and gear heads.

It will be understood that many additional changes in details materials steps and arrangements of parts which have been described herein and illustrated in order to explain the nature of the invention may be made by those skilled in the art within the principle and scope of the invention as expressed in the appended claims.

Finally any numerical parameters set forth in the specification and attached claims are approximations for example by using the term about that may vary depending upon the desired properties sought to be obtained by the present invention. At the very least and not as an attempt to limit the application of the doctrine of equivalents to the scope of the claims each numerical parameter should at least be construed in light of the number of significant digits and by applying ordinary rounding.

