---

title: Animated transition from an application window to another application window
abstract: A method includes receiving an input signal. The input signal includes a request to transition from a start window to an auxiliary window. The start window is identified. The start application is initially in an active state. The auxiliary window is identified. The auxiliary window is initially in an inactive state. A start window overlay is determined based on the start window. The start window overlay includes a visual copy of the start window. An auxiliary window overlay is determined based on the auxiliary window. The method includes transitioning from the start window to the auxiliary window in an active state based on the start window overlay and the auxiliary window overlay.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09619912&OS=09619912&RS=09619912
owner: VERIZON PATENT AND LICENSING INC.
number: 09619912
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120302
---
Computing devices sometimes include a graphical user interface GUI that is used to present applications to users. Each application may receive input to provide different functions through different user interface elements displayed in the GUI. In some instances the computing devices may receive additional input via associated devices such as sensors keyboards computer mice etc.

The following detailed description refers to the accompanying drawings. The same reference numbers in different drawings may identify the same or similar elements. Also the following detailed description is exemplary and explanatory only and is not restrictive of the invention as claimed.

Embodiments described herein relate to devices methods and systems for providing an animated transition from one application window to another application window. In some implementations the transition may be from a start window to an associated auxiliary window. The associated auxiliary window may include information related to the application and information displayed in the start window such as metadata and or indicators regarding specific functions that are available for the application.

In addition embodiments described herein relate to devices methods and systems for providing an animated transition that corresponds to the input signal received via keyboard mouse motion sensors etc. which initiates the transition.

In this implementation device may take the form of a tablet computer. As shown in device may include a speaker a touchscreen display control button a microphone sensors a front camera and a housing . Speaker may provide audible information to a user of device . Although device is shown with particular components and a particular configuration device may include fewer more or different components such as additional sensors input devices and may include associated devices e.g. a stylus etc.

Display may provide visual information to the user such as an image of a caller video images or pictures. In addition display may include a touchscreen for providing input to device . Display may provide hardware software to detect the coordinates of an area that is touched by a user. For example display may include a display panel such as a liquid crystal display LCD organic light emitting diode OLED display and or another type of display that is capable of providing images to a viewer. Display may include a transparent panel surface for locating the position of a finger or an object e.g. stylus when the finger object is touching or is close to display .

Control button may permit the user to interact with device to cause device to perform one or more operations such as place or receive a telephone call input data to device manipulate user interface elements etc. In some implementations control buttons may include a telephone keypad not shown or an alphanumeric keyboard. Microphone may receive audible information from the user. Sensors may collect and provide to device information e.g. acoustic infrared etc. that is used to aid the user in capturing images or in providing other types of information e.g. a distance between a user and device . Front camera may enable a user to view capture and store images e.g. pictures video clips of a subject in front of device . Housing may provide a casing for components of device and may protect the components from outside elements.

In implementations described herein an animated transition from a start window to an auxiliary window in a GUI of device may be provided using overlays of both windows and may provide an animated transition that is seamless from a user s viewpoint. Additionally the animated transition may be modeled to simulate a visual representation of a physical response to an input provided by the user.

From the user s perspective one application window start window is replaced by another application window auxiliary window in a seamless transition that may include animated movement of both windows and including layers that may form the windows and . As used herein an application window is a container for user interface elements while a layer is a type of user interface element e.g. an image within a window. The user may view start window transitioning from and auxiliary window transitioning into the GUI of device on display . For example start window may appear to swivel on a fulcrum to reveal auxiliary window on a reverse side of start window which may be out of sight at the end of the transition . In another example start window may turn a page to reveal auxiliary window . In yet another example start window may appear to open e.g. in a similar manner to a curtain s or door s to reveal auxiliary window . In any event the animated transition from start window as shown in to auxiliary window as shown in may be implemented using start window overlay and auxiliary window overlay as described with respect to .

Start window and auxiliary window are shown in . Start window and auxiliary window may be application windows that display information and features based on particular applications such as a word processing application e.g. Microsoft Word document a digital photograph application a browser application a media manager application a computing desktop etc. Start window may display an application and auxiliary window may display information related to the application and information displayed in start window such as metadata or information regarding specific functions that are available for the application. Auxiliary window may also include control values for the application and elements of the application included in start window for example as described with respect to hereinbelow. The control values included in auxiliary window may be adjusted by a user to change corresponding elements in start window .

According to one implementation start window for a word processing application may display a word processing document and auxiliary window may display associated document information such as an author a modification date word count document format options e.g. page setup header footer formatting etc. In another implementation start window for a digital photograph application may display a digital photograph and auxiliary window may display information about the photograph such as a photograph date pixel dimensions geographical information camera data etc. In a further implementation start window for the browser application may be a browser Web page and auxiliary window may display hypertext markup language HTML code for the browser browsing history bookmarks related Web pages site architecture etc. Desktop application may have a desktop as start window and ancillary information such as system functions user information etc. displayed in auxiliary window .

Application windows and may each have an activity status either active or inactive . An application window that is active may be visible in the GUI of an associated device e.g. in display of device and provide associated functionality for the application e.g. via user interface elements such as icons hyperlinks embedded code digital folders etc. . The device may also receive input from the user in association with the displayed application window when the application window is active e.g. a particular key stroke combination may highlight an item in the application window . An application window that is inactive may not be displayed to the user. Associated functionality for the inactive application window may not be available. Initially start window may be active and auxiliary window may be inactive as shown in . In other words start window may be displayed on display of device prior to receipt of an input signal from a user. Auxiliary window is stored in memory at that instant and functionality associated with auxiliary window may not be accessed at that time.

The user may initiate a transition from start window to auxiliary window by providing an input signal that includes a request for a transition from start window to auxiliary window . For example the user may provide the input signal by clicking on transition button e.g. in a displayed application window or by a pressing a key or combination of keys associated with the transition function e.g. control alt page up on the associated device . Alternatively the user may provide the input signal based on motion detected by motion sensors associated with device . In another implementation the user may provide the input signal via voice commands e.g. an appropriate corresponding spoken command such as related information next page and auxiliary information . The input signal may include a directional component e.g. within a field of detection of motions sensors associated with device or along a touchscreen display of device . Device may identify this directional component.

According to one implementation directional components i.e. motion vectors of the visual effect associated with the transition from start window overlay to auxiliary window overlay may be determined based on directional components of the input signal. For example directional components of the user s motion may be factored into the motion vectors associated with a visual effect of window overlays and reversing i.e. a flip card effect on display . The directional component of the input signal may also be used to determine selection of a particular auxiliary window from a group of available auxiliary windows . For example different application windows may be associated with an upward a downward and a horizontal motion of a cursor beginning at transition button . The user may select a particular application window by an upward flick from transition button .

Although the transition between application windows is described with respect to start window and associated auxiliary window the transition described may be implemented between one or more application windows based on different relationships between the application windows e.g. application windows may be sequential part of a group tangentially related etc. .

As shown in start window may have initial properties and functions and include particular elements such as element . Element may be a layer or an object displayed in start window . For example element may be an image. A user may initiate an animated transition from start window in an active state to auxiliary window in the active state . Auxiliary window may include an interface for presenting or manipulating settings for the application associated with start window . For example where start window is a photo viewing application window presenting an image auxiliary window may include control values in this instance image adjustment controls such as contrast brightness sharpness hue crop image etc. for adjusting the image presented in start window . Alternatively auxiliary window may include metadata information associated with the image presented in start window such as file name information date and time information geotagging information image resolution etc.

The user may transition from auxiliary window in an active state to start window in an active state as shown in after changing control values of particular properties of the elements . The changes in values may be reflected in aspects of elements in start window after the transition back from auxiliary window . For example the user may change an image from color not shown to black and white and from low contrast to a high contrast image. The user may also crop the image.

Processor may include a processor a microprocessor an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC a Field Programmable Gate Array FPGA and or other processing logic e.g. audio video processor capable of processing information and or controlling device .

Memory may include static memory such as read only memory ROM and or dynamic memory such as random access memory RAM or onboard cache for storing data and machine readable instructions. Memory may also include storage devices such as a floppy disk compact disc read only memory CD ROM compact disc CD read write R W disc and or flash memory as well as other types of storage devices.

Memory may store window transition application . Window transition application may include machine readable instructions that execute a transition from one application window to another application window such as from start window to auxiliary window or from auxiliary window to start window .

According to an implementation window transition application may also determine a transition from a current application window to a particular application window based on different input signals received via input output components e.g. movement in one direction selects a particular application window while movement in the other direction selects a different application window . For example a browser Web page may have multiple associated auxiliary windows such as an auxiliary window that includes hypertext markup language HTML code for the browser Web site architecture etc. and another auxiliary window that may display browsing history bookmarks notes etc. for the user.

Input output components may include a keyboard or keypad voice recognition mechanisms motion detectors Universal Serial Bus USB speakers a microphone a stylus and or other types of components for providing an input output signal to from device .

Network interface may include any transceiver like mechanism that enables device to communicate with other devices and or systems. For example network interface may include mechanisms for communicating via a network such as the Internet a terrestrial wireless network e.g. a wireless local area network WLAN a cellular network a satellite based network a wireless personal area network WPAN etc. Additionally or alternatively network interface may include a modem an Ethernet interface to a LAN and or an interface connection for connecting device to other devices e.g. a Bluetooth interface .

Communication path may provide an interface through which components of device may communicate with one another.

Process may begin with device receiving an input signal associated with a request for a transition from start window to auxiliary window block . Device may receive the input signal when a user performs a procedure associated with the transition from start window to auxiliary window . For example device may receive the input signal when a user clicks on or otherwise interacts with window transition button in display of device . Alternatively motion detectors associated with device may detect particular motion that corresponds to a request for a transition to auxiliary window such as a motion of the user s hand from right to left in proximity of the motion sensors i.e. simulating a turning of a page in a book .

According to another implementation device may receive multiple different input signals associated with transitions from start window to different auxiliary windows . For example start window may include multiple transition buttons not shown that each correspond to a different auxiliary window .

At block device may identify start window . Device may identify start window at approximately the time that the input signal is received. Device may identify the configuration of layers in start window .

At block device may identify a target application window in this instance auxiliary window . Device may identify auxiliary window based on the input signal. For example auxiliary window may be associated with window transition button .

At block device may determine a start window overlay based on start window . Start window overlay may be a visual duplicate of start window . Similarly device may determine an auxiliary window overlay based on auxiliary window block .

At block device may position start window overlay and auxiliary window overlay in an animation frame . For example device may position auxiliary window overlay behind start window overlay using animation frame as a frame of reference.

At block device may replace start window with start window overlay . Device replaces start window with start window overlay . The user may not be able to visually detect the change because start window and start window overlay are visual duplicates.

At block device may execute an animated transition from start window overlay to auxiliary window overlay . For example device may manipulate layers and or sub layers i.e. layers that comprise a particular window or layer of start window overlay and auxiliary window overlay to provide an animated visual effect of auxiliary window overlay replacing start window overlay .

Auxiliary window may replace auxiliary window overlay block . Auxiliary window is visible from the user s perspective and provides functionality associated with auxiliary window including user interface elements.

The foregoing description of exemplary implementations provides illustration and description but is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the embodiments described herein to the precise form disclosed. Modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teachings or may be acquired from practice of the embodiments. For example while series of blocks have been described with respect to the order of the blocks may be modified in other implementations. Further non dependent blocks may be performed in parallel. It will be apparent that different aspects of the description provided above may be implemented in many different forms of software firmware and hardware in the implementations illustrated in the figures. The actual software code or specialized control hardware used to implement these aspects is not limiting of the invention. Thus the operation and behavior of these aspects were described without reference to the specific software code it being understood that software and control hardware can be designed to implement these aspects based on the description herein.

Although the implementations described above mainly refer to a transition between a start window and an associated auxiliary window in other implementations other types of transitions may be implemented between different application windows. Additionally the input signal may be provided via different input components.

Further certain portions of the invention may be implemented as a component that performs one or more functions. These components may include hardware such as a processor an ASIC or a FPGA or a combination of hardware and software.

In the preceding specification various preferred embodiments have been described with reference to the accompanying drawings. It will however be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereto and additional embodiments may be implemented without departing from the broader scope of the invention as set forth in the claims that follow. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than restrictive sense.

No element act or instruction used in the description of the present application should be construed as critical or essential to the invention unless explicitly described as such. Also as used herein the article a is intended to include one or more items. Where only one item is intended the term one or similar language is used. Further the phrase based on is intended to mean based at least in part on unless explicitly stated otherwise.

