---

title: Pre-paid phone cash wallet
abstract: A pre-paid mobile phone cash wallet system. The system comprises a processor, a memory, and an application stored in the memory. When executed by the processor, the application receives an initiation message of a pre-paid mobile phone cash wallet, wherein the initiation message identifies a pre-paid wireless communication account, an amount of money presented, and a wallet initiation agent, creates the wallet, where a funds balance of the wallet initially comprises at least a portion of the amount of money presented, persists an association between the wallet and the wallet initiation agent in a memory, and determines a monetary reward for the wallet initiation agent.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09014662&OS=09014662&RS=09014662
owner: Sprint Communications Company L.P.
number: 09014662
owner_city: Overland Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120625
---
Users of portable electronic devices may utilize a variety of different services such as web services or other data services voice call services and short message service SMS also known as text messaging . These services may be offered by a communication service provider of portable electronic devices. Service providers may offer one or more of phone service internet service text messaging service and or other portable electronic device communication services and may bundle more than one of these services. The bundle of services may be referred to as a service plan or device plan. The device plan may be provided as a post pay billing system such that a user is billed for services already provided. For example a user may be billed at the end of a month for the services they have used in that month. Alternatively services may be prepaid such that a user pays for an amount of service which may be applied as a credit to the user s account. The user may then utilize the service until the amount of prepaid service is consumed. Then if desired the user may buy additional service credit in a variety of increments or units. A data plan for example may be purchased as a number of bits or unlimited data for a specified period of time.

In an embodiment a pre paid mobile phone cash wallet system is disclosed. The system comprises a processor a memory and an application stored in the memory. When executed by the processor the application receives an initiation message of a pre paid mobile phone cash wallet wherein the initiation message identifies a pre paid wireless communication account an amount of money presented and a wallet initiation agent creates the wallet where a funds balance of the wallet initially comprises at least a portion of the amount of money presented persists an association between the wallet and the wallet initiation agent in a memory and determines a monetary reward for the wallet initiation agent.

In an embodiment a method of maintaining a pre paid mobile phone cash wallet is disclosed. The method comprises receiving by a computer an initiation message from a wallet initiation agent wherein the initiation message identifies a pre paid phone wireless communication account and an amount of money to be credited to the pre paid mobile phone cash wallet funds establishing by a computer a pre paid mobile phone cash wallet account in a cash wallet data store where the pre paid mobile cash wallet account has an initial funds balance equal to the amount of money identified in the initiation message and creating by a computer in the cash wallet data store an association between the pre paid mobile phone cash wallet account and the wallet initiation agent. The method further comprises transmitting by a computer a pre paid mobile phone cash wallet account number to the wallet initiation agent receiving by a computer a cash load message from a loading agent wherein the cash load message identifies the pre paid mobile phone cash wallet account number and an amount of money to load to the pre paid mobile phone cash wallet funds determining by a computer the identity of the wallet initiation agent associated with the pre paid mobile phone cash wallet account number provided in the cash load message by accessing the cash wallet data store and determining by a computer a monetary reward associated with the cash load message to the wallet initiation agent.

In an embodiment a method of performing a commercial transaction using a pre paid mobile phone cash wallet is disclosed. The method comprises receiving by a computer a transaction message wherein the transaction message comprises a pre paid mobile phone cash wallet account number an identity of a business and a transaction amount identifying by a computer a wallet initiation agent associated with the pre paid mobile phone cash wallet account number by accessing a cash wallet data store based on the pre paid mobile phone cash wallet account number and determining by a computer a monetary reward for the wallet initiation agent based on the transaction amount.

These and other features will be more clearly understood from the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings and claims.

It should be understood at the outset that although illustrative implementations of one or more embodiments are illustrated below the disclosed systems and methods may be implemented using any number of techniques whether currently known or not yet in existence. The disclosure should in no way be limited to the illustrative implementations drawings and techniques illustrated below but may be modified within the scope of the appended claims along with their full scope of equivalents.

In an embodiment a pre paid mobile phone cash wallet system is disclosed. The pre paid mobile phone marketplace may provide mobile communication services to many customers with limited financial resources and who may not have banking accounts such as checking accounts savings accounts and or credit card accounts. Such customers may be unable to make on line payments and or make debit card transactions. The pre paid mobile phone cash wallet system disclosed herein may enable such customers to make on line purchases and or complete electronic payment with participating affiliates.

The pre paid mobile phone may be associated with a pre paid mobile phone service account that was opened with the assistance of a pre paid account initiation agent. A pre paid balance may be associated with the service account such that as the pre paid subscriber uses his or her pre paid wireless communication service the pre paid funds balance decrements. When the pre paid funds balance decrements to zero wireless communication service will no longer be provided to the subject pre paid mobile phone under normal circumstances emergency calls may be carried even for pre paid mobile phones having a zero pre paid funds balance . The user may add new funds or top up the pre paid funds balance for example by performing a top up transaction with the pre paid initiation agent or another agent.

A customer having a pre paid mobile phone may open a cash wallet account associated with but distinct from the pre paid mobile phone service account. For example a pre paid mobile phone service account funds balance may be independent from a funds balance associated with the cash wallet account. The opening of the cash wallet account is facilitated by a wallet initiation agent for example a pre paid mobile phone dealer or other retailer. It may be the case that the pre paid account initiation agent is identical with the wallet initiation agent but the two need not be the same agents. The wallet initiation agent receives a cash payment from the customer receives an identity of the pre paid mobile phone service account takes any information useful to the opening of the cash wallet and transmits an initiation message to a cash wallet application programming interface API service layer application that may execute on a server computer in the mobile communication service provider enterprise network. The initiation message indicates the associated pre paid mobile phone service account and an initial funds balance for the cash wallet. The initial funds balance may be less than the cash payment received from the customer for example when a cash wallet initiation fee is charged to the customer.

The process of initiating the cash wallet may comprise downloading and installing a cash wallet client or application onto the pre paid mobile phone for example via a short range wireless communication technology such as WiFi or Bluetooth or via a cellular wireless communication protocol. The cash wallet client may comprise a user interface for requesting a report of the current funds balance of the cash wallet and to complete one or more cash transactions. For example the user interface may provide a control for initiating a cash transfer for example a cash transfer from the cash wallet account of a working man to the man s retired mother s bank account in a distant city or in another country. The user interface may provide a control for paying utility bills from the cash wallet account. The user interface may provide a control for sending flowers to others. The user interface may update over the air from the cellular wireless network with different controls for completing different cash purchase transactions according to seasonal schedules aligned with festivals or holidays. The controls may be provided by the cash wallet client as transaction widgets that are presented on the user interface.

The process of initiating the cash wallet also comprises creating a pre paid mobile phone cash wallet account as an entry in a data store. The cash wallet account may comprise a cash wallet account number a funds balance the identity of the initiation agent and the pre paid mobile phone account number. The cash wallet account number is transmitted back to the initiation agent for updating into the cash wallet client as well as to provide to the user. An optional personal identification number PIN may be provided to the user by the initiation agent also.

As transactions are made using the cash wallet a portion of the transaction cost is absorbed by paying a monetary reward to the wallet initiation agent thereby incenting the wallet initiation agents generally to promote pre paid mobile phone customers opening the cash wallet accounts. When the pre paid account initiation agent is the same as the wallet initiation agent the pre paid account initiation agent is incented to market the pre paid mobile cash wallet to the customer. The monetary reward may be a fixed constant value per transaction. Alternatively the monetary reward may be a percentage of the transaction value. When the customer wishes to refill the funds balance in his or her cash wallet the customer presents cash to a loading agent. A cash load fee is levied upon the cash loading transaction part of which is given to the loading agent and part of which is given to the wallet initiation agent and or to the prepaid account initiation agent. In some loading scenarios the loading agent may also be the wallet initiation agent and or the pre paid account initiation agent. The loading agent transmits a loading message to the cash wallet application programming interface service layer application that identifies the amount of the cash load and the wallet cash account. The cash wallet application programming interface service layer application allocates the appropriate value of cash to the cash wallet funds balance and distributes the appropriate loading monetary reward to the wallet initiation agent and or to the pre paid account initiation agent. The loading agent may take his or her share directly out of the cash presented by the customer.

In an embodiment both transaction monetary rewards and loading cash shares may be accumulated and distributed to the initiation agents and others on periodic settlement intervals for example at the end of a business day at the end of a week at the end of a month at the end of a quarter or on some other time interval. In an embodiment information about the transactions and the loading events are stored in a data store and processed in a batch immediately before settlement time. Batch processing may promote distributing a load on computers that support the described system more efficiently. For example the batch processing may be done during periods of low transaction processing times such as early morning.

The customer may pay for transactions with affiliates by presenting the cash wallet account number and the optional PIN. Alternatively an electronic card may be provided in association with the cash wallet account that may be used to identify the cash wallet account number with the customer still providing the PIN. Alternatively the electronic card may store funds electronically in the card itself for example as a debit card. Some transactions for example funds transfer may be performed by the pre paid mobile phone for example via the user interface of the cash wallet client. In an embodiment the cash wallet client may promote transferring cash from the funds balance of the cash wallet account to the pre paid communication account funds balance. A monetary reward or residual may be determined and distributed to the wallet initializing agent on based on these transactions. In an embodiment a monetary reward or residual may be determined and distributed to the pre paid account initializing agent based on these transactions.

Turning now to a pre paid cash wallet system is described. In an embodiment the system comprises a pre paid mobile phone a base transceiver station BTS a network a server computer a cash wallet application programming interface API service layer a data store a plurality of stores and a plurality of trusted service providers TSPs . The network may comprise one or more public networks one or more private networks or a combination thereof. The stores may comprise any number of pre paid mobile phone retail stores product stores on line stores money transfer services utility service providers and other stores. In some contexts the stores may be referred to as businesses. The base transceiver station provides a wireless communication link to the phone and connectivity there through to the network to conduct pre paid communications such as voice and or data communication. In an embodiment the base transceiver station communicates with the phone according to one of a code division multiple access CDMA global system for mobile communications GSM long term evolution LTE worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX or other cellular wireless communication protocol. It is understood that the system may comprise any number of pre paid mobile phones base transceiver stations stores and trusted service providers .

The cash wallet API service layer may be one or more computer programs and or applications that execute on the server computer . Computers are described in more detail hereinafter. The data store comprises a plurality of cash wallet accounts . The data store may comprise a data base a lightweight directory access protocol LDAP data store one or more flat files or some other structure of aggregated data. In some contexts the data store may be referred to as a cash wallet data store. A cash wallet account may take on any of a variety of implementations and is an abstraction for the collectivity of information that is pertinent to a cash wallet account. The cash wallet account is discussed further below with reference to .

A representative scenario for initiating and using the pre paid mobile phone cash wallet is now described. It is understood that the present disclosure contemplates a number of alternatives and variations to this representative scenario. A user who has a pre paid mobile phone service account may visit a store for example a pre paid mobile phone store to purchase additional pre paid communication service e.g. to top up their pre paid mobile phone funds balance. The pre paid mobile phone store may be referred to in some contexts as a dealer or a dealer store. Any employee of the dealer store may be referred to as a dealer or the dealer in some contexts herein. After the dealer has received the user s cash and topped up the user s pre paid mobile phone funds balance the dealer may further persuade the user to set up a pre paid mobile phone cash wallet for the pre paid mobile phone . The dealer may be the same business as the business that initialized the pre paid mobile phone service for the subject pre paid mobile phone .

The user may provide cash to the store to initiate the cash wallet for the phone . The store may install a cash wallet client on the pre paid mobile phone for example a cash wallet client application. The store may further send an initiation message to the server and the cash wallet API service layer via the network . In an embodiment the store may be associated with one of the trusted service providers and the trusted service provider may relay the initiation message from the store to the server and the API service layer . The role of the trusted service provider in this initiation transaction may comprise performing automated clearing house ACH functions.

A portion of the cash provided by the user may be designated for deposit in a pre paid mobile phone cash wallet funds balance and another portion of the cash provided by the user may be designated as a monetary reward for the store or dealer that initiates the pre paid mobile phone cash wallet. In an embodiment the store may take its monetary reward directly from the customer at the time cash is rendered. Alternatively in another embodiment all of the tendered cash is transferred to the cash wallet API service layer and the monetary reward to the store in this scenario the dealer is transferred to an account associated with the store at a settlement time.

The store and or dealer that mediates the set up and or initiation of the pre paid mobile phone cash wallet is referred to as the wallet initiation agent in some contexts herein. The store and or dealer that mediates the set up and or initiation of the pre paid mobile phone service may be referred to as the pre paid account initiation agent. In response to receiving the initiation message the cash wallet API service layer creates a cash wallet account in the data store . The cash wallet API service layer associates a cash wallet account number with the cash wallet account and establishes a cash wallet funds balance for the cash wallet account based on the cash that is tendered by the customer. The cash wallet account number is transmitted back to the dealer and the dealer configures the cash wallet client with the cash wallet account number. The dealer may also inform the user of the cash wallet account number. An optional PIN may also be provided to the user.

The pre paid mobile phone cash wallet may be understood to comprise a distributed collection of computer programs and data. For example the pre paid mobile phone cash wallet comprises the cash wallet client that is installed and executes on the pre paid mobile phone the cash wallet API service layer that is installed and executes on the server and the data that constitutes the cash wallet account that is stored in the data store . Notwithstanding this technical vision of the pre paid mobile phone cash wallet in some contexts it may be said that the pre paid mobile phone has a cash wallet or that a cash wallet is installed on the pre paid mobile phone which may be the customer vision or abstraction of the cash wallet.

The cash wallet client may provide a user interface that the user may control to use the cash wallet. For example the cash wallet user interface may provide a control to request to present the cash wallet funds balance. When this control is selected the cash wallet client may send a funds balance information request message to the cash wallet API service layer where the message comprises the cash wallet account identity. The cash wallet API service layer may retrieve the funds balance information from the appropriate cash wallet account the cash wallet API service layer may transmit the funds balance information to the cash wallet client and the cash wallet client may present the funds balance information on a display of the pre paid mobile phone . In an embodiment the cash wallet API service layer may transmit the funds balance information via a short message system SMS text message to the pre paid mobile phone .

The cash wallet user interface may further provide controls to complete a money transfer or to complete an on line purchase transaction with an affiliated store or other affiliated business. To support money transfers and or purchase transactions the cash wallet user interface may present transaction widgets that work with the user to perform the desired transactions. In an embodiment the cash wallet API service layer or other component may update the transaction widgets that are presented in the user interface of the cash wallet client over the air OTA via the base transceiver station . In an embodiment some of the transaction widgets may be installed and or uninstalled seasonally for example in view of a forthcoming holiday such as Christmas or Mother s Day.

The money transfer may be completed by the cash wallet client sending a funds transfer request message to the cash wallet API service layer with the funds transfer amount and an account number and or other bank routing number information designating where the funds are to be transferred to. Alternatively the funds transfer request message may designate another cash wallet account number to transfer the funds to. Alternatively the funds transfer request message may designate the pre paid mobile phone wireless communication account number to promote transferring funds from the funds balance of the cash wallet to the funds balance of the pre paid mobile phone wireless communication account.

When a money transfer has been completed for example a money transfer from the funds balance of the pre paid mobile phone cash wallet to another financial account such as a savings account or a checking account associated with a different individual than the user of the pre paid mobile phone the cash wallet API service layer decrements the funds balance of the cash wallet account by the amount of money transferred as well as by an amount of a money transfer fee. The money transfer fee may be distributed among a plurality of different stake holders for example to a money transfer enterprise to the wallet initiation agent that initialized or set up the cash wallet for the subject pre paid mobile phone to a pre paid account initiation agent and one or more others. The money transfer fee may be distributed at a settlement time for example at an end of the day at an end of the week at an end of the month at an end of the quarter or at some other settlement interval.

The pre paid mobile phone cash wallet may also be used to complete a transaction at a business affiliate by the user providing the cash wallet account number and an optional PIN at a point of sale terminal of the business affiliate. The clerk and or the point of sale terminal may transmit a transaction message to a trusted service provider associated with the subject business affiliate. The transaction message may comprise the amount of the transaction the identity of the pre paid mobile phone cash wallet e.g. the cash wallet account number the optional PIN and the identity of the business affiliate. The trusted service provider forwards the transaction message possibly after pre processing the transaction message to the cash wallet API service layer .

The cash wallet API service layer determines an amount of monetary reward or residual based on the transaction that may be distributed among a plurality of stake holders for example to the wallet initiation agent and or to the pre paid account initiation agent. The cash wallet API service layer provides the purchase price of the transaction to the business affiliate at a settlement time and the monetary reward or residual to the wallet initiation agent to the pre paid account initiation agent and or other stake holders at a settlement time. The settlement time for transferring money to the business affiliate for the purchased good or service may be different from the settlement time for transferring residuals and or monetary rewards to the initiation agent to the pre paid account initiation agent and or others. In an embodiment the trusted service provider and or the store may likewise receive a residual associated with the transaction.

In an embodiment a store may mediate the installation of one or more transaction widgets in the cash wallet client . For example a dealer at a store may upload a money transfer widget to the pre paid mobile phone for example over a WiFi wireless link over a Bluetooth wireless link over a cellular wireless link or over some other communication link including a wired or cabled link. In this case the store may send a transaction widget installation information message to the cash wallet API service layer identifying the transaction widget that is installed and the pre paid mobile phone cash wallet account associated with the installation. In an embodiment a monetary reward may be provided to the store and or the dealer that installed the money transfer widget in the cash wallet client by either the cash wallet API service layer or a trusted service provider . The monetary reward may be provided to the wireless service provider. A portion or a residual of the monetary reward may be provided to the wallet initiation agent and or to the pre paid account initiation agent.

The store may promote the user loading cash into the cash wallet and or into the cash wallet funds balance. The user may deliver cash for loading onto the cash wallet to a store or a loading agent and the loading agent may send a loading message to the cash wallet API service layer identifying the amount of cash to load to the cash wallet funds balance. In an embodiment the loading agent is awarded a loading fee which is not represented in the amount of cash indicated in the loading message. Additionally a residual or monetary reward funded out of the amount of cash indicated in the loading message may be provided to the wallet initiation agent and or to the pre paid account initiation agent. In some cases the loading agent and the wallet initiation agent are one and the same but this is not necessarily the case. If the loading agent is the same as the wallet initiation agent the subject agent may receive the loading fee in addition to the residual funded out of the amount of cash indicated in the loading message. The cash wallet API service layer increments the cash wallet funds balance by an appropriate amount based on the amount of cash indicated in the loading message.

In an embodiment residuals and monetary rewards may be calculated in an event driven fashion at the time that a cash wallet is created at the time a transaction occurs at the time a money transfer occurs or at the time a loading of cash occurs. Alternatively information about these events may be stored and accumulated for example in the data store or in another data store. These stored events may then be processed at a later time for example during a time when the system is lightly loaded for example in early morning hours and or over a weekend. The processing of the stored and accumulated events may be referred to in some contexts as batch processing. The batch processing of the events to determine monetary rewards and or residuals may be organized in any fashion. For example each event may be processed in chronological order. Alternatively the events may first be sorted based on wallet initiation agents and all events associated with a first wallet initiation agent are processed then all events associated with a second wallet initiation agent are processed and so forth.

Monetary rewards and residuals are accumulated for each of the subject initiation agents and or pre paid account initiation agents and when the processing completes a single electronic money transfer may be performed to distribute the aggregated monetary rewards and or residual to each of the subject initiation agents and or pre paid account initiation agents. The processing can determine the wallet initiation agent and the pre paid account initiation agent associated with any event by association of the cash wallet account number to the cash wallet account which stores the identity of the wallet initiation agent and the identity of the pre paid account initiation agent.

Turning now to further details of the cash wallet account are described. In an embodiment the cash wallet account comprises a cash wallet account number an identity of a pre paid account initiation agent a funds balance an identity of an wallet initiation agent and a pre paid mobile communication service account number. It is understood that in other embodiments the cash wallet account may comprise either fewer or more components than described above. The cash wallet account number may be a numeric account number that uniquely identifies the cash wallet account . The identity of the pre paid account initiation agent uniquely identifies the agent or store that initiated or set up the pre paid mobile phone communication service account. The funds balance may represent the current balance of cash in the cash wallet account available for transactions. The identity of the wallet initiation agent uniquely identifies the agent or store that initiated or set up the pre paid mobile phone cash wallet and or the cash wallet account . The pre paid mobile communication service account number may be a numeric account number that uniquely identifies the pre paid mobile phone communication service account that is associated with the pre paid mobile phone on which the cash wallet is installed. In some contexts it may be said that the wallet initiation agent and the cash wallet account number are associated for example associated by being both associated with the same cash wallet account .

Turning now to a method is described. At block receive an initiation message from a wallet initiation agent wherein the initiation message identifies a pre paid mobile phone wireless communication account and an amount of money to be credited to the pre paid mobile phone cash wallet funds balance. It is understood that the user of the pre paid mobile phone may provide more cash to open or initiate the pre paid mobile phone cash wallet than the amount of money to be credited to the pre paid mobile phone case wallet funds balance e.g. an initiation fee due to the wallet initiation agent as described above. This may be referred to in some contexts as taking out the initiation fee on a front end. Alternatively the initiation fee may be taken out at a back end of initiation. At block establish a pre paid mobile phone cash wallet account having an initial funds balance equal to the amount of money identified in the initiation message. Alternatively if the initiation fee is to be taken out at the back end of initiation the initial funds balance is less than the amount of money identified in the initiation message by the amount of the initiation fee. At block create in a cash wallet data store an association between the pre paid mobile phone cash wallet account and the wallet initiation agent. The processing of block may further comprise storing an association between the pre paid account initiation agent with and the pre paid mobile phone cash wallet account. At block transmit a pre paid mobile phone cash wallet account number to the wallet initiation agent.

At block receive a cash load message from a loading agent wherein the cash load message identifies the pre paid mobile phone cash wallet account number and an amount of money to load to the pre paid mobile phone cash wallet funds. At block determine the identity of the wallet initiation agent associated with the pre paid mobile phone cash wallet account number provided in the cash load message by accessing the cash wallet data store. At block at a settlement time distribute a monetary reward associated with the cash load message to the wallet initiation agent. In an embodiment method may be performed by the cash wallet API service layer . In an embodiment the method further comprises determining the identity of the pre paid account initiation agent associated with the pre paid mobile phone cash wallet account number and distributing a monetary reward or residual to the pre paid account initiation agent at settlement time.

Turning now to a method is described. At block receive a transaction message wherein the transaction message comprises a pre paid mobile phone cash wallet account number an identity of a business and a transaction amount. At block identify a wallet initiation agent associated with the pre paid mobile phone cash wallet account number by accessing a cash wallet data store based on the pre paid mobile phone cash wallet account number. At block determine a monetary reward for the wallet initiation agent based on the transaction amount. At block at a settlement time distributing the monetary reward to the wallet initiation agent and distributing the transaction amount to the business. As described above the cost of the good or service that is the object of the transaction as well as the amount of the monetary reward may be deducted from the funds balance of the cash wallet account . In an embodiment method may be performed by the cash wallet API service layer . In an embodiment the method further comprises determining the identity of the pre paid account initiation agent associated with the pre paid mobile phone cash wallet account number and distributing a monetary reward or residual based on the transaction amount to the pre paid account initiation agent at settlement time.

The DSP or some other form of controller or central processing unit operates to control the various components of the mobile device in accordance with embedded software or firmware stored in memory or stored in memory contained within the DSP itself. In addition to the embedded software or firmware the DSP may execute other applications stored in the memory or made available via information carrier media such as portable data storage media like the removable memory card or via wired or wireless network communications. The application software may comprise a compiled set of machine readable instructions that configure the DSP to provide the desired functionality or the application software may be high level software instructions to be processed by an interpreter or compiler to indirectly configure the DSP .

The DSP may communicate with a wireless network via the analog baseband processing unit . In some embodiments the communication may provide Internet connectivity enabling a user to gain access to content on the Internet and to send and receive e mail or text messages. The input output interface interconnects the DSP and various memories and interfaces. The memory and the removable memory card may provide software and data to configure the operation of the DSP . Among the interfaces may be the USB port and the infrared port . The USB port may enable the mobile device to function as a peripheral device to exchange information with a personal computer or other computer system. The infrared port and other optional ports such as a Bluetooth interface or an IEEE 802.11 compliant wireless interface may enable the mobile device to communicate wirelessly with other nearby handsets and or wireless base stations.

The keypad couples to the DSP via the interface to provide one mechanism for the user to make selections enter information and otherwise provide input to the mobile device . Another input mechanism may be the touch screen LCD which may also display text and or graphics to the user. The touch screen LCD controller couples the DSP to the touch screen LCD . The GPS receiver is coupled to the DSP to decode global positioning system signals thereby enabling the mobile device to determine its position.

It is understood that by programming and or loading executable instructions onto the computer system at least one of the CPU the RAM and the ROM are changed transforming the computer system in part into a particular machine or apparatus having the novel functionality taught by the present disclosure. It is fundamental to the electrical engineering and software engineering arts that functionality that can be implemented by loading executable software into a computer can be converted to a hardware implementation by well known design rules. Decisions between implementing a concept in software versus hardware typically hinge on considerations of stability of the design and numbers of units to be produced rather than any issues involved in translating from the software domain to the hardware domain. Generally a design that is still subject to frequent change may be preferred to be implemented in software because re spinning a hardware implementation is more expensive than re spinning a software design. Generally a design that is stable that will be produced in large volume may be preferred to be implemented in hardware for example in an application specific integrated circuit ASIC because for large production runs the hardware implementation may be less expensive than the software implementation. Often a design may be developed and tested in a software form and later transformed by well known design rules to an equivalent hardware implementation in an application specific integrated circuit that hardwires the instructions of the software. In the same manner as a machine controlled by a new ASIC is a particular machine or apparatus likewise a computer that has been programmed and or loaded with executable instructions may be viewed as a particular machine or apparatus.

The secondary storage is typically comprised of one or more disk drives or tape drives and is used for non volatile storage of data and as an over flow data storage device if RAM is not large enough to hold all working data. Secondary storage may be used to store programs which are loaded into RAM when such programs are selected for execution. The ROM is used to store instructions and perhaps data which are read during program execution. ROM is a non volatile memory device which typically has a small memory capacity relative to the larger memory capacity of secondary storage . The RAM is used to store volatile data and perhaps to store instructions. Access to both ROM and RAM is typically faster than to secondary storage . The secondary storage the RAM and or the ROM may be referred to in some contexts as computer readable storage media and or non transitory computer readable media.

I O devices may include printers video monitors liquid crystal displays LCDs touch screen displays keyboards keypads switches dials mice track balls voice recognizers card readers paper tape readers or other well known input devices.

The network connectivity devices may take the form of modems modem banks Ethernet cards universal serial bus USB interface cards serial interfaces token ring cards fiber distributed data interface FDDI cards wireless local area network WLAN cards radio transceiver cards such as code division multiple access CDMA global system for mobile communications GSM long term evolution LTE worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX and or other air interface protocol radio transceiver cards and other well known network devices. These network connectivity devices may enable the processor to communicate with the Internet or one or more intranets. With such a network connection it is contemplated that the processor might receive information from the network or might output information to the network in the course of performing the above described method steps. Such information which is often represented as a sequence of instructions to be executed using processor may be received from and outputted to the network for example in the form of a computer data signal embodied in a carrier wave.

Such information which may include data or instructions to be executed using processor for example may be received from and outputted to the network for example in the form of a computer data baseband signal or signal embodied in a carrier wave. The baseband signal or signal embedded in the carrier wave or other types of signals currently used or hereafter developed may be generated according to several methods well known to one skilled in the art. The baseband signal and or signal embedded in the carrier wave may be referred to in some contexts as a transitory signal.

The processor executes instructions codes computer programs scripts which it accesses from hard disk floppy disk optical disk these various disk based systems may all be considered secondary storage ROM RAM or the network connectivity devices . While only one processor is shown multiple processors may be present. Thus while instructions may be discussed as executed by a processor the instructions may be executed simultaneously serially or otherwise executed by one or multiple processors. Instructions codes computer programs scripts and or data that may be accessed from the secondary storage for example hard drives floppy disks optical disks and or other device the ROM and or the RAM may be referred to in some contexts as non transitory instructions and or non transitory information.

In an embodiment the computer system may comprise two or more computers in communication with each other that collaborate to perform a task. For example but not by way of limitation an application may be partitioned in such a way as to permit concurrent and or parallel processing of the instructions of the application. Alternatively the data processed by the application may be partitioned in such a way as to permit concurrent and or parallel processing of different portions of a data set by the two or more computers. In an embodiment virtualization software may be employed by the computer system to provide the functionality of a number of servers that is not directly bound to the number of computers in the computer system . For example virtualization software may provide twenty virtual servers on four physical computers. In an embodiment the functionality disclosed above may be provided by executing the application and or applications in a cloud computing environment. Cloud computing may comprise providing computing services via a network connection using dynamically scalable computing resources. Cloud computing may be supported at least in part by virtualization software. A cloud computing environment may be established by an enterprise and or may be hired on an as needed basis from a third party provider. Some cloud computing environments may comprise cloud computing resources owned and operated by the enterprise as well as cloud computing resources hired and or leased from a third party provider.

In an embodiment some or all of the functionality disclosed above may be provided as a computer program product. The computer program product may comprise one or more computer readable storage medium having computer usable program code embodied therein to implement the functionality disclosed above. The computer program product may comprise data structures executable instructions and other computer usable program code. The computer program product may be embodied in removable computer storage media and or non removable computer storage media. The removable computer readable storage medium may comprise without limitation a paper tape a magnetic tape magnetic disk an optical disk a solid state memory chip for example analog magnetic tape compact disk read only memory CD ROM disks floppy disks jump drives digital cards multimedia cards and others. The computer program product may be suitable for loading by the computer system at least portions of the contents of the computer program product to the secondary storage to the ROM to the RAM and or to other non volatile memory and volatile memory of the computer system . The processor may process the executable instructions and or data structures in part by directly accessing the computer program product for example by reading from a CD ROM disk inserted into a disk drive peripheral of the computer system . Alternatively the processor may process the executable instructions and or data structures by remotely accessing the computer program product for example by downloading the executable instructions and or data structures from a remote server through the network connectivity devices . The computer program product may comprise instructions that promote the loading and or copying of data data structures files and or executable instructions to the secondary storage to the ROM to the RAM and or to other non volatile memory and volatile memory of the computer system .

In some contexts the secondary storage the ROM and the RAM may be referred to as a non transitory computer readable medium or a computer readable storage media. A dynamic RAM embodiment of the RAM likewise may be referred to as a non transitory computer readable medium in that while the dynamic RAM receives electrical power and is operated in accordance with its design for example during a period of time during which the computer is turned on and operational the dynamic RAM stores information that is written to it. Similarly the processor may comprise an internal RAM an internal ROM a cache memory and or other internal non transitory storage blocks sections or components that may be referred to in some contexts as non transitory computer readable media or computer readable storage media.

While several embodiments have been provided in the present disclosure it should be understood that the disclosed systems and methods may be embodied in many other specific forms without departing from the spirit or scope of the present disclosure. The present examples are to be considered as illustrative and not restrictive and the intention is not to be limited to the details given herein. For example the various elements or components may be combined or integrated in another system or certain features may be omitted or not implemented.

Also techniques systems subsystems and methods described and illustrated in the various embodiments as discrete or separate may be combined or integrated with other systems modules techniques or methods without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Other items shown or discussed as directly coupled or communicating with each other may be indirectly coupled or communicating through some interface device or intermediate component whether electrically mechanically or otherwise. Other examples of changes substitutions and alterations are ascertainable by one skilled in the art and could be made without departing from the spirit and scope disclosed herein.

