---

title: Methods, systems, and computer program products for providing metadata subscription services
abstract: Providing metadata subscription services includes receiving a notification subscription request containing an item selected from a plurality of items residing in a repository. The items are stored in hierarchically-arranged levels of storage within the repository. Providing the services also includes determining that metadata of the item has been modified and creating a notification including changes made with respect to the metadata and any others of the items residing in the repository at a storage level equal to a storage level of the item and any storage levels that are lower than the storage level of the item. Providing the services further includes transmitting the notification to a user-specified first address and transmitting a copy of the item including the changes to a user-specified second address. The user-specified second address is different than the user-specified first address.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09118727&OS=09118727&RS=09118727
owner: AT&T INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I, L.P.
number: 09118727
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121101
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 025 230 filed on Dec. 29 2004 the entire contents of each of which are incorporated herein by reference.

Exemplary embodiments relate generally to repository contents and more particularly to methods systems and computer program products for providing subscription services to provide notification when metadata in a repository is modified.

Metadata has traditionally been defined as data about data or information about information and may be thought of as information that classifies and or describes an object. Metadata may describe data information and or knowledge. Today with the advent of technologies such as hypermedia and heuristically based searching and indexing a new broader more generic definition of metadata has been emerging. This definition includes the traditional concepts but it adds the concepts of existence perspective modeling and topicality. The expanded definition recognizes that much if not most of enterprise data is not found in traditional relational database management systems RDMS but rather it is found in the myriad technological assets and views of those assets that exist at any point in time. The expanded enterprise definition of metadata as used herein is as follows metadata is structured semi structured and unstructured data that describes the characteristics of a resource external source or asset internal source metadata is about knowledge which is the ability to turn information and data into effective action. Metadata may provide information such as where an asset resource is located what primitive elements make up the asset resource and how the asset resource was developed or created.

Enterprise architectures may define a universe where assets are created by the technical community in a variety of forms. An asset is any person place or thing within a particular enterprise community e.g. the technical community and the customer service representative community . Examples of assets that may be included for a technical community include databases logical models physical model extensible markup language XML structures software components documents metrics systems and interfaces. A resource is similar to an asset with the exception that resources come from outside of the enterprise or organization. Resources that may be included for a technical community include research services web services and packaged models. Enterprise business intelligence EBI may be built upon this foundation of assets and resources.

Currently notification that metadata about an item e.g. an asset or resource in a repository has been deleted added or modified is accomplished by a librarian sending an email from a list or posting the information on a site. The first method requires a librarian to keep an up to date list of interested parties for each item in a repository and to send an email to the parties on the list when the metadata has changed. The second method posting to a site is commonly referred to as a pull strategy which forces the user to come to the site without any notification. This second method may result in random delays in proliferating information into the enterprise.

According to an embodiment a method for implementing metadata subscription services is provided. The method includes receiving a notification subscription request containing an item selected from a plurality of items residing in a repository. The plurality of items is stored in hierarchically arranged levels of storage within the repository. The method also includes determining that metadata of the item has been modified and creating a notification including changes made with respect to the metadata and any others of the plurality of items residing in the repository at a storage level equal to a storage level of the item and any storage levels that are lower than the storage level of the item. The method further includes transmitting the notification to a user specified first address and transmitting a copy of the item including the changes to a user specified second address. The user specified second address is different than the user specified first address.

According to a further embodiment a system for implementing metadata subscription services is provided. The system includes a host system computer and an application executing on the host system computer. The application implements a method. The method includes receiving a notification subscription request containing an item selected from a plurality of items residing in a repository. The plurality of items is stored in hierarchically arranged levels of storage within the repository. The method also includes determining that metadata of the item has been modified and creating a notification including changes made with respect to the metadata and any others of the plurality of items residing in the repository at a storage level equal to a storage level of the item and any storage levels that are lower than the storage level of the item. The method further includes transmitting the notification to a user specified first address and transmitting a copy of the item including the changes to a user specified second address. The user specified second address is different than the user specified first address.

According to another embodiment a computer program product for implementing metadata subscription services is provided. The computer program product includes a storage medium readable by a processing circuit and storing instructions for execution by the processing circuit for facilitating a method. The method includes receiving a notification subscription request containing an item selected from a plurality of items residing in a repository. The plurality of items is stored in hierarchically arranged levels of storage within the repository. The method also includes determining that metadata of the item has been modified and creating a notification including changes made with respect to the metadata and any others of the plurality of items residing in the repository at a storage level equal to a storage level of the item and any storage levels that are lower than the storage level of the item. The method further includes transmitting the notification to a user specified first address and transmitting a copy of the item including the changes to a user specified second address. The user specified second address is different than the user specified first address.

Other systems methods and or computer program products according to exemplary embodiments will be or become apparent to one with skill in the art upon review of the following drawings and detailed description. It is intended that all such additional systems methods and or computer program products be included within this description be within the scope of the present invention and be protected by the accompanying claims.

In accordance with exemplary embodiments metadata subscription services are provided. Exemplary embodiments provide an automatic notification of update when existing items e.g. assets and resources in a repository are modified or newly added. Providing automatic notification may lead to a decrease in the time required to implement new functionality. Exemplary embodiments may also provide the ability to drop off the individual artifacts that make up the item. For example assume that an application utilizes XML to share data between two companies and that they share an XML schema. The ability to notify the other business unit of a related change and then to drop the new schema off in a designated location e.g. via a drop box utility may lead to a minimum amount of business disruption due to the changing schema. Typically email and a designated drop off box utility will be utilized to notify subscribers to changes in the items. Exemplary embodiments also provide for notification via a pager a telephone message e.g. text and data a cellular telephone and or a web site bulletin board.

The technology environment may be thought of as a holistic view of all the resources and assets recognized within the technology community. There are no real boundaries to this definition other than that a resource should have universal organizational value and an asset should belong to the enterprise. Examples of assets resources include database tables code libraries use cases documentation metric loads from local data stores and any other items that can be described by metadata. Generally speaking each asset should be housed within some form of a repository to ensure that the metadata information is accessible and can provide value throughout the life cycle of the asset.

The network may be any type of known network including but not limited to a wide area network WAN a local area network LAN a global network e.g. Internet a virtual private network VPN and an intranet. The network may be implemented using a wireless network or any kind of physical network implementation. A user system may be coupled to the host system through multiple networks e.g. intranet and Internet so that not all user systems are coupled to the host system through the same network. One or more of the user systems and the host system may be connected to the network in a wireless fashion.

The storage device may be implemented using a variety of devices for storing electronic information. It is understood that the storage device may be implemented using memory contained in the host system or the user system or it may be a separate physical device. The storage device is logically addressable as a consolidated data source across a distributed environment that includes a network . Information stored in the storage device may be retrieved and manipulated via the host system . The storage device includes data such as the subscription and notification software the repository metadata and the subscription data. In exemplary embodiments the repository is implemented using off the shelf repository systems such as Advantage Repository from Computer Associates Rochade from AG Software Solutions Metastage from Ascential Software and MetaCenter from Data Advantage Group. In addition embodiments may be utilized with repositories that are built by and customized for particular customers and or particular applications. The storage device may also include other kinds of data such as information concerning the updating and creation of the subscriptions. In exemplary embodiments the host system operates as a database server and coordinates access to application data including data stored on storage device .

The host system depicted in may be implemented using one or more servers operating in response to a computer program stored in a storage medium accessible by the server. The host system may operate as a network server e.g. a web server to communicate with the user system . The host system handles sending and receiving information to and from the user system and can perform associated tasks. The host system may also include a firewall to prevent unauthorized access to the host system and enforce any limitations on authorized access. For instance an administrator may have access to the entire system and have authority to modify portions of the system. A firewall may be implemented using conventional hardware and or software.

The host system may also operate as an application server. The host system executes one or more computer programs to perform subscription and notification. Processing may be shared by the user system and the host system by providing an application e.g. java applet to the user system . Alternatively the user system may include a stand alone software application for performing a portion or all of the processing described herein. As previously described it is understood that separate servers may be utilized to implement the network server functions and the application server functions. Alternatively the network server the firewall and the application server may be implemented by a single server executing computer programs to perform the requisite functions.

The sample repository depicted in is a customer service representative CSR repository with data used by customer representatives when they are assisting customers. The CSR repository includes several types of items including topics assets and artifacts these items are specific to the CSR repository and other types of items may be included in other repositories supported by exemplary embodiments of the present invention. The CSR repository includes several topics denoted with roman numerals a residential topic a small business topic and a large business topic . The CSR would utilize different topics depending on the type of customers that they support. One or more assets may be included within each topic. For example assets in the residential topic include an ordering a new digital subscriber line DSL service asset and a checking repair status asset . Each asset may also have one or more versions. For example asset versions in the ordering a new DSL service asset include a DSL version 1 asset version and a DSL version 2 asset version . Each asset version may include one or more artifacts and as depicted in the DSL version 1 asset version includes items such as software components technical documentation and users guide artifacts .

The repository depicted in is an example of a repository that may be utilized with exemplary embodiments of the present invention. The terminology used to describe items in the repository e.g. topic and artifacts is also exemplary in nature and other terminology may be utilized to describe items in a repository.

In addition to creating a notification that an item in the repository has been modified including updates to metadata associated with the item exemplary embodiments also provide a copy of any updated or newly added artifacts or any items at the lowest level of the hierarchy in the repository . The user may subscribe to this service as part of the notification service. In this manner new information such as technical documents user s guides and software code may be distributed quickly to interested parties.

The data relating to individual subscribers including information such as notification requests and addresses to send notifications may be stored in any suitable manner that allows for easy lookup of the data. For example the subscriber information may be stored in table format and located on the storage device . Alternatively the subscriber information may be stored in an indexed relational database and accessed via the storage device.

At block in an item of interest in the repository is modified. In exemplary embodiments a message is received from the repository that an item has been modified. The message may be created using off the shelf software. For example Microsoft Sharepoint provides a utility that creates a change management message when a document or artifact has been modified or checked back into the system. Here the repository is a document management system. In addition network monitoring applications such as IPSentry and UniCenter from Computer Associates provide message creation plug ins that create messages of application failure. When an item in the repository is modified the message is created and transmitted to the subscription service. The subscription service determines if any of the notifications set up by the user apply to the modification received in the message. This may be determined by accessing the table or database for information relating to the subscriptions and the items associated with the requested notifications. The determination is performed in an automated manner i.e. by a computer without requiring human intervention in response to receiving the message.

Block is performed when at least one of the notifications in the subscriptions is related to the item being modified. A notification that describes the modification is transmitted to the address associated with each of the notifications associated with the modification of the item. If the user has also subscribed to the service that provides a copy of any updated or newly added artifacts or any items at the lowest level of the hierarchy in the repository for this item then a copy will be transmitted to the address specified by the user. Both of the transmissions described above are performed in an automated manner by a computer without requiring human intervention to perform the transmission. The transmission occurs over any standard e mail application. Messages may be created via the application and then can be sent along an e mail infrastructure by using message based application programming interfaces APIs . Messaging to pagers will utilize the same e mail infrastructure with the exception of the pager company that will take the message from the e mail infrastructure and place it on the pager infrastructure for final delivery. Exemplary embodiments of the present invention utilize Microsoft Office standard API development utilities.

While described herein with respect to a repository for customer service representatives in a telecommunications company it will be understood by those skilled in the art that the metadata subscription services may be equally implemented in any environment that utilizes repositories for tracking data. For example the repository may contain computer system components such as system design documents user s guides and software code for a variety of applications and application versions within the computer system. In addition a user may be able to sign up for subscription services for more than one repository using exemplary embodiments.

As described above the metadata subscription services provide an automated manner of notifying interested parties when an item in a repository has changed. This can result in an efficient and timely manner of distributing information to the individuals who rely on items located in a repository.

As described above embodiments may be in the form of computer implemented processes and apparatuses for practicing those processes. In exemplary embodiments the invention is embodied in computer program code executed by one or more network elements. Embodiments include computer program code containing instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives or any other computer readable storage medium wherein when the computer program code is loaded into and executed by a computer the computer becomes an apparatus for practicing the invention. Embodiments include computer program code for example whether stored in a storage medium loaded into and or executed by a computer or transmitted over some transmission medium such as over electrical wiring or cabling through fiber optics or via electromagnetic radiation wherein when the computer program code is loaded into and executed by a computer the computer becomes an apparatus for practicing the invention. When implemented on a general purpose microprocessor the computer program code segments configure the microprocessor to create specific logic circuits.

While the invention has been described with reference to exemplary embodiments it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes may be made and equivalents may be substituted for elements thereof without departing from the scope of the invention. In addition many modifications may be made to adapt a particular situation or material to the teachings of the invention without departing from the essential scope thereof. Therefore it is intended that the invention not be limited to the particular embodiments disclosed for carrying out this invention but that the invention will include all embodiments falling within the scope of the claims.

