---

title: Interactive table to present multi-level relationships between data items
abstract: In one embodiment, a first selection of a data item in an interactive table is received. Further, one or more data items related to the first selected data item in the interactive table are identified. The interactive table is modified to render the data items identified as related to the first selected data item. Furthermore, a second selection of a data item within the data items identified as related to the first selected data item is received and one or more data items related to the second selected data item within the data items identified as related to the first selected data item are identified. Further, the previously modified interactive table is again modified to render the data items identified as related to the second selected data item.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09183231&OS=09183231&RS=09183231
owner: SAP SE
number: 09183231
owner_city: Walldorf
owner_country: DE
publication_date: 20121129
---
Embodiments generally relate to data presentation and more particularly to methods and systems to modify an interactive table for presenting multi level relationships between data items.

Data presentation such as data presentation in a graphical user interface GUI on a display device of a computer system facilitates a user in understanding and interpreting the data. Depending on the type of data the data is presented using different formats such as tables maps graphs charts and the like. In a scenario where high density dataset has to be presented tables are preferred. Presently tabular representation of data suffers from a number of limitations that affect their usefulness. In particular in a table having a number of rows and columns only a few may be of interest to the user. Further in line table controls that allow users to filter table information and to re arrange the table format limit the presentation of data based on manual selection of data items and do not provide relationships between the data items in the table.

Embodiments of techniques to modify an interactive table for presenting multi level relationships between data items are described herein. According to various embodiments the interactive table includes a plurality of cells arranged in rows and columns including data items to present data in a structured format. The data items can be data stored in a database associated with a business object of an application. The data item may include but not be limited to alphabets numbers special characters and any combination thereof. Further the interactive tables can be used both in stand alone computer environments and on a network such as the Web. According to one embodiment data items in the interactive table are displayed based on a user selection of a particular data item and relationships between the selected data item and other data items in the interactive table. In other words the data items related to the user selected data item are presented. Therefore the multi level relationships between the data items in the interactive table can be easily visualized.

Reference throughout this specification to one embodiment this embodiment and similar phrases means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one of the one or more embodiments. Thus the appearances of these phrases in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment. Furthermore the particular features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments.

In one embodiment the user is provided an option to select a first data item in the interactive table . Further for the selected first data item related data items in the interactive table are identified. For example the first data item A1 associated with a column A e.g. of the interactive table is selected. Upon receiving the selection of the first data item A1 data items e.g. B1 C1 C2 D1 and D2 related to the first data item A1 are identified. The identified data items e.g. B1 C1 C2 D1 and D2 are associated with at least one of the other columns e.g. including columns B C and D of the interactive table . Furthermore the interactive table is modified to include the identified data items e.g. B1 C1 C2 D1 and D2 as shown in the interactive table . Also the column A e.g. corresponding to the selected first data item A1 is retained in the modified interactive table . Therefore the first level of relationships between the selected first data item e.g. A1 and the data items e.g. B1 C1 C2 D1 and D2 can be easily visualized.

Further even though the identified data items e.g. B1 C1 C2 D1 and D2 are related to the first data item A1 the data items e.g. B1 C1 C2 D1 and D2 may or may not be related to each other. But they may have data items in the identified data items that they are related individually. So the user may further desire to drill down to view such data items that are related to the data items identified as being related to the first selected data item e.g. B1 C1 C2 D1 and D2 while also retaining the relationship with the first data item e.g. A1 .

In one embodiment the user is provided an option to select a second data item from the set of the data items identified as being related to the first selected data item. Based on the selection data items related to the second selected data item in the identified data items are identified and presented as shown in interactive table . For example if the second data item C1. is selected in the identified data items e.g. B1 C1 C2 D1 and D2 the data items e.g. B1 and D1associated with columns and related to the second selected data item C1 are automatically identified and presented. Further the column e.g. column A associated with the first selected data item A1 and a column e.g. column C associated with the second selected data item C1 are retained in the interactive table . In this manner the second level of relationships between the first selected data item e.g. A1 the second selected data item e.g. C1 and the data items e.g. B1 and D1 further related to the second data item e.g. C1 can be easily visualized. Therefore the multi level relationships between the data items in the interactive table can be visualized. The method of modifying interactive table to present multi level relationships between the data items is described in greater detail in .

At step a first selection of a data item in the interactive table is received. For example in the interactive table a first data item Tom is selected as shown in . At step one or more data items related to the first selected data item in the interactive table are identified. In one exemplary embodiment the data items are identified by analyzing a business object associated with the interactive table. For example in the data items related to the first selected data item Tom are identified. In the example data item I060100 in the column identity number data items user ID password test security profile and single sign on in the column security profiles and data items CRM SRM QM and PM in the column projects which are related to the first data item Tom are identified. In other words the column names is considered as the key column and the data items related to the data item tom are identified in the other columns e.g. identity number security profiles and projects of the interactive table .

At step the interactive table is modified to render the data items identified as related to the first selected data item to present relationships between the first selected data item and the data items identified as related to the first selected data item. For example the identified data items e.g. I060100 user ID password test security profile single sign on CRM SRM QM and PM are rendered with respect to one of identity number security profiles and projects colunms of an interactive table as shown in the modified interactive table of . Further the column corresponding to the first selected data item e.g. names is retained in the modified interactive table . Therefore the first level of data items related to the first selected data item Tom are presented. In other words an employee by name Tom having identity number I060100. is assigned three different types of security profiles e.g. userID password test security profile and single sign on for four projects e.g. CRM SRM QM and PM can be easily analyzed through the modified interactive table .

At step a second selection of a data item within the data items identified as related to the first selected data item is received. For example in the modified interactive table a second data item test security profile is selected as shown in . At step one or more data items related to the second selected data item within the data items identified as related to the first selected data item are identified. In one exemplary embodiment the data items are identified by analyzing the business object associated with the interactive table. For example the data items in the columns pertaining to identity number and projects of are analyzed to identify the data items related to the second selected data item test security profile . In the example data item I060100 in the column identity number and data item QM in the column projects which are related to the second selected data item test security profile are identified.

At step the previously modified interactive table is again modified to render the data items identified as related to the second selected data item to present relationships between the first selected data item the second selected data item and the data items identified as related to the second selected data item. For example the identified data items I060100 and QM related to the second selected data item test security profile are rendered with respect to one of identity number and projects columns of the interactive table as shown in the modified interactive table of . Further the column corresponding to the first selected data item e.g. column names of and the column corresponding to the second selected data item e.g. column security profiles of are retained in the modified interactive table . Therefore the second level of relationships between the first selected data item the second selected data item and the data items identified as related to the second selected data item can be easily visualized in the interactive table. In other words the security profile test security profile assigned to Tom with identity number I060100 to the project QM can be easily visualized.

In one embodiment modifying the interactive table includes displaying the modified interactive table on a computer generated graphical user interface. Further the computer generated graphical user interface includes an option to add and delete the data items in the modified interactive tables to establish new relationships between the data items which is described with an example in .

The additional portion facilitates modification addition and or deletion of the data items in the interactive table . For example a column projects in the interactive table originally included CRM SRM QM and PM . In one exemplary embodiment other projects can be added by dragging the data items from the additional portion to the interactive table as shown in e.g. project finance management FM is included by dragging the FM to the column projects . Therefore the data items to the interactive table can be easily added and or deleted from the modified interactive table and the modification is reflected in the business object associated with the interactive table.

In one embodiment a functionality to make the table easier to use by providing quick understanding of relationships between data items is described. Further a separate additional portion can be used to show the complete resource pool from which simple user interaction such as drag and drop and the like can be used to establish new relationships between the data items.

Some embodiments may include the above described methods being written as one or more software components. These components and the functionality associated with each may be used by client server distributed or peer computer systems. These components may be written in a computer language corresponding to one or more programming languages such as functional declarative procedural object oriented lower level languages and the like. They may be linked to other components via various application programming interfaces and then compiled into one complete application for a server or a client. Alternatively the components maybe implemented in server and client applications. Further these components may be linked together via various distributed programming protocols. Some example embodiments may include remote procedure calls being used to implement one or more of these components across a distributed programming environment. For example a logic level may reside on a first computer system that is remotely located from a second computer system containing an interface level e.g. a graphical user interface . These first and second computer systems can be configured in a server client peer to peer or some other configuration. The clients can vary in complexity from mobile and handheld devices to thin clients and on to thick clients or even other servers.

The above illustrated software components are tangibly stored on a computer readable storage medium as instructions. The term computer readable storage medium should be taken to include a single medium or multiple media that stores one or more sets of instructions. The term computer readable storage medium should be taken to include any physical article that is capable of undergoing a set of physical changes to physically store encode or otherwise carry a set of instructions for execution by a computer system which causes the computer system to perform any of the methods or process steps described represented or illustrated herein. Examples of computer readable storage media include but are not limited to magnetic media such as hard disks floppy disks and magnetic tape optical media such as CD ROMs DVDs and holographic devices magneto optical media and hardware devices that are specially configured to store and execute such as application specific integrated circuits ASICs programmable logic devices PLDs and ROM and RAM devices. Examples of computer readable instructions include machine code such as produced by a compiler and files containing higher level code that are executed by a computer using an interpreter. For example an embodiment may be implemented using Java C or other object oriented programming language and development tools. Another embodiment may be implemented in hard wired circuitry in place of or in combination with machine readable software instructions.

A data source is an information resource. Data sources include sources of data that enable data storage and retrieval. Data sources may include databases such as relational transactional hierarchical multi dimensional e.g. OLAP object oriented databases and the like. Further data sources include tabular data e.g. spreadsheets delimited text files data tagged with a markup language e.g. XML data transactional data unstructured data e.g. text files screen scrapings hierarchical data e.g. data in a file system XML data files a plurality of reports and any other data source accessible through an established protocol such as Open Data Base Connectivity ODBC produced by an underlying software system e.g. ERP system and the like. Data sources may also include a data source where the data is not tangibly stored or otherwise ephemeral such as data streams broadcast data and the like. These data sources can include associated data foundations semantic layers management systems security systems and so on.

In the above description numerous specific details are set forth to provide a thorough understanding of embodiments. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize however that the embodiments can be practiced without one or more of the specific details or with other methods components techniques etc. In other instances well known operations or structures are not shown or described in detail.

Although the processes illustrated and described herein include series of steps it will be appreciated that the different embodiments are not limited by the illustrated ordering of steps as some steps may occur in different orders some concurrently with other steps apart from that shown and described herein. In addition not all illustrated steps may be required to implement a methodology in accordance with the one or more embodiments. Moreover it will be appreciated that the processes may be implemented in association with the apparatus and systems illustrated and described herein as well as in association with other systems not illustrated.

The above descriptions and illustrations of embodiments including what is described in the Abstract is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the one or more embodiments to the precise forms disclosed. While specific embodiments of and examples for the one or more embodiments are described herein for illustrative purposes various equivalent modifications are possible within the scope as those skilled in the relevant art will recognize. These modifications can be made in light of the above detailed description. Rather the scope is to be determined by the following claims which are to be interpreted in accordance with established doctrines of claim construction.

