---

title: Gas gun fixture to evaluate blast wave on target sample
abstract: A test fixture is provided for mounting a sample to a gas gun. The fixture includes a gun barrel mount including an annular enclosure with first and second axial ends, and a sample platform. The mount connects to the gas gun at the first end. The sample platform includes a tubular component having third and fourth axial ends, a pusher disk, an end plate, and a flange. The disk supports the sample and mounts to the end plate. The flange removably attaches to the component at the third end. The end plate removably attaches to the component at the fourth end and to the enclosure at the second end.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08935963&OS=08935963&RS=08935963
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 08935963
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120730
---
The invention described was made in the performance of official duties by one or more employees of the Department of the Navy and thus the invention herein may be manufactured used or licensed by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

The invention relates generally to test fixtures for material response to blast waves exposure. In particular the invention relates to a gas gun barrel attachment to mount a target sample and provide instrumentation for blast measurements.

Traditional methods of measuring blast wave propagation through materials have involved the use of small explosive charges or a gas gun equipped with a Mylar or other burst diaphragm to generate the blast wave and complex target geometries such as instrumented mannequin heads wearing helmets coated with different test materials. There are three key disadvantages to these techniques 

3 complex target geometries introduce uncertainties in the data due to irregular flow of the blast wave around targets and into the interfaces between the helmets and the instrumented mannequin heads.

Conventional techniques for evaluating material exposure to blast wave yield disadvantages addressed by various exemplary embodiments of the present invention. Various exemplary embodiments provide adaptation to an existing gas gun with components equipped with a fast opening valve and greatly simplified target geometry. In particular such embodiments provide a test fixture for mounting a sample to a gas gun. The fixture includes a gun barrel mount including an annular enclosure with first and second axial ends and a sample platform.

The mount connects to the gas gun at the first end. The sample platform includes a tubular component having third and fourth axial ends a shock absorption disk and front rear flanges. The disk supports the sample and mounts to the rear flange. The front flange removably attaches to the component at the third end. The rear flange removably attaches to the component at the fourth end as well as to the enclosure at the second end. Other embodiments alternatively or additionally provide for pressure gauges for measuring pressure or triggering recordation.

In the following detailed description of exemplary embodiments of the invention reference is made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof and in which is shown by way of illustration specific exemplary embodiments in which the invention may be practiced. These embodiments are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the invention. Other embodiments may be utilized and logical mechanical and other changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the present invention. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of the present invention is defined only by the appended claims.

Exemplary embodiments provide an attachment mechanism for testing blast wave propagation from a conventional gas gun. Coupon samples serving as experimental targets can be installed to test the blast mitigation properties of materials subject to planar blast waves with pressures ranging from 5 psia to 100 psia. The embodiments provide a two part fixture consisting of a muzzle adapter and target assembly . The muzzle adapter attaches to an existing 1.575 inches bore diameter gas gun barrel located in the Shock Physics Facility at Naval Surface Warfare Center NSWC Dahlgren Division. Much of this information has been reported in Versatile Gas Gun Target Assembly for Studying Blast Wave Mitigation in Materials by S. Bartyczak and W. Mock Jr. 1426 501 2012 available at http scitation.aip.org getpdf servlet GetPDFServlet filetype pdf id APCPCS0014260 00001000501000001 idtype cvips doi 10.1063 1.3686327 prog normal. This document is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The muzzle adapter is fabricated from 6061 T6 Al aluminum alloy and has a 05.5 inches outer diameter and a length of 11.25 inches. The recess at the distal end has dimensions of 02.2 inches diameter 0.25 inch deep. The recess includes an O ring groove 1.78 inches inner diameter and 2.06 inches outer diameter 0.08 inch deep that contains a Parker 2 134 O ring to seal the barrel muzzle adapter joint at the distal end for blast pressure. This distal end of the muzzle adapter includes three 13 UNC threaded holes spaced 120 apart on a 4.25 inches diameter bolt circle for securing the muzzle adapter to the gun barrel.

The muzzle adapter has a 2.0 inches long transition region with expanding inside diameter to evaluate materials with a diameter larger than the 1.575 inch gun bore diameter. A larger target diameter enables maintaining one dimensional strain conditions in the target center for a longer time before release waves from the target edge reach the center. In this transition region the inside diameter of the muzzle adapter on the distal end increases from 1.63 inches to 4.25 inches corresponding to a 33.2 angle. The continuous 4.25 inches inner diameter extends to the target assembly end of the muzzle adapter a distance of 9.0 inches . This proximal end of the muzzle adapter has three 28 UNF threaded holes spaced 120 apart on a 4.85 inches diameter bolt circle for securing a target assembly thereto.

The three pressure gauges installed along the enclosure include the triggering transducer gauge and the measurement transducer gauges and for measuring blast wave velocity and pressure as the blast wave propagates towards the mounted target. These gauges are shown disposed 3 5 and 6 inches respectively from the distal end of the muzzle adapter . Standard PCB transducer mounting techniques can be used to secure the pressure gauges to the enclosure of the muzzle adapter .

The PMMA tube terminates at a front flange and a rear flange . These flanges and attach to the tube by screws . The target assembly further includes an accelerometer and a polytetra fluoroethylene PTFE disk . The accelerometer represents a model PCB Piezotronics 352C23. PTFE is a synthetic fluoropolymer of tetrafluoro ethylene. The front flange attaches to the proximal end of the muzzle adapter by the screws . PTFE rods connect the rear flange by threaded through holes to the disk . The rear flange also includes arc slots .

The rear flange attaches to the muzzle adapter with three steel bolts accompanied by plastic sleeves . The bolts insert into through holes . The flanges and are composed of 6061 T6 Al aluminum alloy and are secured to the tube with screws . The target disposed against the disk for exposure to the blast wave pushes against the front flange by tightening the PTFE rods . The front flange includes an annular opening to permit propagation of the blast wave towards the target .

Various exemplary embodiments provide an attachment to an existing gas gun to test the blast mitigation properties of materials subject to planar blast waves with pressures ranging from 5 psia to 100 psia. The pressure gauge PG measures the reflected blast pressure at the target edge. The exemplary embodiments provide a two part fixture consisting of the muzzle adapter and the target assembly . The design of the muzzle adapter includes a tapered transition region that enables the blast wave to expand from the 1.575 inches gun bore diameter to 4.25 inches and reform into a planar shock front.

2 enables adjustable positioning of the blast face of the target along the axis of the muzzle adapter 

4 includes an instrumentation suite designed to record initial material stress transmitted material stress material transit time reflected blast wave pressure and target acceleration.

The target assembly includes a PMMA tube with front blast wave side and rear 6061 T6 Al flanges that secure to the tube with screws . The target to be tested rests against the front flange that is open in the middle to enable the blast wave to impinge directly on the target . A PTFE disk with a front recess contacts the back of the target at its edge only. This ensures that the center rear of the target is a free surface.

The PTFE disk is held in position with three PTFE threaded rods that screw into threaded through holes in the rear flange . The threaded rods can be turned by hand enabling fine tune adjustment of the pressure that holds the target secure against the front flange . This enables a layered target to be tested without necessarily holding the layers together with epoxy.

The target assembly attaches to the muzzle adapter with the three steel bolts that pass through clearance holes at the edge of the rear flange . The standoff of the target assembly with respect to the muzzle adapter can be adjusted by using different length bolts with plastic sleeves . Using this procedure the position of the target assembly can be easily changed.

The exemplary PMMA tube is 4.5 inches long with a 3.0 inches inner diameter and a 3.5 inches outer diameter. There is a 0.375 inch gap between the inside diameter of the muzzle adapter and the outside diameter of the tube to permit blast overpressure to escape from the adapter . A 0.085 inch deep half moon slot in the outer wall of the tube is used to hold the pressure gauge PG flush with the front flange . Several longitudinal grooves in the inside wall of the tube enable the wires of thin film gauges or other instruments to pass through that may in alternate embodiments be placed in front of and or behind the target . These and other dimensions represent exemplary values and artisans of ordinary skill will recognize that they are not limiting.

The 0.125 inch thick front flange has a 3.5 inches outer diameter a 2.5 inches inner diameter and four clearance holes spaced 90 apart on a 3.25 inches diameter bolt circle for 2 56 UNC screws to attach the flange to the PMMA tube . This tube rests in a 0.1 inch deep recess in the rear flange and is secured with four 6 32 UNC screws spaced 90 apart on a 3.25 inches diameter bolt circle.

Six 0.19 inch wide slots on a 3.88 inch diameter circle in the rear flange ensure release of the blast wave. The three 6 inch long by 13 UNC PTFE threaded rods screw into threaded holes spaced 120 apart on a 2.28 inches diameter bolt circle in the rear flange . The 0.75 inch thick by 3.0 inches diameter PTFE target backup disk has a 2.5 inches diameter by 0.125 inch deep recess that contains the accelerometer for measuring the acceleration of the target system due to the blast wave. These dimensions are merely exemplary and artisans of ordinary skill will recognize that the components described herein can be scaled larger or smaller depending on the target and its test conditions.

The firing event begins when the fast acting ball valve in the gas gun is opened releasing high pressure gas from the gun breech. The released gas forms a planar blast wave that travels down the 1.575 inch bore diameter barrel until it reaches the distal end . A 2.0 inches long transition region in the muzzle adapter causes the blast wave to expand to 4.25 inches diameter slightly larger than the diameter of the target to permit the gas to escape.

This expansion of the blast wave causes turbulence in the flow of the blast pressure. The 4.25 inches bore in the muzzle adapter is 9.0 inches long to enable the turbulence to subside and the planar blast wave to reform prior to impact with the target assembly . The position of the target assembly can be adjusted along the length of the muzzle adapter in order to tailor its location for optimum flow characteristics.

The muzzle adapter is equipped with a trigger gauge to start the data acquisition system and two pressure gauges PG and PG to record incident pressure and velocity of the blast wave prior to impact with the target assembly. The target assembly is equipped with one pressure gauge PG to record reflected pressure and an accelerometer to record acceleration of the test sample . As the blast wave impacts the target assembly its pressure front expands around the target and escapes through a 0.375 inch gap between the target assembly and the muzzle adapter .

Initially a series of checkout experiments was conducted without a target assembly to determine the largest ball valve opening time without reducing the blast pressure appreciably. shows a graphical view of several transient pressure profiles. The abscissa represents time in microseconds s and the ordinate represents blast pressure in psig. The time is recorded with respect to initiation from the trigger gauge . The pressure responses for gauge PG are plotted for valve opening times 10 ms as line 20 ms as line 30 ms as line and 310 ms as line .

For a very long valve opening time on the order of many hundreds of milliseconds the compression wave in the gun barrel would not be expected to form into a blast wave at the target . For these tests the blast pressure was measured with gauge PG for selected valve opening times for a 60 psig breech pressure. As the valve opening time increases the blast wave slope amplitude and velocity decrease. Based on these results a 20 ms valve opening time was chosen for the blast wave experiments since the 10 ns and 20 ms profiles and respectively are very similar.

A series of experiments was subsequently performed to determine blast wave planarity for different target standoff positions in the muzzle adapter . For these experiments the target was removed and a supplemental pressure gauge PG not shown was mounted in the middle of a modified PTFE backup disk such that this gauge was in the same plane as gauge PG . To determine blast wave planarity the arrival time of the blast wave at this gauge PG was compared to that of gauge PG for selected standoff positions of the rear flange from the proximal end of the muzzle adapter . At 0 mm standoff the rear target flange attaches directly to the rear of the muzzle adapter . In this position the blast wave releases through the arc slots in the rear target flange . At this standoff position the front of the target was disposed 19 mm from gauge PG .

At 115 mm standoff the front of the target is flush with the proximal end of the muzzle adapter . In this configuration long bolts with plastic sleeves are used to stand off the rear target flange a distance of 115 mm from the distal end of the muzzle adapter . The blast wave planarity experiments were performed for 60 psig breech pressure. Satisfactory blast wave planarity was achieved for the 115 mm standoff position. In this position the blast wave arrived at gauge PG about 1 s prior to arriving at transducer gauge PG . The measured blast wave velocity was 397 m s 1302 ft s for this test.

After performing the impact planarity experiments layered target experiments were conducted for a breech pressure at 60 psig. The layered target consists of a 3.18 mm thick Sorbothane disk 50 durometer shore 00 sandwiched between two 3.1 mm thick 6061 T6 Al coupons. Sorbothane is a commercially available synthetic viscoelastic polymer used for shock attenuation and vibration isolation. For these tests the Sorbothane material was covered with the aluminum coupons to preclude or mitigate non uniform deformation under blast. The aluminum coupons consist of 2.3 mm and 0.8 mm thick aluminum disks with a polyvinylidene fluoride PVDF thin film polymer stress gauge not shown between them. The PVDF gauges from Dynasen Inc. of Goleta Calif. measure the input and output stresses in the sample material of the target .

A damping coefficient of 0.074 using the first two periods of the plot was calculated from these data. The damped natural frequency of the system was 12 kHz 83 s period . For the purposes of analysis the target responds to a long duration pulse as measured by the gauge PG due to the 250 s blast pulse duration being three times the 83 s system period. Because the damping coefficient varies between zero and unity this result suggests that minimum damping is achieved with this target configuration and low 7.7 psig reflected pressure. A damping coefficient can be obtained for the system from this damped sinusoidal vibration. Time is measured with respect to the trigger pulse as determined by the trigger gauge .

Due to the recent conflicts in the Middle East and the threat of improvised explosive devices IEDs the incidence of blast related injuries is increasing as is the need for research to develop blast mitigating materials. Various exemplary embodiments have the potential to be used commercially by other facilities using gas guns to characterize blast wave attenuation of the new materials developed.

The purpose of various exemplary embodiments is to provide a capability for using an existing gas gun to test the blast mitigation properties of materials with the end goal of identifying materials suitable for military armor to protect war fighters from blast related injuries. The advantages of various exemplary embodiments include 

1 the design adapts to an existing gas gun that uses a fast opening valve and non explosive nitrogen and helium gases to generate the blast wave thereby eliminating the safety and environmental hazards associated explosive charges and the poor repeatability issues associated Mylar burst diaphragms 

2 a unique target assembly design that enables a a test sample to be located at any position in the muzzle adapter in a continuous manner by simple screw adjustment b test samples of different thicknesses to be easily inserted into the target assembly for measurement and c a sandwich test sample target to be held together in the target assembly by simple screw adjustment.

While certain features of the embodiments of the invention have been illustrated as described herein many modifications substitutions changes and equivalents will now occur to those skilled in the art. It is therefore to be understood that the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications and changes as fall within the true spirit of the embodiments.

