---

title: Pluggable route-planning module
abstract: Among other things, one or more techniques and/or systems are provided for configuring a route-planning module using one or more configuration plug-ins. The route-planning module may be configured to create a driving route, an internet packet route, a social event route, and/or a variety of other routes. A graph used by the route-planning module to create a route may be modified by a graph configuration plug-in, which may add, remove, and/or modify nodes and/or edges within the graph. Attributes associated with edges and/or nodes within the graph may be added, removed, and/or modified by an attribute configuration plug-in. Costs associated with edges and/or turns from a first edge to a second edge at a node may be modified by a cost configuration plug-in. In this way, the route-planning module may be customized using one or more configuration plug-ins (e.g., to accommodate user preferences).
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09037399&OS=09037399&RS=09037399
owner: Microsoft Technology Licensing, LLC
number: 09037399
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120620
---
Many applications web pages and or web services may provide route planning functionality. For example route planning functionality may be used to for traffic routing internet packet routing software installation planning building construction planning social event planning and or other various applications. In one example a map application may provide a textual and or visual driving route from a starting location to a destination location associated with a map. In another example a vacation planning service may provide a vacation schedule for a user while on vacation e.g. a boat ride event followed by a tour event followed by lunch etc. . Unfortunately current route planning functionality may not provide adequate customization of routing logic used by the route planning functionality. For example a map application may merely take into account historical and or measured traffic information when planning a driving route but may not take into account customized information that may be used to configure the routing logic used by the map application.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key factors or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Among other things one or more systems and or techniques for configuring a route planning module using one or more configuration plug ins are provided herein. The route planning module may be configured to create various types of routes such as a driving route associated with a traffic map an internet packet route associated with an internet infrastructure a vacation activity route e.g. a vacation plan such as meals bed times rise times hiking museum trips and or ordering thereof etc. and or a variety of other routes. The route planning module may be configured using a graph configuration plug in an attribute configuration plug in and or a cost configuration plug in for example. Such configuration plug ins may be used to modify routing logic utilized by the route planning module to create a route from a starting node to a destination node within a graph comprising one or more nodes connected by one or more edges such as directed edges. For example a configuration plug in may modify the graph modify attributes associated with edges and or nodes within the graph and or modify cost functions used to select edges and or turns for a route for example.

In one example of configuring the route planning module a graph configuration plug in may be used to customize a graph utilized by the route planning module to create a route. In particular a determination may be made as to whether graph configuration data of the graph configuration plug in adheres to a graph editing convention e.g. a syntax check . For example the graph editing convention may specify a graph representation format that is compatible with the route planning module e.g. if the graph configuration data does not adhere to the graph editing convention then the graph configuration data may be incompatible with the route planning module . Responsive to the graph configuration data adhering to the graph editing convention the graph configuration plug in may be applied to the graph to create a modified graph. That is a structure of the graph may be modified based upon graph configuration data specified by the graph configuration plug in e.g. a node and or an edge may be added removed and or modified . For example one or more street edges associated with a residential attribute may be removed from a map graph based upon the graph configuration data specifying that a truck driver is restricted from driving through residential areas. In this way the route planning module may create the route based upon the modified graph.

In another example of configuring the route planning module an attribute configuration plug in may be used to customize a collection of attributes associated with a directed edge within a graph e.g. the modified graph utilized by the route planning module to create the route. In particular a determination may be made as to whether attribute configuration data of the attribute configuration plug in adheres to an attribute editing convention e.g. a syntax check . For example the attribute editing convention may specify an attribute representation format that is compatible with the route planning module e.g. if the attribute configuration data does not adhere to the attribute editing convention then the attribute configuration data may be incompatible with the route planning module . Responsive to the attribute configuration data adhering to the attribute editing convention the attribute configuration plug in may be applied to the collection of attributes associated with the directed edge to create a modified collection of attributes for the directed edge. That is the collection of attributes may be modified based upon attribute configuration data specified by the attribute configuration plug in e.g. an attribute and or a value of an attribute may be added removed and or modified . For example a one way street attribute may be added to a collection of attributes associated with a street edge based upon the attribute configuration data specifying that a portion of a street represented by the street edge is a one way street. It may be appreciated that the attribute configuration plug in may be applied to attributes associated with one or more directed edges and or one or more nodes within the graph. In this way the route planning module may create the route based upon the modified collection of attributes.

In another example of configuring the route planning module a cost configuration plug in may be used to customize costs associated with directed edges and or turns e.g. a turn at a node from a first edge to a second edge within a graph e.g. the modified graph utilized by the route planning module to create the route. In particular a determination may be made as to whether cost configuration data of the cost configuration plug in adheres to a cost editing convention e.g. a syntax check . For example the cost editing convention may specify a cost function format that is compatible with the route planning module e.g. if the cost configuration data does not adhere to the cost editing convention then the cost configuration data may be incompatible with the route planning module . In one example responsive to the cost configuration data adhering to the cost editing convention the cost configuration plug in may be applied to a turn cost associated with a node within the graph to create a modified turn cost for the node. That is cost configuration data specified by e.g. fed into the cost configuration plug in may be applied to attributes associated with a first directed edge and or a second directed edge connected to the node resulting in a modified turn cost representing a cost associated with turning from the first directed edge to the second directed edge at the node e.g. turn cost could be increased if turning from the first directed edge to the second directed edge at the node corresponds to a left hand turn where a user defined preference for example within the cost configuration data is not to make left hand turns . In another example the cost configuration plug in may be applied to a collection of attributes associated with a directed edge within the graph to create a modified edge cost for the directed edge. That is a modified edge cost may be determined by applying cost configuration data specified by the cost configuration plug in to the collection of attributes for the directed edge e.g. an inner product may be calculated for numerical values associated with the cost configuration data and or the attributes . In this way the route planning module may create the route based upon one or more modified turn costs for nodes and or one or more modified edge costs for directed edges. The route planning module may take such costs into consideration when planning the route such as a low cost route for example.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends the following description and annexed drawings set forth certain illustrative aspects and implementations. These are indicative of but a few of the various ways in which one or more aspects may be employed. Other aspects advantages and novel features of the disclosure will become apparent from the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the annexed drawings.

The claimed subject matter is now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are generally used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the claimed subject matter. It may be evident however that the claimed subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances structures and devices are illustrated in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the claimed subject matter.

A route planning module may be configured to create various types of routes such as a traffic route an internet packet route a social planning route e.g. a route plan sequence ordering etc. of activities to do during a vacation and or other types of routes. The route planning module may create the route based upon a graph. The graph may comprise one or more nodes connected by edges such as directed edges. For example a traffic graph may comprise one or more intersection nodes representing intersections connected by street edges representing streets or portions thereof. In this way the route planning module may create a route from a starting node to a destination node within the graph by assigning and or evaluating costs associated with edges and or nodes. A cost may be derived from attributes associated with edges and or nodes e.g. a relatively high cost may be assigned to a street edge associated with a 25 MPH attribute while a relatively low cost may be assigned to a street edge associated with a 45 MPH attribute . Unfortunately current route planning modules may not provide a pluggable architecture for configuration plug ins that may otherwise customize route planning logic utilized by route planning modules.

Accordingly one or more systems and or techniques for configuring a route planning module are provided herein. In one example a graph used by a route planning module to create a route plan etc. may be modified by a graph configuration plug in e.g. edges and or nodes may be added removed and or modified within the graph . In another example a collection of attributes associated with a directed edge within the graph may be modified by an attribute configuration plug in e.g. attributes and or values of attributes may be added removed and or modified for the directed edge . The attribute configuration plug in may be configured to modify attributes associated with directed edges and or nodes within the graph. In another example an edge cost associated with a directed edge may be modified by a cost configuration plug in e.g. the edge cost of the directed edge may be increased based upon the directed edge being associated with an undesirable attribute . In another example a turn cost associated with turning from a first directed edge to a second directed edge at a node may be modified based the cost configuration plug in. In this way the route planning module may be configured based upon one or more configuration plug ins.

It may be appreciated that the route planning module may be used to plan various types of routes where a route may represent a sequence of abstract points events nodes etc. that may be distributed in space and or time e.g. with relative and or absolute spatial and or temporal attributes aspects etc. . In one example an application installation module may plan a route e.g. a sequence of application components such as subcomponents and or prerequisites for installation of a software application. In another example a building construction module may plan a building construction route e.g. a sequence of building components tasks projects sub projects etc. that are to be installed performed etc. to create a building . In another example a database query module may construct a query route e.g. an algebraic formula to mitigate query time to a database . In this way the route planning module may determine a desired e.g. optimized low cost short etc. sequence of abstract points as the route.

The route planning module may be configured to load the graph . For example the coordinates may be associated with a map. The route planning module may identify the graph for loading based upon a determination that the graph represents the map e.g. the graph may comprise the starting node and or the ending node associated with the coordinates . It may be advantageous to customize route planning logic used by the route planning module to create the route . In one example a trucking company may desire to modify the route planning logic to avoid left turns and or take into account a truck clearance height of 15 feet for overpasses. In another example a family planning a vacation may desire to modify the route planning logic to take into account restroom stops sightseeing locations and or shopping boutiques.

Accordingly the system may comprise a plug in component configured to apply one or more configuration plug ins to the route planning module . Because various users e.g. an individual a trucking company a vacation planning company an IT administrator social event planner etc. may create configuration plug ins the plug in component may be configured to determine whether data of a configuration plug in adheres to an editing convention e.g. a graph editing convention an attribute editing convention and or a cost editing convention etc. . The editing convention may specify a format e.g. a syntax that is compatible with the route planning module e.g. a format for representing graphs attributes and or cost functions . Responsive to the data of a configuration plug in not adhering to an editing convention the configuration plug in may be restricted from accessing the route planning module .

In one example of applying a configuration plug in the plug in component may be configured to determine whether graph configuration data of a graph configuration plug in adheres to a graph editing convention e.g. a format for representing graphs . Responsive to the graph configuration data of the graph configuration plug in adhering to the graph editing convention the plug in component may load the graph configuration plug in . That is the plug in component may apply the graph configuration plug in to the graph to create a modified graph . In particular the graph configuration plug in may modify a structure of the graph based upon graph configuration data e.g. directed edge and or nodes may be removed added and or modified within the graph . In one example the graph configuration data may be extracted from a source external to the route planning module e.g. a geographic survey company may provide updated information regarding a new highway to the graph configuration plug in .

In one example of creating the modified graph the graph configuration plug in may comprise graph configuration data specifying that a truck is restricted from traveling in residential areas and or that a new highway has been opened. The graph configuration plug in may remove one or more nodes and or directed edges associated with a residential attribute from the graph and or may add one or more nodes and or directed edges associated with the new highway to the graph . In this way the route planning module may utilize the modified graph in creating the route .

In another example of applying a configuration plug in the plug in component may be configured to determine whether attribute configuration data of an attribute configuration plug in adheres to an attribute editing convention e.g. a format for representing attributes . Responsive to the attribute configuration data of the attribute configuration plug in adhering to the attribute editing convention the plug in component may load the attribute configuration plug in . That is the plug in component may apply the attribute configuration plug in to a collection of attributes associated with a directed edge e.g. within the modified graph to create a modified collection of attributes for the directed edge. In particular the attribute configuration plug in may modify the collection of attributes based upon attribute configuration data specified by the attribute configuration plug in e.g. add a new attribute remove an attribute modify an attribute and or modify a value of an attribute . It may be appreciated that the attribute configuration plug in may be configured to modify attributes associated with one or more directed edges and or one or more nodes e.g. within the modified graph .

In one example of creating the modified collection of attributes the attribute configuration plug in may comprise attribute configuration data specifying that restrooms and or breakfast locations are desired. The attribute configuration plug in may add a restroom attribute and or a breakfast restaurant attribute to collections of attributes associated with respective directed edges and or nodes e.g. within the modified graph . In one example the attribute configuration plug in may add remove and or modify values for such attributes. In this way the route planning module may utilize the modified collection of attributes when creating the route .

In another example of applying a configuration plug in the plug in component may be configured to determine whether cost configuration data of a cost configuration plug in adheres to a cost editing convention e.g. a format for representing cost functions . Responsive to the cost configuration data of the cost configuration plug in adhering to the cost editing convention the plug in component may load the cost configuration plug in . It may be appreciated that the cost configuration plug in may be applied to edge costs associated with directed edges e.g. a cost to travel a street or portion thereof and or turn costs associated with nodes e.g. a cost to turn from a first street to a second street at an intersection .

In one example of applying the cost configuration plug in to a directed edge the plug in component may apply the cost configuration plug in to the modified collection of attributes associated with the directed edge to create a modified edge cost e.g. modified cost for the directed edge. In particular cost configuration data of e.g. weights that may be applied to attributes specified by the cost configuration plug in may be applied to the modified collection of attributes of the directed edge to create the modified edge cost e.g. an inner product may be calculated between the modified collection of attributes and the cost configuration data to create the modified edge cost . In one example of creating the modified edge cost the cost configuration data of the cost configuration plug in may comprise a user defined preference specifying that a truck is unable to pass under overpasses lower than 15 feet. The cost configuration plug in may apply a relatively high cost to overpass attributes that are lower than 15 feet thus resulting in a relatively high cost for nodes and or direct edges having an overpass attribute lower than 15 feet e.g. other relatively low costing nodes and or directed edges may be selected over such relatively high costing nodes and or directed edges for inclusion within the route .

In one example of applying the cost configuration plug in to a turn cost the plug in component may apply the cost configuration plug in to a turn cost associated with a node e.g. within the modified graph to create a modified turn cost e.g. modified cost for the node. In particular cost configuration data e.g. weights that may be applied to attributes specified by the cost configuration plug in may be applied to the turn cost associated for the node to create the modified turn cost e.g. weights from the cost configuration data of may be applied to attributes associated with the node a first edge and or a second edge associated with the turn which may be used to determine such as through an inner product the modified turn cost . In one example of creating the modified turn cost the cost configuration data of the cost configuration plug in may comprise a user defined preference specifying that roads with speed limits above 40 MPH are desired. The cost configuration plug in may apply a relatively low cost to a turn cost associated with turning from a first street edge having a 25 MPH speed limit to a second street edge having a 50 MPH speed limit at an intersection node. In this way the route planning module may utilize the modified costs when creating the route .

One embodiment of configuring a route planning module with a cost configuration plug in is illustrated by an exemplary method in . At the method starts. A route planning module may be configured to create a route within a graph. The graph may comprise one or more nodes connected by one or more directed edges. The cost configuration plug in may be configured to modify an edge cost associated with a directed edge within the graph. The edge cost may represent a cost associated with traveling the directed edge within the route. The edge cost may be a function of costs associated with attributes for the directed edge e.g. the edge cost may be a function of a relatively high cost associated with a construction zone attribute a relatively high cost associated with a 25 MPH speed limit attribute and or a relatively low cost associated with a two way street attribute . The route planning module may take into account edge costs associated with directed edges within the graph when determining the route. For example the route may be created based upon a low cost edge from a starting node to a destination node within the graph. Accordingly the cost configuration plug in may modify an edge cost based upon cost configuration data e.g. an edge cost of a street edge associated with a construction zone attribute may be increased based upon the cost configuration data comprising a user defined preference to avoid construction zones .

At a determination may be made as to whether cost configuration data of the cost configuration plug in adheres to a cost editing convention. For example the cost editing convention may be used to determine whether cost configuration data of the cost configuration plug in represents information such as a cost function in a format that is compatible with the route planning module. At responsive to the cost configuration data of the cost configuration plug in adhering to the cost editing convention the cost configuration plug in may be applied to a collection of attributes associated with the directed edge within the graph to create a modified edge cost for the directed edge. In particular cost configuration data e.g. weights that may be applied to attributes of the directed edge specified by the cost configuration plug in may be applied to the collection of attributes. For example an inner product may be calculated between the collection of attributes and the cost configuration data e.g. which may comprise user defined preferences to create the modified edge cost.

In one example the cost configuration plug in may be configured to modify a turn cost associated with turning from a first directed edge to a second directed edge at a node e.g. a cost to turn from a first street edge to a second street edge at an intersection node . The cost configuration data of the cost configuration plug in may be applied to the turn cost for the node to create a modified turn cost. In particular cost configuration data e.g. weights that may be applied to attributes of the node the first directed edge and or the second directed edge specified by the cost configuration plug in may be applied to the turn cost. For example the cost configuration data e.g. which may comprise user defined preferences may be applied to attributes associated with the node the first directed edge and or the second directed edge. In this way the route planning module may take into account one or more modified edge costs and or one or more modified turn costs when creating the route. At the method ends.

The traffic graph may comprise one or more street edges such as a street edge and or other street edges. A street edge may correspond to one or more intersection nodes e.g. the street edge may correspond to the starting intersection node and or the intersection node with which the street edge is connected and or a collection of attributes. For example street edge may correspond to a 15 foot overpass attribute a tunnel attribute a 45 MPH speed limit attribute and or other attributes not illustrated. It may be appreciated that example merely illustrates one or more attributes associated with street edges and that other attributes not illustrated may be associated with street edges and or intersection nodes e.g. and that applications other than streets and or intersections are contemplated herein and thus to be included within the scope of the appended claims .

A user may specify user specifications for the route. For example a vacation planner may desire to take a trip in a minivan. The vacation planner may specify within the user specifications that the driver is driving a minivan requiring a 12 foot clearance that industrial districts are to be avoided that at least one restroom stop is desired that speed limits over 40 MPH are preferred that at least one restaurant stop is desired etc. Accordingly one or more configuration plug ins e.g. which may be associated with configuration data that may comprise at least some of the user specifications may be utilized to modify the graph attributes associated with street edges and or intersection nodes and or costs associated with street edges and or turns. In this way the route planning module may plan the route based upon the user specifications .

In one example the graph configuration plug in may comprise graph configuration data specifying that a driver desires to avoid industrial districts. The plug in component may be configured to determine whether graph configuration data of the graph configuration plug in adheres to a graph editing convention . Responsive to the graph configuration data of the graph configuration plug in adhering to the graph editing convention the plug in component may be configured to apply the graph configuration plug in to the traffic graph to create the modified graph . For example the graph configuration plug in may remove one or more street edges and or one or more intersection nodes within the traffic graph that correspond to an industrial district attribute e.g. a first street edge a first intersection node a second street edge and or a third street edge . In this way the modified traffic graph e.g. without street edges and or intersection nodes having an industrial district attribute may be used by the route planning module to create the route from the starting node to the destination node while mitigating the use of industrial districts.

In one example the attribute configuration plug in may comprise attribute configuration data specifying that a restaurant attribute is to be added to the collection of attributes that an overpass attribute for the street edge has been changed to 10 feet that a location attribute is to be removed etc. For example the attribute configuration data may be based upon information specifying that a driver desires to stop at a restaurant while traveling and that the driver does not have a preference with regard to the type of location that will be traveled e.g. industrial commercial residential etc. . The attribute configuration data may also be based upon geographic survey information specifying that an overpass along a portion of a street represented by the street edge is 10 feet as opposed to 15 feet.

The plug in component may be configured to determine whether attribute configuration data of the attribute configuration plug in adheres to an attribute editing convention . Responsive to the attribute configuration data of the attribute configuration plug in adhering to the attribute editing convention the plug in component may be configured to apply the attribute configuration plug in to the collection of attributes for the street edge to create the modified collection of attributes for the street edge. For example the attribute configuration plug in may remove a location attribute modify a value of an overpass attribute from 15 feet to 10 feet and or add a new restaurant attribute with a value of two breakfast diners to create the modified collection of attributes . In this way the route planning module may take the modified collection of attributes into account when creating the route.

A plug in component may be configured to apply the cost configuration plug in to the edge cost for the street edge e.g. an edge cost derived from a modified collection of attributes for the street edge to create the modified edge cost for the street edge. In this way the modified edge cost may reflect cost configuration data e.g. the modified edge cost may comprise an increased value based upon the street edge being associated with an attribute that is undesirable to a user as specified by a user defined preference within the cost configuration data .

In one example the cost configuration plug in may comprise cost configuration data that comprises one or more user defined preferences specifying that street edges corresponding to an overpass attribute having a value smaller than 12 feet are undesirable e.g. and are to be assigned a 500 cost because a driver may be unable to drive under such an overpass that street edges corresponding to a restroom attribute having a value of 0 are undesirable e.g. and are to be assigned a 90 cost because a driver may desire to stop at a restroom during the trip and or that street edges corresponding to a speed limit attribute having a value greater than 40 MPH are desirable e.g. and are to be assigned a 20 cost per 5 MPH over 40 MPH .

The plug in component may be configured to determine whether cost configuration data of the cost configuration plug in adheres to a cost editing convention . Responsive to the cost configuration data of the cost configuration plug in adhering to the cost editing convention the plug in component may be configured to apply the cost configuration plug in to the edge cost for the street edge to create the modified edge cost for the street edge. In particular the cost configuration plug in may apply weights associated with the cost configuration data e.g. which may comprise user defined preferences to the modified collection of attributes . For example the cost configuration plug in may assign a 20 cost to the speed limit attribute because the speed limit attribute may comprise a value of 45 MPH e.g. 5 MPH over the desired 40 MPH . The cost configuration plug in may assign a 550 cost to the overpass attribute because the overpass attribute may comprise a value of 10 feet e.g. 2 feet below the desired 12 feet overpass height . The cost configuration plug in may assign a 90 cost to the restroom attribute because the restroom attribute may comprise a value of 0 e.g. 1 less restroom than desired . It may be appreciated that other costs may be assigned to other attributes. The costs assigned to the attributes may be used to create the modified edge cost e.g. the costs may be summed together to create a value for the modified edge cost . In this way the route planning module may take the modified edge cost into account when creating the route.

The route planning module may create the route based upon the modified graph which may have been created by a graph configuration plug in e.g. the graph configuration plug in may have added removed and or modified nodes and or directed edges within a graph to create the modified graph based upon graph configuration data . The route planning module may take into account the modified collections of attributes which may have been created by an attribute configuration plug in e.g. the attribute configuration plug in may have added removed and or modified attributes associated with directed edges and or nodes based upon attribute configuration data . The route planning module may take into account modified directed edge costs and or modified turn costs which may have been created by a cost configuration plug in e.g. the cost configuration plug in may have modified costs associated with directed edges and or turns based upon cost configuration data which may comprise user defined preferences . In this way the route planning module may create the route based upon customization provided by one or more configuration plug ins.

It may be appreciated that while examples herein pertain to traffic routes such as travelling on roadways the instant application including the scope of the appended claims is not intended to be so limited. That is a route is not limited to the context of a road but instead may comprise or correspond to any arrangement of points events nodes etc. that may be distributed in space and or time. For example a route may pertain to an order of events associated with installing software a computer program and or the like an order of completing tasks associated with a construction project an order or sequence of events performed as part of a vacation plan etc. That is planning creating etc. a route etc. as provided herein e.g. using a route planning module is not limited to a road street etc. context.

Still another embodiment involves a computer readable medium comprising processor executable instructions configured to implement one or more of the techniques presented herein. An exemplary computer readable medium that may be devised in these ways is illustrated in wherein the implementation comprises a computer readable medium e.g. a CD R DVD R or a platter of a hard disk drive on which is encoded computer readable data . This computer readable data in turn comprises a set of computer instructions configured to operate according to one or more of the principles set forth herein. In one such embodiment the processor executable computer instructions may be configured to perform a method such as at least some of the exemplary method of for example. In another such embodiment the processor executable instructions may be configured to implement a system such as at least some of the exemplary system of for example. Many such computer readable media may be devised by those of ordinary skill in the art that are configured to operate in accordance with the techniques presented herein.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

As used in this application the terms component module system interface and the like are generally intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a controller and the controller can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers.

Furthermore the claimed subject matter may be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement the disclosed subject matter. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. Of course those skilled in the art will recognize many modifications may be made to this configuration without departing from the scope or spirit of the claimed subject matter.

Although not required embodiments are described in the general context of computer readable instructions being executed by one or more computing devices. Computer readable instructions may be distributed via computer readable media discussed below . Computer readable instructions may be implemented as program modules such as functions objects Application Programming Interfaces APIs data structures and the like that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Typically the functionality of the computer readable instructions may be combined or distributed as desired in various environments.

In other embodiments device may include additional features and or functionality. For example device may also include additional storage e.g. removable and or non removable including but not limited to magnetic storage optical storage and the like. Such additional storage is illustrated in by storage . In one embodiment computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein may be in storage . Storage may also store other computer readable instructions to implement an operating system an application program and the like. Computer readable instructions may be loaded in memory for execution by processing unit for example.

The term computer readable media as used herein includes computer storage media. Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions or other data. Memory and storage are examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM Digital Versatile Disks DVDs or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by device . Any such computer storage media may be part of device .

Device may also include communication connection s that allows device to communicate with other devices. Communication connection s may include but is not limited to a modem a Network Interface Card NIC an integrated network interface a radio frequency transmitter receiver an infrared port a USB connection or other interfaces for connecting computing device to other computing devices. Communication connection s may include a wired connection or a wireless connection. Communication connection s may transmit and or receive communication media.

The term computer readable media may include communication media. Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal may include a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal.

Device may include input device s such as keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device infrared cameras video input devices and or any other input device. Output device s such as one or more displays speakers printers and or any other output device may also be included in device . Input device s and output device s may be connected to device via a wired connection wireless connection or any combination thereof. In one embodiment an input device or an output device from another computing device may be used as input device s or output device s for computing device .

Components of computing device may be connected by various interconnects such as a bus. Such interconnects may include a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI such as PCI Express a Universal Serial Bus USB firewire IEEE 1394 an optical bus structure and the like. In another embodiment components of computing device may be interconnected by a network. For example memory may be comprised of multiple physical memory units located in different physical locations interconnected by a network.

Those skilled in the art will realize that storage devices utilized to store computer readable instructions may be distributed across a network. For example a computing device accessible via a network may store computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein. Computing device may access computing device and download a part or all of the computer readable instructions for execution. Alternatively computing device may download pieces of the computer readable instructions as needed or some instructions may be executed at computing device and some at computing device .

Various operations of embodiments are provided herein. In one embodiment one or more of the operations described may constitute computer readable instructions stored on one or more computer readable media which if executed by a computing device will cause the computing device to perform the operations described. The order in which some or all of the operations are described should not be construed as to imply that these operations are necessarily order dependent. Alternative ordering will be appreciated by one skilled in the art having the benefit of this description. Further it will be understood that not all operations are necessarily present in each embodiment provided herein.

Moreover the word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as advantageous over other aspects or designs. Rather use of the word exemplary is intended to present concepts in a concrete fashion. As used in this application the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . That is unless specified otherwise or clear from context X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is if X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B then X employs A or B is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims may generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form. Also at least one of A and B and or the like generally means A or B or both A and B.

Also although the disclosure has been shown and described with respect to one or more implementations equivalent alterations and modifications will occur to others skilled in the art based upon a reading and understanding of this specification and the annexed drawings. The disclosure includes all such modifications and alterations and is limited only by the scope of the following claims. In particular regard to the various functions performed by the above described components e.g. elements resources etc. the terms used to describe such components are intended to correspond unless otherwise indicated to any component which performs the specified function of the described component e.g. that is functionally equivalent even though not structurally equivalent to the disclosed structure which performs the function in the herein illustrated exemplary implementations of the disclosure. In addition while a particular feature of the disclosure may have been disclosed with respect to only one of several implementations such feature may be combined with one or more other features of the other implementations as may be desired and advantageous for any given or particular application. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes having has with or variants thereof are used in either the detailed description or the claims such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising. 

