---

title: Anonymous customer reference client
abstract: A system and methodology that facilitates management and utilization of variable subscriber identifiers (V-SubIds) for protecting subscriber privacy is disclosed herein. In one aspect, an Anonymous Customer Reference (ACR) component receives a V-SubId, which is a short-lived subscriber identifier that is to be inserted in a communication messages transmitted from a user equipment instead of a unique device identifier (UDID) of the user equipment. On expiration of the V-SubId, a new V-SubId is received and utilized in subsequent communication messages transmitted from the user equipment. Further, trusted systems/applications can exchange the V-SubId for a subscriber identifier (SubId) associated with the user equipment. Furthermore, untrusted systems/applications can exchange, based on user authorization, the V-SubId for an application-specific ACR that remains static and/or valid for a predefined time period. Moreover, the application-specific ACR is utilized as a device identifier for the user equipment in subsequent communication messages for the predefined time period.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09031539&OS=09031539&RS=09031539
owner: AT&T Intellectual Property I, L.P.
number: 09031539
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120529
---
This application is related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 445 714 filed on Apr. 12 2012 entitled ANONYMOUS CUSTOMER REFERENCE SERVICES ENABLER now U.S. Pat. No. 8 718 607 issued on 6 May 2014 and co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 594 161 filed on 24 Aug. 2012 entitled ALGORITHM BASED ANONYMOUS CUSTOMER REFERENCES. The entireties of each of the foregoing applications are incorporated herein by reference.

The subject disclosure relates to wireless communications and more particularly to an anonymous customer reference client.

Communication devices are seeing an explosive growth in application app development and utilization. The applications or apps can be pre installed on the communication device by a manufacturer and or downloaded by subscribers for example via an over the air OTA communication from a software distribution platform. By way of brief background app developers can create custom applications by utilizing a unique identifier ID specific to a communication device. With communication devices and apps proliferating protecting user privacy with respect to profiling and or tracking a subscriber s behavior across apps and or websites is of continued importance.

The following presents a simplified summary of the specification in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects of the specification. This summary is not an extensive overview of the specification. It is intended to neither identify key or critical elements of the specification nor delineate any scope particular embodiments of the specification or any scope of the claims. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts of the specification in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

The systems and methods disclosed herein in one aspect thereof can mitigate user activity tracking and or profiling by unauthorized entities e.g. websites systems etc. by utilization of variable subscriber identifiers V SubIds as a device identifier. In one aspect the disclosed subject matter relates to a system comprising at least one memory that stores computer executable instructions and at least one processor communicatively coupled to the at least one memory that facilitates execution of the computer executable instructions. Moreover the computer executable instructions on execution issue a request for an authentication between a user equipment and a first communication network to be performed the authentication employing a static identifier associated with the user equipment. Additionally the computer executable instructions on execution receive at the user equipment via the first communication network a variable subscriber identifier corresponding to the static identifier in response to the authentication being successful provide the variable subscriber identifier to an application the application being executable at least in part by a processor on the user equipment and utilize the variable subscriber identifier as an identifier of the user equipment during a communication that involves the application and that takes place via a second communication network.

Another aspect of the disclosed subject matter relates to a method that includes requesting by a system comprising at least one processor a network gateway within a telecommunications network for a variable subscriber identifier that is to be utilized as a device identifier for a user equipment and receiving by the system the variable subscriber identifier that is generated in response to authenticating the user equipment with the telecommunications network by employing a static identifier associated with the user equipment. Further the method includes utilizing by the system the variable subscriber identifier as the device identifier of the user equipment during communication. Yet another aspect of the disclosed subject matter relates to a computer readable storage medium comprising computer executable instructions that in response to execution cause a system including at least one processor to perform operations including requesting authentication of a user equipment in connection with determining whether to allow the user equipment to connect with a first communication network including authenticating as a function of a static identifier associated with the user equipment. In addition the operations include receiving from the first communication network a variable subscriber identifier that is generated in response to the authentication being successful and utilizing the variable subscriber identifier as a device identifier of the user equipment during communication via a second communication network.

The following description and the annexed drawings set forth certain illustrative aspects of the specification. These aspects are indicative however of but a few of the various ways in which the principles of the specification may be employed. Other advantages and novel features of the specification will become apparent from the following detailed description of the specification when considered in conjunction with the drawings.

One or more embodiments are now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the various embodiments. It may be evident however that the various embodiments can be practiced without these specific details e.g. without applying to any particular networked environment or standard. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the embodiments in additional detail.

As used in this application the terms component module system interface service platform gateway or the like are generally intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution or an entity related to an operational machine with one or more specific functionalities. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a controller and the controller can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers. As another example an interface can include I O components as well as associated processor application and or API components.

Further the various embodiments can be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement one or more aspects of the disclosed subject matter. An article of manufacture can encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device or computer readable storage communications media. For example computer readable storage media can include but are not limited to magnetic storage devices e.g. hard disk floppy disk magnetic strips . . . optical disks e.g. compact disk CD digital versatile disk DVD . . . smart cards and flash memory devices e.g. card stick key drive . . . . Of course those skilled in the art will recognize many modifications can be made to this configuration without departing from the scope or spirit of the various embodiments.

In addition the words example or exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other aspects or designs. Rather use of the word exemplary is intended to present concepts in a concrete fashion. As used in this application the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . That is unless specified otherwise or clear from context X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is if X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B then X employs A or B is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form.

Moreover terms like user equipment mobile station mobile device and similar terminology refer to a wired or wireless device utilized by a subscriber or user of a wired or wireless communication service to receive or convey data control voice video sound gaming or substantially any data stream or signaling stream. The foregoing terms are utilized interchangeably in the subject specification and related drawings. Data and signaling streams can be packetized or frame based flows. Furthermore the terms user subscriber customer consumer and the like are employed interchangeably throughout the subject specification unless context warrants particular distinction s among the terms. It should be appreciated that such terms can refer to human entities or automated components supported through artificial intelligence e.g. a capacity to make inference based on complex mathematical formalisms which can provide simulated vision sound recognition and so forth.

Application app developers and other potentially non trusted entities can monitor and or track communication device users through a unique identifier ID e.g. subscriber identifier SubId and or unique device ID UDID related to a subscriber of the communication device creating privacy problems for the users. The systems and methods disclosed herein facilitate generation and utilization of a variable subscriber ID V SubId to prevent or impede profiling and or subscriber behavior tracking by unauthorized applications entities. In one aspect the V SubId masks the subscriber s identity e.g. UDID and or SubId from selected unauthorized websites and or applications that are accessed by the subscribers. Moreover the V SubId can be modified periodically such that subscriber privacy can be protected.

Aspects or features of the disclosed subject matter can be exploited in substantially any wired or wireless communication technology e.g. Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS Wi Fi Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX General Packet Radio Service GPRS Enhanced GPRS Third Generation Partnership Project 3GPP Long Term Evolution LTE Third Generation Partnership Project 2 3GPP2 Ultra Mobile Broadband UMB High Speed Packet Access HSPA Zigbee or another IEEE 802.XX technology. Additionally substantially all aspects of the disclosed subject matter can be exploited in legacy e.g. wireline telecommunication technologies.

Referring initially to there illustrated is an example system that facilitates utilization of a V SubId to protect user privacy according to one or more aspects of the disclosed subject matter. System can assign a V SubId to a subscriber s account user equipment UE in response to a successful authentication such as a subscriber identity module SIM authentication and or SIM based authentication between the UE and a communication network . System can be utilized to mask and or replace a unique ID associated with the UE during communication between the UE and one or more systems services.

By way of example UE can include most any electronic communication device such as but not limited to most any consumer electronic device for example a tablet computer a digital media player a digital photo frame a digital camera a cellular phone a personal computer a personal digital assistant PDA a smart phone a laptop a gaming system etc. Further UE can also include for example LTE based devices such as but not limited to most any home or commercial appliance that includes an LTE radio. It is noted that UE can be mobile have limited mobility and or be stationary. Typically the UE can be associated with a unique identifier ID that facilitates identification of the subscriber and or the UE . For example the subscriber of the UE is assigned a unique and constant subscriber identifier SubId e.g. by a service provider for example that is associated with the subscriber identity module SIM of the UE and or a subscriber account associated with the UE . In one example the SubId is independent of a Mobile Station International Subscriber Directory Number MSISDN and or SIM of the UE and does not change if the MSISDN is modified and or SIM is replaced. Additionally the UE can be assigned a unique device ID UDID e.g. by a manufacturer and or service provider for example a serial number that is specific to UE . In one aspect applications apps residing on UE utilize the UDID to facilitate customization and or remember user preferences. Moreover utilization of the UDID enables consistent data services and or a seamless service experience across data sessions for the UE .

In one embodiment system can include a communication network for example a cellular network that can serve the UE . As an example the UE can be coupled to the communication network via one or more radio access network s and or network elements not shown . In an aspect the UE for example on power on and or on entering a coverage area of the communication network can perform a SIM authentication with the communication network e.g. via handshaking with a home location register HLR to authorize the UE to connect to and communicate via the communication network . By way of example on authentication a network support node for example Gateway GPRS Support Node GGSN can assign an Internet protocol IP address to the UE identify a device number such as but not limited to a Mobile Station International Subscriber Directory Number MSISDN associated with the UE e.g. from the HLR and propagate the IP address and corresponding MSISDN to downstream network elements e.g. network gateways . In one aspect on authentication and connection with the communication network the UE can request e.g. periodically on demand based on an event etc. a variable SubId V SubId that can be utilized in place of a UDID of the device.

When the request from UE is received a network element e.g. network gateway can detect an IP address associated with the UE from the request and accordingly determine the corresponding MSISDN of the UE associated with the IP address. Moreover a SubId associated with the MSISDN can be identified and a V SubId can be generated based on or independent of the SubId. Typically the SubId can be a unique and unchangeable identifier associated with a subscriber of UE . In contrast the V SubId can change with time e.g. periodically on demand based on an event schedule etc. and or across data sessions such that subscriber activity monitoring and or tracking is prevented or impeded. As an example the V SubId can be randomly generated unique opaque and or can be repeated and or reused for different UEs . The V SubId can be transmitted to the UE by the communication network and can be utilized by one or more applications browsers on the UE during communication over a communication network and or communication over the communication network . As an example the communication network can include a WiFi network. In an aspect the UE can utilize the V SubId for communication with trusted entities e.g. systems and or servers that are authorized to track monitor the subscriber UE activity and or untrusted entities e.g. systems and or servers that are not authorized to track monitor the subscriber UE activity . Accordingly the V SubId due to its changing nature can prevent or impede traceability of the subscriber and or UE while allowing a network service provider to uniquely identify the subscriber associated with the V SubId if the need arises e.g. for law enforcement .

In addition if the UE communicates via the communication network a SubId enrichment policy can be utilized wherein on receiving a request e.g. communication message and or data packet from UE a network gateway not shown within the communication network can insert either the SubId or the V SubId associated with the UE in a header of the request based on the destination of the request. For example the network gateway can determine whether the destination of the request is a trusted entity ies or an untrusted entity ies for example based on a destination uniform resource locator URL within the request. In one aspect if the network gateway determines that the destination of the request is a trusted entity the header of the request can be updated with the SubId associated with UE and the updated request can be forwarded to the trusted entity . Alternatively if the network gateway determines that the destination of the request is an untrusted entity the header of the request is updated with the V SubId and forwarded to the untrusted entity . In an aspect the request directed to the trusted entity ies and or untrusted entity ies via the communication network as disclosed herein can include most any communication message and or data packet s delivered from the UE to a network server e.g. a web server an application server an email server etc. . In one example the request can include but is not limited to a request for information data from the network server. In another example the request can also include but is not limited to an instruction and or command for requesting the network server to perform a specific action e.g. load a new web page refresh a web page delete an email etc. . In yet another example the request can include a HTTP request e.g. a GET request a PUT request a DELETE request etc. . However it is noted that the subject disclosure is not limited to HTTP requests and that the UE can transmit requests utilizing most any communication protocol e.g. Secure HTTP S HTTP HTTP Secure HTTPS SPDY protocol Waka protocol a proprietary protocol etc. . Moreover if the UE utilizes a secure protocol such as but not limited to S HTTP and or HTTPS a network server not shown can perform a HTTP Redirect onto an endpoint within the server served by HTTP such that the network gateway can enrich the request with V SubId SubId.

Although communication network is described herein to include a mobility and or cellular network s it is noted that the communication network can include most any communication network e.g. wired or wireless that facilitates authentication with UE based on a unique ID credential associated with the UE and or subscriber of the UE prior to the UE connecting to and or accessing the communication network . In addition the communication network is not limited to a WiFi network and can include most any communication network e.g. wired or wireless . As an example UE can connect to and or communicate via communication network and communication network simultaneously and or at different times.

Referring now to there illustrated is an example system that facilitates generation and transmission of V SubIds over a communication network in accordance with an aspect of the subject disclosure. To mitigate the risk of undesired subscriber behavior tracking by unauthorized systems system facilitates utilization of a V SubId in place of a unique device ID associated with UE . In an aspect the V SubId is generated subsequent to an authentication e.g. SIM based authentication between the UE and a communication network e.g. a cellular network . For example the authentication can be performed when the UE is powered on or when the UE enters a coverage area associated with communication network . It is noted that the UE and communication network can include functionality as more fully described herein for example as described above with regard to system .

In one embodiment the communication network can include an anonymous customer reference services ACRS component that facilitates generation and management of V SubIds associated with UE . Moreover the V SubId can be a SIM based Identifier for example an identifier that is generated and or assigned to the SubId if a SIM or SIM based authentication performed as part of the UE s connecting to the communication network is successful. As an example the V SubId can include most any random opaque and or unique for a specific time and or session number or code that can change periodically or based on an event criterion such as but not limited to expiration of a timer termination of a data session etc. In an aspect the ACRS component can generate the V SubId by employing most any random number generator that can create the V SubId based on or independent of the SubId MSISDN UDID etc. associated with UE . For example the ACRS component can utilize a 32 digit long random number or an MD5 hash of a random number.

Further the ACRS component can store e.g. temporarily or permanently the V SubId in one or more tables retained within ID data store . As an example a one to one mapping can exist between the V SubId and the SubId associated with the UE such that a SubId query based on the V SubId can be performed e.g. by service provider partner systems law enforcement systems etc. and the SubId corresponding to the queried V SubId can be retrieved e.g. to identify a subscriber or UE . In one aspect the ACRS component can identify a triggering event e.g. when a subscriber s data session has ended and or a timer associated with the V SubId has expired and can remove and or modify the V SubId from the one or more tables . As an example transaction logs associated with creation removal and or modification of records e.g. including the V SubId within the one or more tables can be saved e.g. by the ACRS component such that a subscriber s transaction can be identified at a later time e.g. for law enforcement purposes .

In one aspect UE can include an anonymous customer reference ACR client component that can request a V SubId from the ACRS component retain the V SubId received from the ACRS component and provide the V SubId to an application s . For example the ACR client component can request for the V SubId periodically e.g. every 24 hours based on an event e.g. expiration of a timer and or on demand e.g. when requested by application s . Moreover on receiving a request for the V SubId from the ACR client component the ACRS component can perform a table lookup to determine if a previously generated valid and or non expired V SubId exists for the subscriber of UE and is stored in the one or more tables . If a valid and or non expired V SubId is assigned to the subscriber s SubId the existing V SubId can be returned to the ACR client component by the ACRS component . In contrast if valid and or non expired V SubId does not exist for the subscriber the ACRS component can generate a new V SubId and return the new V SubId to the ACR client component . Additionally or optionally the V SubId can be stored at the UE e.g. by the ACR client component for a specific time period e.g. 24 hours to avoid and or minimize communication between the ACR client component and the ACRS component . It is noted that the communication between the ACR client component and the ACRS component is secured based on most any authentication and or authorization technique s .

Application s can include most any applications that enable the UE to perform a specific task. Typically application s can be pre installed e.g. during manufacture or provisioning downloaded updated by the UE from a software distribution platform received via an over the air OTA update and the like. As an example application s can also include but are not limited to web applications and or web browsers. In one aspect during communication e.g. via communication network application s can include the V SubId in the communication data. For example application s can extract and or receive the V SubId through an application programming interface API provided by the ACR client component and can insert the V SubId in a header e.g. Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP header and or body of a communication message. In another example the V SubId can be appended to the header and or body of the communication message.

Accordingly system facilitates utilization and delivery V SubIds and not a SubId UDID to entity ies e.g. trusted and or untrusted entities during a communication between the UE and the entity ies via the communication network . Further it is noted that the ID data store can include volatile memory s or nonvolatile memory s or can include both volatile and nonvolatile memory s . Examples of suitable types of volatile and non volatile memory are described below with reference to . The memory e.g. data stores databases of the subject systems and methods is intended to include without being limited to these and any other suitable types of memory.

Referring now to there illustrated is an example system that facilitates a reverse lookup for a SubId by a trusted entity in one aspect of the subject disclosure. Typically system can be utilized for providing V SubIds associated with a subscriber e.g. in place of a static UDID to one or more websites systems platforms etc. to facilitate communication with UE . It is noted that the UE communication network communication network trusted entity ies ACRS component and ID data store ACR client component and application s can include functionality as more fully described herein for example as described above with regard to systems and . As an example trusted entity ies depicted in can include but are not limited to a trusted website system network platform server etc. which can be authorized e.g. by the user and or service provider to receive and or utilize a unique and static identifier e.g. SubId associated with the subscriber of UE for example for implementing value added services. For example the trusted entity ies can utilize the unique and or static identifier e.g. SubId to enable consistent data services and or provide a seamless service experience across data sessions for the UE e.g. one click payment taking advantage of implicit authentication already done as part of the UE s logging on and or connecting to the communication network .

In one aspect the UE can access the trusted entity ies via one or more networked elements nodes links in communication network . Additionally or alternatively a trusted entity ies e.g. a trusted website can be accessed by the applications from a link on an untrusted entity not shown . As described herein the applications on UE provide a V SubId to the trusted entity ies during communication between the UE and the trusted entity ies . As an example the V SubId is inserted within a header e.g. HTTP header and or body of a message request transmitted from the UE to the trusted entity ies . In one aspect based on an analysis of the request message the trusted entity ies can detect that the received ID e.g. within a header body of the message request is a V SubId. For example V SubIds can have a specific configuration and or syntax such as but not limited to a predefined code within the first last N digits characters wherein N can be most any positive integer which can be identified by the trusted entity ies to verify that the received ID is a V SubId.

In one embodiment the trusted entity ies can exchange the V SubId for a SubId associated with the subscriber via an application programming interface API platform . As an example the API platform can receive a query that includes the V SubId from the trusted entity ies . In one aspect the API platform can verify that the trusted entity ies is authorized to receive the SubId for example based on a URL based authorization and or a certificate based authorization. In response to successful verification the API platform can query the ACRS component for the SubId. In one aspect the ACRS component can perform a reverse lookup to retrieve the SubId corresponding to the V SubId from the ID data store . As an example the API platform can provide an appropriate interface e.g. Representational state transfer RESTful interface Simple Object Access Protocol SOAP interface etc. to facilitate secure communication between the trusted entity ies and the ACRS component . Additionally or alternatively to minimize communication between the trusted entity ies and the ACRS component the trusted entity ies can determine and or generate the SubId based on a decoding technique algorithm applied to the V SubId in response to the V SubId being generated based on applying a coding technique algorithm to the SubId. For example the V SubId can be generated based on a hash signature of the SubId and the trusted entity ies can identify the SubId by applying an inverse hash signature algorithm to the V SubId.

As an example communication network can include but is not limited to a cellular network and communication network can include but is not limited to a WiFi network. However communication network and or communication network are not limited to wireless networks and can include most any wired communication network. Further although it is depicted in as residing outside communication network and communication network the trusted entity ies can be included within communication network or communication network . Additionally or alternatively in one example aspect trusted entity ies can include but are not limited to at least a portion of application s on the UE . In this example aspect trusted entity ies can retrieve the SubId corresponding to the V SubId via secure communication with the API platform over communication network and or communication network . As an example the API platform can authenticate e.g. based on URL data security certificates etc. the trusted entity ies prior to providing the SubId to the trusted entity ies to prevent access by an untrusted entity. Furthermore it is noted that the ID data store can also reside e.g. completely or partially within the ACRS component and or be locally or remotely coupled to the ACRS component .

In one aspect the API platform provides an interface for untrusted application s to make a request for an ACR based on user authorization. As an example untrusted application s can be substantially similar to application s and can include functionality as more fully described herein for example as described above with regard to application s . Moreover untrusted application s can include most any applications e.g. third party applications that are not authorized to access a device ID and or SubId associated with the UE . In an aspect the ACRS component can generate ACRs and manage ACR lifecycles in response to receiving a request for an ACR from the untrusted application s . As an example the ACR can include most any random number or code that can be based on or independent of a SubId UDID MSISDN associated with UE . Typically the ACR can be specific to a particular untrusted application s and or can be static for a specified time period. In one aspect the untrusted application s can obtain user authorization to request the ACR via authorization component . As an example the authorization component can request and receive user approval via an input output interface not shown of UE . In one aspect the authorization component can facilitate communication between the UE and an authorization server within the communication network . For example the authorization component can provide data indicative of the user approval to the authorization server which in turn can communicate with the untrusted application s to deliver data such as but not limited to an authorization token to the untrusted application s . On obtaining the authorization token the untrusted application s can communicate with the API platform e.g. via one or more network servers to facilitate retrieval of the ACR. Moreover the API platform can verify the authorization token by communication with the authorization server and query the ACRS component for the ACR in response to the authorization token being verified. The ACRS component can generate the ACR for the untrusted application and store the ACR in a table within the ID data store . As an example the communication with the authorization server to facilitate authorization can employ but is not limited to an OAuth flow that is used to ensure subscriber s authorization for the ACR request by the untrusted application s . OAuth is a security protocol that is developed by the Internet Engineering Task Force IETF OAuth Working Group and is defined by Hammer et al. The OAuth 2.0 Authorization Protocol draft ietf oauth v2 25 Mar. 8 2012 which is incorporated by reference herein. It is noted that the subject disclosure is not limited to the OAuth protocol and most any communication protocol can be utilized for authorization.

While the ACR is active the ACRS component can provide the ACR to the API platform and or the ACR client component for servicing subsequent requests for ACR from the untrusted application s . As an example the expiration time associated with the ACR can be specified by the user during authorization e.g. via authorization component and or can be set to a code e.g. 999 that indicates that the ACR will not expire unless explicitly requested by the subscriber and or the untrusted entity ies . Further the untrusted application s and or subscriber via UE can request an ACR cancellation through API platform . As an example OAuth flow e.g. via authorization component can be employed to provide the subscriber s authorization for the ACR cancellation if requested by the untrusted application s e.g. the same authorization token that was utilized to create the ACR can be reused to cancel the ACR . Moreover on receiving the ACR cancellation request e.g. authorized by the subscriber the ACRS component can remove the ACR from the table and notify the untrusted application s and or the ACR client component of the cancelled ACR.

In one aspect the ACR can include a predefined code for example within the first last N digits characters wherein N can be most any positive integer which can be identified by a trusted entity e.g. trusted entity ies accessed via untrusted application s to verify that the received ID is an ACR. Moreover as with the V SubId the trusted entity can exchange the ACR for a SubId associated with the subscriber via the API platform . In one example the API platform can receive the ACR from the trusted entity determine that the trusted entity is authorized to receive the SubId e.g. based on a URL associated with the trusted entity and on successful verification query the ACRS component for the SubId. In one aspect the ACRS component can perform a reverse lookup to retrieve a SubId corresponding to the ACR from the ID data store .

Referring now to there illustrated is an example system that utilizes SIM based authentication to provide application specific ACRs in one aspect of the subject innovation. Typically the UE trusted entity ies ACRS component ID data store ACR client component application s API platform untrusted applications and authorization component can include functionality as more fully described herein for example as described above with regard to systems .

In this embodiment initially the ACR client component provides a V SubId e.g. in place of a UDID SubId to both trusted applications and untrusted applications . As described herein with respect to system the untrusted applications can exchange the V SubId for an ACR via API platform based on user approval e.g. via communication with the authorization server . In one aspect the trusted application s of system can also request an ACR via the API platform . Moreover the API platform can receive user authorization prior to the ACRS component generating the ACR for the trusted application s and or for the untrusted applications . On receiving user approval the ACRS component can create and or store respective ACRs for the trusted application s and untrusted applications in ID data store . In one example the ACRs can be utilized by the ACR client component for subsequent requests from the trusted application s and or untrusted applications for example until deleted and or cancelled by the subscriber and or the application e.g. the trusted application s and or untrusted applications .

Further a portion of application s that are not authorized by the user e.g. via authorization component to receive the ACR can continue to utilize the V SubId as a device subscriber identifier e.g. instead of a UDID . As an example this portion of application s can provide the V SubId to a trusted entity ies e.g. trusted websites servers systems etc. during communication with the trusted entity ies via one or more networked elements nodes links of most any communication network e.g. communication network . In one aspect based on an analysis of the communication the trusted entity ies can detect that the received ID e.g. within a header body of the message request is a V SubId and can exchange the V SubId for an ACR e.g. an identifier that does not change for a predefined time period via the API platform .

In one aspect subsequent to a SIM or SIM based authentication the ACR client component can communicate with the ACRS component via one or more elements nodes of communication network such as network gateway . As an example the network gateway can include but is not limited to a proxy server e.g. a Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP proxy server and or a multi service proxy MSP and can be utilized for header enrichment in communication messages e.g. HTTP requests transmitted from the UE to one or more network servers not shown . In one aspect the UE for example on power on or on entering a coverage area of the mobility network can perform an authentication e.g. SIM SIM based authentication with the communication network to allow the UE to access the communication network . By way of example during and or subsequent to the authentication a network support node e.g. GGSN can assign an IP address to a MSISDN SubId of the UE and propagate the IP address and corresponding MSISDN SubId to downstream network elements such as the network gateway .

The ACR client component can transmit e.g. periodically based on a schedule event on demand etc. a request for a V SubId for UE to the network gateway an endpoint URL served by the network gateway which in turn can detect the IP address from the request and accordingly determine the corresponding MSISDN SubId associated with the IP address. In one aspect the network gateway can utilize the MSISDN SubId to query the ACRS component for a V SubId. In response the network gateway can receive the V SubId generated by the ACRS component and transmit it for example in a header e.g. HTTP header or a message body back to the ACR client component . As an example the ACR client component can store the V SubId for example in a memory not shown for a predefined time period e.g. 24 hours . In one aspect the ACR client component provides the V SubId as a device identifier for UE to application and or browser . It is noted that application and or browser can be substantially similar to application s described above and can include functionality as more fully described herein for example with regard to application s .

As an example application can include the V SubId as a device identifier for UE in communication messages transmitted to application app server and or any other network element by communication through the communication network and or communication network . In one aspect the application via app server can exchange the V SubId for a static ACR based on user authorization. Moreover the application can request and receive user authorization e.g. via authorization component to make a request for an ACR. For example the application via an interface displayed on UE can query whether the user would like the application to remember preferences and or credentials associated with the user and or UE and or allow tracking and or profiling of user activity associated with the application . If the user provides a positive acknowledgment the app server can transmit a command to the API platform requesting for an ACR.

On verifying user authorization the API platform can transmit an ACRgetcreate query to the ACRS component . As an example the ACRgetcreate query can include input parameters such as V SubId e.g. provided by the application and or SubId e.g. provided by the API platform and or an identifier associated with the application e.g. provided to the API platform by the app server at on boarding . In response the ACRS component can generate the ACR for the application and transmit the ACR to the application . In addition the ACRS component can notify the network gateway of the newly generated ACR for the application which in turn can forward the ACR to the ACR client component . As an example for subsequent communication the application can utilize the ACR as an identifier for UE until the ACR is deleted e.g. based on user authorization .

In another aspect the browser can include the V SubId as a device identifier for UE in communication messages transmitted to entities for example web servers not shown via communication network and or communication network . In one example if the communication messages are directed to and or reach trusted entity ies the trusted entity ies can exchange the V SubId for the SubId associated with UE . Moreover the trusted entity ies can transmit a SubId lookup request with the V SubId as an input parameter to the API platform . In response the API platform can query the ACRS component with the V SubId which in turn can perform a reverse lookup to determine the SubId corresponding to the received V SubId. Further the ACRS component can transmit the SubId to the trusted entity ies via the API platform . In another example if the communication messages are directed to and or reach untrusted entity ies the untrusted entity ies can exchange the V SubId for an ACR based on user authorization. Moreover the untrusted entity ies can transmit a request for the ACR to the API platform which in turn can verify the user authorization and transmit an ACRgetcreate query to the ACRS component . The ACRS component can create a new ACR specific to the untrusted entity ies and deliver the ACR to the untrusted entity ies e.g. via the API platform the network gateway and or the ACR client component .

Consider a non limiting example scenario wherein a user accesses an untrusted website via browser on the user equipment for example www.shopping.com. Each time the user accesses the website the browser utilizes a new V SubId and thus the web server associated with the website www.shopping.com cannot monitor and or track user behavior. Continuing with this example if the user would like the website to remember the user e.g. remember user preferences credentials historical data and or track user behavior to provide value added services the user via UE can authorize the web server to receive a site specific ACR for example by clicking or checking a Remember me option provided on the website. In this scenario the web server can exchange via communication with the API platform the V SubId for a site specific ACR that can be utilized during subsequent communication between the UE and the website. Accordingly since the ACR remains static for a fixed time period the web server can monitor save and or analyze historical data associated with the user for example to provide the user with product recommendations user profile information store shipping billing information etc. However since the ACR is site specific profiling and or tracking of user behavior across different websites can be impeded and or prevented.

Similarly in another non limiting example the user can access an untrusted application e.g. application for example a news application on the UE . The news application is provided with a different V SubId e.g. by the ACR client component each time the user accesses the application and thus the app server cannot track and or monitor user s activity. However if the user would like the news application to remember the user e.g. remember user preferences credentials historical data and or track user behavior to provide value added services the user via UE can authorize the app server to be assigned an app specific ACR for example by clicking or checking a Remember me option on an interface provided by the news application. In this scenario the app server can exchange via communication with the API platform the V SubId for the app specific ACR that can be utilized during subsequent communication between the UE and the app server . Accordingly the app server can monitor and or track user activity e.g. news articles the user has read or commented on for example to identify user interests and prioritize news articles displayed to the user.

Further in still another non limiting example scenario the user can access an untrusted application e.g. application for example a music application on the UE that is not associated with a dedicated app server. In this example scenario the music application can receive a different V SubId from the ACR client component each time the user accesses the application. In one aspect if the user would like the music application to remember the user e.g. remember user preferences credentials historical data and or track user behavior to provide value added services the user via UE can authorize the music app to be assigned an app specific ACR e.g. by the ACRS component for example by clicking or checking a Remember me option on an interface provided by the news application. The ACRS client component can receive e.g. from the ACRS component the ACR assigned to the music app and provide the ACR to the music app for a subsequent request s from the music application for a V SubId. Alternatively the music app can receive V SubId from the ACRS client component and then dynamically query the API platform to perform a V SubId to ACR lookup. Since the music app has been authorized by the user to be assigned an ACR the API platform can return the ACR specific to the music app for example in a HTTP response to the request and or in a out of band push method over SMS to further increase security.

Consider yet another non limiting example scenario wherein the user accesses the trusted entity ies via the untrusted entity ies and or app server as depicted in via dotted lines. For example the user can access an untrusted application for example a weather application and or a weather website www.weather.com through the browser . An app server and or web server e.g. untrusted entity ies associated with the weather application and or website www.weather.com can be provided with a V SubId during communication with the UE to impede and or prevent monitoring and or tracking of user activity. In one aspect the app server and or web server can further communicate with a trusted entity ies such as an advertisement ad server within a service provider s network. In this example the ad server can communicate with the API platform to exchange the V SubId for a SubId associated with the user. As an example the ad server can utilize the SubId data to identify user preferences and or interests and select one or more ads based on the user preferences and or interests. Further the ad server can provide the one or more ads to the app server and or web server.

Referring now to illustrated is an example method that facilitates receipt and utilization of V SubIds according to an aspect of the subject disclosure. Typically method can be implemented by a UE e.g. UE to deter impede and or prevent tracking of subscriber activity by unauthorized entities. At a request e.g. communication message and or data packet can be transmitted e.g. by the ACR client component for example to a component e.g. the ACRS component within a telecommunication network. In one aspect the UE can perform an authentication e.g. SIM or SIM based to connect with the telecommunication network prior to the transmission of the request. At the V SubId can be received e.g. by the ACR client component . A V SubId can be generated based on or independent of the SubId MSISDN UDID etc. associated with the UE. As an example the V SubId can be randomly generated unique opaque and or can be repeated and or reused for different UEs . In one aspect the V SubId can be retained within a memory of UE until an expiration criterion is met. At a query is received e.g. by the ACR client component from an application for example installed on and or accessed by the UE for a device subscriber identifier. At the V SubId is provided to the application e.g. by the ACR client component . As an example the application can utilize the V SubId as an identifier for the UE or the subscriber of the UE e.g. in place of the UDID .

At it can be determined e.g. by the ACR client component whether an expiration criterion is met. By way of example the expiration criterion can include but is not limited to a predefined time period a predefined number of data sessions or a predefined number of queries received from one or more applications. In one aspect the expiration criterion can be defined by the service provider user UE manufacturer etc. If the expiration criterion has been met e.g. the predefined time period has elapsed the predefined number of data sessions have been performed and or the predefined number of queries have been received a timer has expired etc. the method returns to and a new V SubId can be requested. Alternatively if the expiration criterion has not been met at it can be determined e.g. by the ACR client component whether another query for a device subscriber identifier has been received for example from the application or another application . If another query has not been received the method returns to else if another query has been received the method returns to .

Referring now to there is illustrated a block diagram of a UE that prevents or impedes unauthorized tracking subscriber activity based on utilization of V SubIds ACRs in accordance with the subject specification. In addition the UE can be substantially similar to and include functionality associated with UE described herein. In one aspect the UE can include a processor for controlling all onboard operations and processes. A memory can interface to the processor for storage of data e.g. including V SubIds ACRs and one or more applications being executed by the processor . A communications component can interface to the processor to facilitate wired wireless communication with external systems e.g. communication network and or communication network . The communications component interfaces to a location component e.g. GPS transceiver that can facilitate location detection of the UE .

The UE can include a display for displaying content downloaded and or for displaying text information related to operating and using the device features. A serial I O interface is provided in communication with the processor to facilitate serial communication e.g. USB and or IEEE 1394 via a hardwire connection. Audio capabilities are provided with an audio I O component which can include a speaker for the output of audio signals related to for example recorded data or telephony voice data and a microphone for inputting voice signals for recording and or telephone conversations.

Further the UE can include a slot interface for accommodating a subscriber identity module SIM . As an example data from the SIM can be utilized to facilitate authentication with communication network based on which a V SubId ACR can be received by the UE . Firmware is also provided to store and provide to the processor startup and operational data. The UE can also include an image capture component such as a camera and or a video decoder for decoding encoded multimedia content. Further the UE can include a power source in the form of batteries which power source interfaces to an external power system or charging equipment via a power I O component . In addition the UE can include an ACR client component application s and authorization component which can be stored in memory and can include respective functionality as more fully described herein for example with regard to systems .

Now turning to there is depicted an example GSM GPRS IP multimedia network architecture that can employ the disclosed communication architecture. In particular the GSM GPRS IP multimedia network architecture includes a GSM core network a GPRS network and an IP multimedia network . The GSM core network includes a Mobile Station MS at least one Base Transceiver Station BTS and a Base Station Controller BSC . The MS is physical equipment or Mobile Equipment ME such as a mobile phone or a laptop computer that is used by mobile subscribers with a Subscriber identity Module SIM . The SIM includes an International Mobile Subscriber Identity IMSI and or MSISDN which is a unique identifier of a subscriber. The MS includes an embedded client that receives and processes messages received by the MS . The embedded client can be implemented in JAVA and is discussed more fully below. It is noted that MS can be substantially similar to UE and UE and can include functionality described with respect to UEs in systems and .

The embedded client communicates with an application that provides services and or information to an end user. In one aspect embedded client includes the ACR client component described in detail with respect to systems and . Further the application can include application s described in detail with respect to systems and . Additionally or alternately the MS and a device can be enabled to communicate via a short range wireless communication link such as BLUETOOTH . Further MS can also communicate with communication network e.g. a WiFi network . As one of ordinary skill in the art would recognize there can be an unlimited number of devices that use the SIM within the MS to provide services information data audio video etc. to end users.

The BTS is physical equipment such as a radio tower that enables a radio interface to communicate with the MS . Each BTS can serve more than one MS. The BSC manages radio resources including the BTS. The BSC can be connected to several BTSs. The BSC and BTS components in combination are generally referred to as a base station BSS or radio access network RAN .

The GSM core network also includes a Mobile Switching Center MSC a Gateway Mobile Switching Center GMSC a Home Location Register HLR Visitor Location Register VLR an Authentication Center AuC and an Equipment Identity Register EIR . The MSC performs a switching function for the network. The MSC also performs other functions such as registration authentication location updating handovers and call routing. The GMSC provides a gateway between the GSM network and other networks such as an Integrated Services Digital Network ISDN or Public Switched Telephone Networks PSTNs . In other words the GMSC provides interworking functionality with external networks.

The HLR is a database or component s that comprises administrative information regarding each subscriber registered in a corresponding GSM network. The HLR also includes the current location of each MS. The VLR is a database or component s that contains selected administrative information from the HLR . The VLR contains information necessary for call control and provision of subscribed services for each MS currently located in a geographical area controlled by the VLR. The HLR and the VLR together with the MSC provide the call routing and roaming capabilities of GSM. The AuC provides the parameters needed for authentication and encryption functions. Such parameters allow verification of a subscriber s identity. The EIR stores security sensitive information about the mobile equipment. In one aspect the AuC performs a SIM authentication in response to MS for example powering on and or entering a coverage area of the BTS . The SIM authentication allows the MS to communicate via the GSM GPRS IP multimedia network. By way of example on authentication a Gateway GPRS Support Node GGSN can assign an Internet protocol IP address to the MS receive a device number such as but not limited to a MSISDN associated with the MS from the HLR and propagate the IP address and corresponding MSISDN to downstream network elements such as the network gateway . The network gateway can include functionality as more fully described herein for example as described above with regard to systems .

A Short Message Service Center SMSC allows one to one Short Message Service SMS messages to be sent to from the MS . A Push Proxy Gateway PPG is used to push e.g. send without a synchronous request content to the MS . The PPG acts as a proxy between wired and wireless networks to facilitate pushing of data to the MS . A Short Message Peer to Peer SMPP protocol router is provided to convert SMS based SMPP messages to cell broadcast messages. SMPP is a protocol for exchanging SMS messages between SMS peer entities such as short message service centers. It is often used to allow third parties e.g. content suppliers such as news organizations to submit bulk messages.

To gain access to GSM services such as speech data and short message service SMS the MS first registers with the network to indicate its current location by performing a location update and IMSI attach procedure. The MS sends a location update including its current location information to the MSC VLR via the BTS and the BSC . The location information is then sent to the MS s HLR. The HLR is updated with the location information received from the MSC VLR. The location update also is performed when the MS moves to a new location area. Typically the location update is periodically performed to update the database as location updating events occur.

The GPRS network is logically implemented on the GSM core network architecture by introducing two packet switching network nodes a serving GPRS support node SGSN a cell broadcast and a Gateway GPRS support node GGSN . The SGSN is at the same hierarchical level as the MSC in the GSM network. The SGSN controls the connection between the GPRS network and the MS . The SGSN also keeps track of individual MS s locations security functions and access controls.

A Cell Broadcast Center CBC communicates cell broadcast messages that are typically delivered to multiple users in a specified area. Cell Broadcast is one to many geographically focused service. It enables messages to be communicated to multiple mobile phone customers who are located within a given part of its network coverage area at the time the message is broadcast.

The GGSN provides a gateway between the GPRS network and a public packet network PDN or other IP networks . That is the GGSN provides interworking functionality with external networks and sets up a logical link to the MS through the SGSN . In one aspect the GGSN is coupled to the other IP networks via the network gateway . Moreover network gateway can be coupled to the ACRS component which can include functionality as more fully described herein for example as described above with regard to systems . Although it is depicted in as residing outside the GGSN the network gateway and or ACRS component can reside within e.g. completely or partially the GGSN . When packet switched data leaves the GPRS network it is transferred to an external TCP IP network such as an X.25 network or the Internet. In order to access GPRS services the MS first attaches itself to the GPRS network by performing an attach procedure. The MS then activates a packet data protocol PDP context thus activating a packet communication session between the MS the SGSN and the GGSN . In a GSM GPRS network GPRS services and GSM services can be used in parallel. A GPRS network can be designed to operate in three network operation modes NOM NOM and NOM . A network operation mode of a GPRS network is indicated by a parameter in system information messages transmitted within a cell. The system information messages dictates a MS where to listen for paging messages and how signal towards the network. The network operation mode represents the capabilities of the GPRS network.

The IP multimedia network was introduced with 3GPP Release 5 and includes an IP multimedia subsystem IMS to provide rich multimedia services to end users. A representative set of the network entities within the IMS are a call session control function CSCF a media gateway control function MGCF a media gateway MGW and a master subscriber database called a home subscriber server HSS . The HSS can be common to the GSM network the GPRS network as well as the IP multimedia network .

The IP multimedia system is built around the call session control function of which there are three types an interrogating CSCF I CSCF a proxy CSCF P CSCF and a serving CSCF S CSCF . The P CSCF is the MS s first point of contact with the IMS . The P CSCF forwards session initiation protocol SIP messages received from the MS to an SIP server in a home network and vice versa of the MS. The P CSCF can also modify an outgoing request according to a set of rules defined by the network operator for example address analysis and potential modification .

The I CSCF forms an entrance to a home network and hides the inner topology of the home network from other networks and provides flexibility for selecting an S CSCF. The I CSCF can contact a subscriber location function SLF to determine which HSS to use for the particular subscriber if multiple HSSs are present. The S CSCF performs the session control services for the MS . This includes routing originating sessions to external networks and routing terminating sessions to visited networks. The S CSCF also decides whether an application server AS is required to receive information on an incoming SIP session request to ensure appropriate service handling. This decision is based on information received from the HSS or other sources such as an application server . The AS also communicates to a location server e.g. a Gateway Mobile Location Center GMLC that provides a position e.g. latitude longitude coordinates of the MS . The MME provides authentication of a user by interacting with the HSS in LTE networks.

The HSS contains a subscriber profile and keeps track of which core network node is currently handling the subscriber. It also supports subscriber authentication and authorization functions AAA . In networks with more than one HSS a subscriber location function provides information on the HSS that contains the profile of a given subscriber.

The MGCF provides interworking functionality between SIP session control signaling from the IMS and ISUP BICC call control signaling from the external GSTN networks not shown . It also controls the media gateway MGW that provides user plane interworking functionality e.g. converting between AMR and PCM coded voice . The MGW also communicates with a PSTN network for TDM trunks. In addition the MGCF communicates with the PSTN network for SS7 links. According to an embodiment systems disclosed herein can be implemented within and or communicatively coupled to the GSM network the GPRS network the IP multimedia network and or the IP networks .

The evolved RAN for LTE consists of an eNodeB eNB that can facilitate connection of MS to an evolved packet core EPC network. The connection of the MS to the evolved packet core EPC network is subsequent to an authentication for example a SIM based authentication between the MS and the evolved packet core EPC network. As an example the eNB can host a PHYsical PHY Medium Access Control MAC Radio Link Control RLC and Packet Data Control Protocol PDCP layers that include the functionality of user plane header compression and encryption. In addition the eNB can implement at least in part Radio Resource Control RRC functionality e.g. radio resource management admission control scheduling cell information broadcast etc. . The eNB can be coupled to a serving gateway SGW that facilitates routing of user data packets and serves as a local mobility anchor for data bearers when the MS moves between eNBs. In addition the SGW can act as an anchor for mobility between LTE and other 3GPP technologies GPRS UMTS etc. . When MS is in an idle state the SGW terminates a downlink DL data path and triggers paging when DL data arrives for the MS . Further the SGW can perform various administrative functions in the visited network such as collecting information for charging and lawful interception.

In one aspect the SGW can be coupled to a Packet Data Network Gateway PDN GW that provides connectivity between the MS and external packet data networks such as IP service s network s . Moreover the PDN GW is a point of exit and entry of traffic for the MS . It is noted that the MS can have simultaneous connectivity with more than one PDN GW not shown for accessing multiple PDNs.

The PDN GW performs IP address allocation for the MS as well as QoS enforcement and implements flow based charging according to rules from a Policy Control and Charging Rules Function PCRF . The PCRF can facilitate policy control decision making and control flow based charging functionalities in a Policy Control Enforcement Function PCEF which resides in the PDN GW . The PCRF can store data e.g. QoS class identifier and or bit rates that facilitates QoS authorization of data flows within the PCEF.

In one aspect the PDN GW can facilitate filtering of downlink user IP packets into the different QoS based bearers and perform policy enforcement packet filtering for each user charging support lawful interception and packet screening. Further the PDN GW acts as the anchor for mobility between 3GPP and non 3GPP technologies such as WiMAX and 3GPP2 CDMA 1 and EvDO .

In one aspect the PDN GW is coupled to the IP service s network s via the network gateway . The network gateway can be coupled to the ACRS component which can include functionality as more fully described herein for example as described above with regard to systems . Although it is depicted in as residing outside the PDN GW the network gateway and or ACRS component can reside within e.g. completely or partially the PDN GW . Although the GSM GPRS IP multimedia network architecture and LTE network architecture is described and illustrated herein it is noted that most any communication network architecture can be utilized to implement the disclosed embodiments.

Referring now to there is illustrated a block diagram of a computer operable to execute the disclosed communication architecture. In order to provide additional context for various aspects of the disclosed subject matter and the following discussion are intended to provide a brief general description of a suitable computing environment in which the various aspects of the specification can be implemented. While the specification has been described above in the general context of computer executable instructions that can run on one or more computers those skilled in the art will recognize that the specification also can be implemented in combination with other program modules and or as a combination of hardware and software.

Generally program modules include routines programs components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Moreover those skilled in the art will appreciate that the inventive methods can be practiced with other computer system configurations including single processor or multiprocessor computer systems minicomputers mainframe computers as well as personal computers hand held computing devices microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics and the like each of which can be operatively coupled to one or more associated devices.

The illustrated aspects of the specification can also be practiced in distributed computing environments where certain tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules can be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.

Computing devices typically include a variety of media which can include computer readable storage media and or communications media which two terms are used herein differently from one another as follows. Computer readable storage media can be any available storage media that can be accessed by the computer and includes both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and non removable media. By way of example and not limitation computer readable storage media can be implemented in connection with any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions program modules structured data or unstructured data. Computer readable storage media can include but are not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disk DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or other tangible and or non transitory media which can be used to store desired information. Computer readable storage media can be accessed by one or more local or remote computing devices e.g. via access requests queries or other data retrieval protocols for a variety of operations with respect to the information stored by the medium.

Communications media typically embody computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other structured or unstructured data in a data signal such as a modulated data signal e.g. a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery or transport media. The term modulated data signal or signals refers to a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in one or more signals. By way of example and not limitation communication media include wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media.

With reference again to the example environment for implementing various aspects of the specification includes a computer the computer including a processing unit a system memory and a system bus . As an example the gateway s entity ies component s server s and platform s e.g. network gateway trusted entity ies untrusted entity ies ACRS component ACR client component API platform UE authentication server app server etc. disclosed herein with respect to system can each include at least a portion of the computer . In another example a combination of the gateway s entity ies component s server s and or platform s can each include one or more computers such as or substantially similar to computer . Further each of the network element s stand alone and or in combination with one or more other network elements disclosed herein with respect to systems and can include at least a portion of computer or can include one or more computers such as or substantially similar to computer . The system bus couples system components including but not limited to the system memory to the processing unit . The processing unit can be any of various commercially available processors. Dual microprocessors and other multi processor architectures can also be employed as the processing unit .

The system bus can be any of several types of bus structure that can further interconnect to a memory bus with or without a memory controller a peripheral bus and a local bus using any of a variety of commercially available bus architectures. The system memory includes read only memory ROM and random access memory RAM . A basic input output system BIOS is stored in a non volatile memory such as ROM EPROM EEPROM which BIOS contains the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within the computer such as during startup. The RAM can also include a high speed RAM such as static RAM for caching data.

The computer further includes an internal hard disk drive HDD which internal hard disk drive can also be configured for external use in a suitable chassis not shown a magnetic floppy disk drive FDD e.g. to read from or write to a removable diskette and an optical disk drive e.g. reading a CD ROM disk or to read from or write to other high capacity optical media such as the DVD . The hard disk drive magnetic disk drive and optical disk drive can be connected to the system bus by a hard disk drive interface a magnetic disk drive interface and an optical drive interface respectively. The interface for external drive implementations includes at least one or both of Universal Serial Bus USB and IEEE 1394 interface technologies. Other external drive connection technologies are within contemplation of the subject disclosure.

The drives and their associated computer readable storage media provide nonvolatile storage of data data structures computer executable instructions and so forth. For the computer the drives and storage media accommodate the storage of any data in a suitable digital format. Although the description of computer readable storage media above refers to a HDD a removable magnetic diskette and a removable optical media such as a CD or DVD it should be appreciated by those skilled in the art that other types of storage media which are readable by a computer such as zip drives magnetic cassettes flash memory cards cartridges and the like can also be used in the example operating environment and further that any such storage media can contain computer executable instructions for performing the methods of the specification.

A number of program modules can be stored in the drives and RAM including an operating system one or more application programs other program modules and program data . All or portions of the operating system applications modules and or data can also be cached in the RAM . It is appreciated that the specification can be implemented with various commercially available operating systems or combinations of operating systems.

A user can enter commands and information into the computer through one or more wired wireless input devices e.g. a keyboard and or a pointing device such as a mouse or a touchscreen or touchpad not illustrated but which may be integrated into UE in some embodiments . These and other input devices are often connected to the processing unit through an input device interface that is coupled to the system bus but can be connected by other interfaces such as a parallel port an IEEE 1394 serial port a game port a USB port an IR interface etc. A monitor or other type of display device is also connected to the system bus via an interface such as a video adapter .

The computer can operate in a networked environment using logical connections via wired and or wireless communications to one or more remote computers such as a remote computer s . The remote computer s can be a workstation a server computer a router a personal computer portable computer microprocessor based entertainment appliance a peer device or other common network node and typically includes many or all of the elements described relative to the computer although for purposes of brevity only a memory storage device is illustrated. The logical connections depicted include wired wireless connectivity to a local area network LAN and or larger networks e.g. a wide area network WAN . Such LAN and WAN networking environments are commonplace in offices and companies and facilitate enterprise wide computer networks such as intranets all of which can connect to a global communications network e.g. the Internet.

When used in a LAN networking environment the computer is connected to the local network through a wired and or wireless communication network interface or adapter . The adapter can facilitate wired or wireless communication to the LAN which can also include a wireless access point disposed thereon for communicating with the wireless adapter .

When used in a WAN networking environment the computer can include a modem or is connected to a communications server on the WAN or has other means for establishing communications over the WAN such as by way of the Internet. The modem which can be internal or external and a wired or wireless device is connected to the system bus via the serial port interface . In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to the computer or portions thereof can be stored in the remote memory storage device . It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are example and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers can be used.

The computer is operable to communicate with any wireless devices or entities operatively disposed in wireless communication e.g. desktop and or portable computer server communications satellite etc. This includes at least Wi Fi and Bluetooth wireless technologies. Thus the communication can be a predefined structure as with a conventional network or simply an ad hoc communication between at least two devices.

Wi Fi or Wireless Fidelity allows connection to the Internet from a couch at home a bed in a hotel room or a conference room at work without wires. Wi Fi is a wireless technology similar to that used in a cell phone that enables such devices e.g. computers to send and receive data indoors and out anywhere within the range of a base station. Wi Fi networks use radio technologies called IEEE 802.11 a b g etc. to provide secure reliable fast wireless connectivity. A Wi Fi network can be used to connect computers to each other to the Internet and to wired networks which use IEEE 802.3 or Ethernet . Wi Fi networks operate in the unlicensed 2.4 and 5 GHz radio bands at an 11 Mbps 802.11a or 54 Mbps 802.11b data rate for example or with products that contain both bands dual band so the networks can provide real world performance similar to the basic 10BaseT wired Ethernet networks used in many offices.

As it employed in the subject specification the term processor can refer to substantially any computing processing unit or device comprising but not limited to comprising single core processors single processors with software multithread execution capability multi core processors multi core processors with software multithread execution capability multi core processors with hardware multithread technology parallel platforms and parallel platforms with distributed shared memory. Additionally a processor can refer to an integrated circuit an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a digital signal processor DSP a field programmable gate array FPGA a programmable logic controller PLC a complex programmable logic device CPLD a discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. Processors can exploit nano scale architectures such as but not limited to molecular and quantum dot based transistors switches and gates in order to optimize space usage or enhance performance of user equipment. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing processing units.

In the subject specification terms such as data store data storage database cache and substantially any other information storage component relevant to operation and functionality of a component refer to memory components or entities embodied in a memory or components comprising the memory. It will be appreciated that the memory components or computer readable storage media described herein can be either volatile memory or nonvolatile memory or can include both volatile and nonvolatile memory. By way of illustration and not limitation nonvolatile memory can include read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM electrically programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable ROM EEPROM or flash memory. Volatile memory can include random access memory RAM which acts as external cache memory. By way of illustration and not limitation RAM is available in many forms such as synchronous RAM SRAM dynamic RAM DRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM double data rate SDRAM DDR SDRAM enhanced SDRAM ESDRAM Synchlink DRAM SLDRAM and direct Rambus RAM DRRAM . Additionally the disclosed memory components of systems or methods herein are intended to comprise without being limited to comprising these and any other suitable types of memory.

What has been described above includes examples of the present specification. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable combination of components or methods for purposes of describing the present specification but one of ordinary skill in the art may recognize that many further combinations and permutations of the present specification are possible. Accordingly the present specification is intended to embrace all such alterations modifications and variations that fall within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. Furthermore to the extent that the term includes is used in either the detailed description or the claims such term is intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as comprising is interpreted when employed as a transitional word in a claim.

