---

title: Social processing member offering fixed and intelligent services
abstract: A social networking system offers a variety of fixed and intelligent services and social device resources participating as members in a social network (SNET) group. Such members may include, for example, social billing and payment services, digital assistants and artificial intelligence functions, robotic control and training services, media content storage and playback services, data backup services, services that support distributed processes such as distributed research projects, networking elements such as network attached storage (NAS), firewalls, proxies, etc. In various embodiments, such services and resources may become available upon being selectively docked or otherwise associated (e.g., through docking of a supporting device) with a SNET group by a human member or third party via a docked user device. Selection of available services may be supported through a visual menu provided by a member device or support service.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09055121&OS=09055121&RS=09055121
owner: Broadcom Corporation
number: 09055121
owner_city: Irvine
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120531
---
The present U.S. Utility Patent Application claims priority pursuant to 35 U.S.C. 119 e to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 545 147 entitled Social Network Device Memberships and Resource Allocation filed Oct. 8 2011 which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety and made part of the present U.S. Utility Patent Application for all purposes.

The present U.S. Utility Patent Application claims priority pursuant to 35 U.S.C. 120 as a continuation in part of the following U.S. Utility Applications all of which are hereby incorporated herein by reference in their entirety and made part of the present U.S. Utility Patent Application for all purposes 

1. U.S. Utility application Ser. No. 13 342 301 entitled Social Network Device Memberships and Applications filed Jan. 3 2012 which claims priority pursuant to 35 U.S.C. 119 e to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 545 147 entitled Social Network Device Memberships and Resource Allocation filed Oct. 8 2011.

2. U.S. Utility application Ser. No. 13 408 986 entitled Social Device Resource Management filed Feb. 29 2012 which claims priority pursuant to 35 U.S.C. 119 e to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 545 147 entitled Social Network Device Memberships and Resource Allocation filed Oct. 8 2011.

3. U.S. Utility application Ser. No. 13 436 557 entitled Social Networking Grouping Hierarchy filed Mar. 30 2012 which in turn is a continuation in part of U.S. Utility application Ser. No. 13 342 301 entitled Social Network Device Memberships and Applications filed Jan. 3 2012 U.S. Utility application Ser. No. 13 408 986 entitled Social Device Resource Management filed Feb. 29 2012 and U.S. Utility application Ser. No. 13 351 822 entitled Ad Hoc Social Networking filed Jan. 17 2012 all of which in turn claim priority pursuant to 35 U.S.C. 119 e to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 545 147 entitled Social Network Device Memberships and Resource Allocation filed Oct. 8 2011.

The invention relates generally to social networking and more particularly it relates to social network device memberships resource allocation and service offerings.

The popularity and growth of social network sites and services has increased dramatically over the last few years. Present social network sites include Facebook Google Twitter MySpace YouTube LinkedIn Flicker MYUBO Bebo and the like. Such social networking SNET sites are typically web based and organized around user profiles and or collections of content accessible by members of the network. Membership in such social networks is comprised of individuals or groupings of individuals who are generally represented by profile pages and permitted to interact as determined by the social networking service.

In many popular social networks especially profile focused social networks activity centers on web pages or social spaces that enable members to view profiles communicate and share activities interests opinions status updates audio video content etc. across networks of contacts. Social networking services might also allow members to track certain activities of other members of the social network collaborate locate and connect with existing friends former acquaintances and colleagues and establish new connections with other members.

Individual members typically connect to social networking services through existing web based platforms via a computing device tablet or smartphone. Members often share a common bond social status or geographic or cultural connection with their respective contacts. Smartphone and games based mobile social networking services are examples of rapidly developing areas.

In so called cloud computing computing tasks are performed on remote computers servers which are typically accessed via Internet connections. One benefit of cloud computing is that may reduce the relative processing and storage capabilities required by user devices e.g. a cloud computer may load a webpage accessed by a tablet device and communicate only required information back to the tablet . Accordingly recent years have witnessed an ever growing amount of content and application software being migrated from local or on site storage to cloud based data storage and management. Such software functionality services and content are typically available on demand via virtualized network infrastructures.

As used herein the terms social network and SNET comprise a grouping or social structure of devices and or individuals as well as connections links and interdependencies between such devices and or individuals. Members or actors including devices within or affiliated with a SNET may be referred to herein as nodes social devices SNET members SNET devices user devices and or modules . In addition the terms SNET circle SNET sub circle SNET group and SNET sub group generally denote a social network that comprises social devices and as contextually appropriate human SNET members and personal area networks PANs .

Beyond traditional social networking features and services a SNET group and associated fixed and intelligent services social devices resources and other capabilities according to various embodiments of the disclosure include numerous novel features and attributes as described more fully below and with general reference to . Briefly in one embodiment of the disclosure a variety of conventional services and resources provided outside of SNET contexts may be included in addition to human and device members in a SNET group or sub group including computing and networking devices application software databases etc. Stated another way such a SNET group may have member participants beyond humans. Such members might comprise for example networking elements such as network attached storage NAS firewalls proxies VPNs etc. media content storage or playback and billing services other database and storage backup services applications human like services such as an artificial intelligence digital assistant DRM and security elements support functions specific to the group and or the underlying membership etc. Such members may have a fixed function or operate with an artificial intelligence persona or other intelligence capabilities. Further an artificial persona or avatar that behaves as a friend or facilitates SNET group usage or training might be selected to participate as a member. Such concepts may be extended to add an individual s personification overlay video appearance voice etc. on top of such persona avatar which may operate when the individual is offline.

For example a SNET may offer a series of functional members that become available upon docking of a particular supporting device. Such functional members may be visible and available across a user s SNET account to a particular SNET group circle to the functional member itself to all SNET membership etc. Note that many such elements and functionality e.g. temporal alarms security and contact managers DMZ type applications etc. are described or suggested herein. By way of example an application docked as a SNET group member may be configured automatically as a DMZ member with underlying functionality. In such an embodiment involving gaming activities joinder of an SNET group by a gaming application and game member might result in service offerings to other SNET group members including without limitation configuration services based on underlying device limitations capabilities. Similarly docking of members may also trigger malware and virus scanning services within the SNET group spanning through all or a subset of the implicated social devices services and software.

In another embodiment of the disclosure payment authentication services are performed on a per device using a SIM card bar code or the like or per SNET basis. For example reading a bar code may trigger connection with a social network providing various options including payment options and or enable another SNET member e.g. a family member to assume responsibility for payment of fines fees gaming credits etc. In this instance an electronic invoice can be forwarded to the SNET and or responsible SNET member and payment may be conducted through low power Bluetooth or NFC type functionality associated with an SNET electronic wallet bank account credit card etc. Payment may be subject to individual or circle by circle purchasing limits and require one or more security authentication steps. For example a social member set top box may incorporate smart credit debit card information and an associated billing interface element or application application interface to assist in performing billing transactions including transactions involving confirmation via a separate communication pathway and or social member a smart phone for example . Purchasing payments crediting receipts etc. may be conducted and communicated within a particular circle s via a circle SNET member application or application interface. Security and security proxy functions may also be integrated into a social billing process according to the disclosure.

In another embodiment according to the disclosure SNET group circle members comprise social artificial intelligence functionality. Such functionality may take the form for example of a dockable social robot. Potential applications include traditional factory robot monitoring program exchange and human to robot and robot to robot interaction via a SNET group e.g. load sharing support activity data exchange information experience and training . Such an embodiment may be viewed as inverting the social network concept to computers machines and applying friend concepts etc. for load balancing and collaboration in autonomous operating environments.

According to another embodiment of the disclosure members within a SNET circle may donate or expose personal device computational capacity or other resources such as storage to support a SNET managed process such as distributed or peer to peer computing activities for example the search for extraterrestrial intelligence SETI virus decoding etc. . Further a SNET managed process may utilize accessible member resources for distributed real time backup of each member s distributed data. Such distributed processes and associated data can be limited to one or more SNET groups such as a household social group with auto docking and may be utilized for a wide variety of other purposes such as control of a group of social robots etc. Similarly content or applications software e.g. imaging services residing on a docked social device may be accessed by another social device.

Referring more specifically to a social network circle group hereinafter SNET circle or SNET group comprising fixed and intelligent social services is shown. Briefly membership in the SNET group may comprise fixed and intelligent services docked social devices resources embodiments of which are described in conjunction with and human SNET group members as well as proxies thereof. Further SNET group nodes may include device services and software e.g. applications of various types participating as members. By way of example SNET group members might include artificial intelligence agents social robots SNET security device s appliances vehicles and service providers external social device resources common or authorized members functionality of other SNET groups etc. Further access to specific content and resources of a SNET group may be shared with members of additional SNET s including remote or web based applications. Such access can be conditioned on acceptable profiling and association data. Similarly social devices or individuals may be granted temporary or ad hoc memberships with or without restricted access.

In the illustrated embodiment formation maintenance and operation of SNET group is performed by standalone or distributed SNET processing circuitry and software . It is noted that the SNET processing circuitry may comprise hardware hardware and software hardware supported software applications or various combinations thereof and be configurable to support various functionalities disclosed herein. Further the SNET processing circuitry may be included in a standalone server server farm cloud based resources and or the various types of devices described below and incorporate authentication and security functionality . In addition specialized middleware may also be utilized by SNETs according to the invention including standardized middleware and or standardized communication protocols having an associated certification process. Interactions and interdependencies within the SNET group may involve one or more of an adaptive resource management allocation and arbitration module a social device association control module and a SNET group member profiling module .

As described more fully below distribution of internal and external SNET data content can be accomplished in a variety of ways in accordance with various embodiments of the disclosure. For example data distribution may involve an adaptive or parallel network communication routing infrastructure involving a wide variety of communication protocols and wired and or wireless communications channels as well as one or more social devices resources . SNET data content may comprise for example various user driven advertising channels pictures videos audio communications links online text etc. Access to such content as well as communications with and remote access to social devices of the SNET group may occur over an Internet backbone cellular communication system WAN LAN etc.

A member of a SNET in accordance with various embodiments of the disclosure such as those disclosed herein may establish permissions and or privacy settings that control and restrict who or what may access the member s profile s information offer services communication resources connections and groups as well as define desired degrees of access. Permissions may enable the user to maintain certain resources or information as private or available on a permissive basis only. For example accessibility to available communication resources or social content may be limited to users devices in a particular SNET or SNET group. Alternatively such resources may be publicly available. Likewise a SNET member may selectively decide to permit others to access personal information such as name gender contact information email address etc.

In the various embodiments membership in a SNET group may be extended to encompass public and private social devices and equipment. For example in a SNET group that includes human members each human member may have a respective personal SNET sub group of associated or docked social devices capable of independent or aggregated participation in the SNET group. The SNET sub group may be locally or remotely accessible by a human member and or other SNET group sub group members through various means such as clicking on an icon or tag associated with the human member personal sub group. A SNET group may be persistent or of limited duration and include ad hoc and or static associations.

Exemplary social devices may be broadly categorized as either i social devices that include a user or SNET group interface sufficient to provide meaningful input to SNET interaction and ii social devices that support minimal or no user input relevant to SNET interaction. More particularly and without limitation the first category may include computers tablet devices IPTVs IPTV set top boxes smart phones servers laptops cloudbooks network attached storage devices gaming consoles media players sources communication nodes access points routers switches gateways etc. user interface devices power line communication PLC devices etc. Such social devices may receive user input for SNET setup and management. The second category may include again without limitation printers projectors cameras and camcorders scanners speakers headsets smoke detectors alarm systems video cameras mice etc. In general dockable social devices include any electronic device that could be operably coupled to or docked in a SNET group sub group via wired or wireless pathways to participate as a SNET member.

As will be appreciated by docking social devices members of a SNET circle may gain full or partial remote control and interaction such devices via an authorized member SNET account. For example family members authorized to participate in a family SNET circle may remotely access docked social devices via one or more associated SNET accounts. Exemplary methods for docking and accessing social devices are described more fully below in conjunction with numerous of the Figures.

In the illustrated embodiment social system members or nodes include one or more local or remote servers and server clusters that provide a support infrastructure supporting system for social group functionality and member operations routing data storage services docakable services etc. . Communications within the social group and with non members may occur via dedicated or multi function communication path devices.

Social system members further include devices configured to operate as nodes within the social group . Social functionality in such devices and other social system members can be implemented through various means. For example a device may have integral hardware firmware software to support social group access and member operations. Alternatively a general purpose device may include social code that enables participation in the social group . In a further embodiment a device designed to include social functionality may participate in the social group through a combination of non social code and a social shim layer or driver wrapper. In yet another embodiment a member device having a social design may utilize additional social code including code specific to a social group .

Participation in the social group is supported through functionality that includes automated and member triggered membership invitations and processing membership management . More particularly membership management may function to invite prospective members to participate in the social group through automatic automated and member triggered processes. For example membership management might be configured by a human user to establish a social group by automatically inviting accepting social system members having certain characteristics such as devices owned or controlled by the user or acquaintances of the user .

Processing of accepted invitations and unsolicited requests to join the social group may be conditioned upon input or authorization from an existing social system member s or human user s e.g. through a user interface . Similarly membership management may be configured to generate automated suggestions regarding which prospective members receive an invitation. Various other approaches such as those described herein can be used to establish membership in accordance with the disclosure.

Access to and visibility of resources of a social group including services and data may be managed through general and member class specific access configurations . For example if membership in the social group includes family members and associated devices a uniform access configuration or separate device and human configurations could be applied across the class in an automatic or automated manner. In other embodiments access control and constraints are imposed on a per member basis.

The social group may offer a wide variety of fixed and intelligent member services including both internal and external services accessible by social system members . By way of example the social group may offer payment processing services storage and backup services robotic control functions digital assistants and other services certain of which may themselves participate as members between full members and or authorized guest members and visitors. In certain embodiments member services may themselves participate or be selectable to participate as members of the social group . As with other resources of the social group access control and constraints on member services may be applied to individual members or classes of members.

The SNET infrastructure of the illustrated embodiment includes a number of functions and resources to support formation and maintenance of a SNET having social device and or service members. In particular member report management and processing receives information from SNET group member reporting functions in associated social devices . Such information may include for example status data regarding the location address and activities of a social device and or device user.

In addition the social device may provide device information indicating for example device functions and social capabilities device model number s device configurations software versions attached peripherals and downstream social devices device resources and usage etc. Device information relating to available resources services and current resource usage may be utilized by the SNET infrastructure for purposes of SNET resource management including dynamic resource allocation and arbitration.

In various embodiments the social device may have an obligation to gather store and or report device status information at different times. For example reporting may be required upon affiliation or docking with a SNET on a periodic basis and or during operational engagements with other intra and inter SNET resources and devices including upstream and downstream devices .

Referring again to the SNET infrastructure additional functionality and resources include without limitation SNET member information capture and storage management a SNET application programming interface API that allows SNET associated software components to communicate with each other security and access control management for maintaining the integrity of the SNET and affiliated data resources and Web server services . The social network infrastructure further comprises other group application services corresponding to the foregoing as well as additional services such as those described herein. In one exemplary embodiment the SNET infrastructure might determine e.g. by means of device information the category and nature of a social device wishing to participate in a SNET. As necessary functionality in the SNET infrastructure could then direct or trigger installation of appropriate application software and underlying drivers in the social device . Such operations might be performed with minimal involvement from inherent functions of the social device .

In the illustrated embodiment the social device comprises a number of additional functions and resources to support participation in a social network. More particularly SNET SNET and or member control functions may include slave functions master functions and various combinations thereof. Slave functions include for example device re configuration directed resource allocation managed resource arbitration bridging operations etc. Master functions enable the social device to establish manage and terminate various interactions between nodes or groups of nodes in a social network including interactions involving the social device itself.

The social device further includes a social API and browser based interaction capabilities to support for example relevant social applications and services which might comprise slave and master functions and . Security and access control layers permit the social device to interface with or establish secure SNET groups circles and control access to internal and external SNET resources.

It is noted that numerous of the functional building blocks of the embodiment of the disclosure illustrated by may be incorporated in whole or part in one or more application specific integrated circuit devices. For example an integrated circuit device may include a member reporting module to provide member reporting functionality including communication of device status and device characteristics device control capabilities master slave functions security and access control modules etc. Such an integrated circuit device may also include onboard processing capabilities and or interface with a processor device. Alternatively several of the functions described above may be incorporated in whole or part into an operating system and or software loaded above an operating system kernel.

SNET group members clients users and the like may include for example human members of a SNET or some other network authorized nonmembers of a SNET guests of a SNET device members of a SNET or some other network certain fixed and intelligent services resources some combination thereof etc. In various embodiments one or more services and capabilities associated with SNET group may be accessed directly or through interaction with the SNET group e.g. via supporting system and or a tiered SNET grouping hierarchy such as described below in conjunction with . In addition SNET group may offer a series of functional members and or resources that become available upon docking of a particular supporting device. Such functional members may be visible and available across a user s SNET account to a particular SNET group circle to the functional member itself to all SNET membership etc.

In various of the illustrated embodiments for example a variety of services and resources are enabled in a SNET group including fixed and intelligent services computing and networking elements and social billing and payment elements . The SNET processing circuitry and software of the illustrated embodiments include one or more hardware software functions for managing and facilitating such services and resources. These functions may include for example fixed and intelligent service offering control capabilities which may include configurable resource offering views including visual offerings distributed process management functions DRM and billing management capabilities resource management and access control capabilities membership management docking and support services and tracking and reporting functions .

A SNET group according to the illustrated embodiments may support and offer a wide variety of fixed and intelligent services . By way of example and without limitation application software may be offered including standalone applications and associated device drivers as necessary or dedicated applications that might support other functions and resources of a SNET group . Other service offerings may include storage and backup services media related services content storage and playback transcoding functions billing and DRM etc. and communications services both intra and inter SNET .

In further embodiments according to the disclosure SNET group membership and or service offerings includes social artificial intelligence AI functionality . Such AI functionality may take the form for example of a dockable social robot. Potential robotic applications which may utilize other SNET group resources including robotic controls and robotic interfaces include factory robot monitoring program exchange and human to robot and robot to robot interaction via a SNET group e.g. load sharing support activity data exchange information experience and training . Further such embodiments are described more fully below in conjunction .

AI functionality in certain embodiments may include human like services such as an artificial intelligence digital assistant that is docked as a member of SNET group and supports functions specific to the group and or the underlying membership. Such AI members may have a fixed function or operate with an AI persona or other intelligence capabilities. Further an artificial persona or avatar that behaves as a friend or facilitates SNET group usage or training might be selected to participate as a member. Such concepts may be extended to add an individual s personification overlay video appearance voice etc. on top of such persona avatar and in certain embodiments may operate when the affiliated individual is offline. SNET group members may interact with one another through such avatars such as character interactions in a multi user virtual gaming environment.

According to another embodiment of the disclosure members or affiliates of a SNET group may donate or expose device computational capacity or other resources such as storage to support SNET managed or distributed processes and distributed processing research such as distributed or peer to peer computing activities for example the search for extraterrestrial intelligence SETI virus decoding etc. . In one embodiment a SNET managed process may utilize accessible member resources for storage and file transfer including distributed or RAID like real time backup of one or more member s distributed data media content etc. Such distributed processes and associated data can be limited to one or more SNET groups such as a household social group with auto docking and may be utilized for a wide variety of other purposes such as robotic control of a group of social robots. Similarly content or applications software e.g. imaging services residing on a docked social device may be accessed by another social device.

In a further embodiment an application docked as a SNET group member may be configured automatically as a DMZ member with underlying functionality such as a guest member having access to some SNET group resources but not others. For example in an embodiment involving gaming activities joinder of an SNET group by a gaming application and game member might result in service offerings to other SNET group members including without limitation configuration services based at least in part on underlying device limitations capabilities. Similarly docking of members may also trigger antivirus and malware detection services within the SNET group spanning all or a subset of implicated social devices services and software.

Network elements may include by way of example and without limitation network attached storage NAS firewalls and VPNs social or allocable communication resources networking communication proxies and gateways security and DRM hardware firmware robotic interfaces databases etc. Such resources may be allocated and utilized for specific purposes or in support of one or more services and distributed processes such as those described herein. Various approaches may be utilized for managing and allocating network elements as well as services and other resources. Exemplary methods for access to social network offerings including through the use of general or member class specific access rights as well as dynamic reallocation of resources is discussed in further detail in at least U.S. Utility patent application Ser. No. 13 408 986 entitled Social Device Resource Management filed Feb. 29 2012 incorporated by reference herein in full for all purposes.

Various functions and resources of the social billing and payment elements may include by way of example and without limitation a smart digital electronic wallets invoicing billing interfaces tracking and reporting functions proxy functions NFC Bluetooth support transaction security functions etc. In one exemplary embodiment of the disclosure utilizing various of social billing and payment elements payment authentication services are performed on a per device using a SIM card bar code or the like or per SNET basis. For example reading a bar code may trigger connection with a social network providing various options including payment options and or enable another SNET member e.g. a family member or processing node to assume responsibility for payment of fines fees gaming credits spending limits etc. In this instance an electronic invoice can be forwarded to the SNET group and or responsible SNET member and payment may be conducted through NFC type functionality associated with an social electronic wallet bank account credit card etc.

Payment may be subject to individual or circle by circle purchasing limits and require one or more security authentication steps. For example a social member set top box may incorporate smart credit debit card information and an associated billing interface element or application application interface to assist in performing billing transactions including transactions involving confirmation via a separate communication pathway and or social member a smart phone for example . Purchasing payments crediting receipts addition of credits and awards etc. may be conducted and communicated within a particular circle s via a SNET member application or application interface. Security and security proxy functions may also be integrated into a social billing process according to the disclosure.

As will be appreciated a SNET group may be configurable to perform and utilize a wide variety of functions and services including both member and non member services and selection of such services for use by a particular SNET group may occur in a variety of ways. By way of example a member device may offer a menu of available services to an affiliated human for use in selecting local or remote services for docking as a group member or otherwise activating and or configuring services. Alternatively services themselves including member services or cloud based services might generate an invitation that can be accepted by one or more SNET group members or affiliates. In other embodiments a device that incorporates a social service e.g. a social device purchased by a human member of an SNET group can be activated and docked as a member of an SNET group thereby making the social service available to other group members and affiliates. Alternatively a service incorporated in a device rather than the full device may be docked with a SNET group.

Further a social service in accordance with the disclosure may have multiple portions that run on different nodes of an SNET group or SNET support infrastructure. Using a media streaming service as an example a portion of such service may operate on a docked social device e.g. a device with media display capabilities while other portions of the service such as storage billing or menu functions may run on other SNET group nodes such as a NAS device or social billing and payment element . The media streaming service may incorporate or operate in concert with other services including external or third party services such as a transcoding service that scales video for consumption by a variety of devices. Such video might be offered for example via a multi port STB gateway such as that described in conjunction with that maintains IP address information linkages device configurations etc. and may deliver video via a direct or proxied communication pathway.

In the illustrated embodiment operation of the AI robotic SNET group is supported by SNET infrastructure including social robotic interfaces support and processing to support for example human to robot and robot to robot interaction factory robot monitoring etc. Further the AI robotic SNET group incorporates or supports a variety of intelligent services including training and customization services data and program exchange services software maintenance services load balancing and arbitration services security functionality membership and docking support etc.

In certain embodiments such services may be used to establish configure and maintain for example robotic and other configurable products robotic manufacturing assembly or other specialized processes. Select services also provide for the cloning of software hardware configurations and data exchange to facilitate setup and replication of robotic processes and activities experience and training sharing e.g. neural networking enhanced processes resource allocation and load balancing control monitoring support and hardware software maintenance operations etc.

Various nodes and elements of the AI robotic SNET group may share functional control of robotic and AI activities and or interact with a central control point e.g. robotic controls and monitoring . For example human members or proxies thereof may direct operation of SNET group functions and or be the subject of such functions. Authorized access to services and resources of the SNET group can be facilitated through unique biometric identifiers passwords token based identification trusted authorities or documents such as a driver s license or passport and like authentication means.

Other entities may also interact with the AI robotic SNET group including by way of example vehicle manufacturers automobile owners hospitals and medical providers repair shops insurance companies governmental inspection and compliance agencies emergency services devices and other third parties that might have an interest in communicating with or participating in the AI robotic SNET group . In another embodiment an AI robotic SNET group may itself join another SNET group or form one or more SNET sub groups. In various embodiments AI and robotic elements of the SNET group may operate as social devices social parent devices and social child devices as described below in conjunction with including functioning as a child parent for one or more human members .

As described more fully in conjunction with the illustrated social devices or alternatively services may operate in a social device hierarchy comprising social devices social parent SP devices and social child SC devices. Briefly SP devices may enable associated SC devices to interact and or connect with a social network either directly or indirectly. Social capabilities of a SC device can be provided via a SP device.

Further certain social devices according to various embodiments and applications of the disclosure such as the STB gateway and downstream devices may concurrently or selectively function as a social device SP device and or SC device. Associations between SP and SC devices may be established in a selective automatic or automated manner. For example docking of the STB gateway with a SNET infrastructure may result in automatic docking of user s home devices.

The STB gateway of the illustrated embodiment interacts with a SNET infrastructure and SNET external media systems via one or more wired and wireless networks links . The wired and wireless networks links and may utilize one or more of various transmission media such as coaxial cable shielded twisted pair cable fiber optic cable power line wires and wireless media radio frequencies microwave satellite infrared etc. and operate in accordance with a variety of communication and networking protocols TCP IP UPnP IPv6 etc. . In addition the wired and wireless networks links may comprise a multi hop network utilizing a spanning tree protocol direct wireless connections peer to peer links etc.

The SNET external media systems may comprise for example one or more of cable satellite and or terrestrial televisions systems. Various headend equipment and services can be utilized by these systems such as a cable headend that receives television signals for further processing and distribution and may offer various other services such as internet connectivity.

While the illustrated STB gateway functions as a social parent device in alternate embodiments it could have a peer to peer or parent relationship with the SNET infrastructure and SNET members associated therewith or SNET external media systems . For example a cable headend itself might include social capabilities allowing it to participate as a node in a social network.

The STB gateway of the illustrated embodiment includes a broadcast unicast multicast front end that operates to receive compressed digital video digital audio and other data signals from either the SNET external media systems or SNET infrastructure for further processing and distribution. The front end comprises tuner circuitry operable to isolate particular channels. Signals from the tuner circuitry are then provided to analog to digital ADC circuitry and demodulation circuitry for conversion into binary format stream. Once in binary format forward error correction FEC circuitry checks the integrity of the received binary stream. Audio video and data extracted from the binary stream may then be decoded e.g. by decoding into formats suitable for consumption by downstream social devices. It is noted that demodulation circuitry may support one or more modulation techniques such as Quadrature Phase Shift Keying QPSK Quadrature Amplitude Modulation QAM Coded Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing COFDM etc.

The front end may be integrated into one or more semiconductor devices that may further support for example interactive digital television networked DVR functionality IP video over DOCSIS applications and 3D graphics support. In addition multiple tuner circuitry including in band and out of band tuners ADC circuitry and demodulation circuitry may be provided for different television standards such as PAL NTSC ATSC SECAM DVB C DVB T 2 DVB H ISDB T DMB Open Cable and modulation schemes. Further in certain embodiments sharing of channels and associated program information provided by the front end may be considered a social function.

In one alternative embodiment of the disclosure functionality of the STB gateway functionality is performed by a smartphone or mobile computing device. In this embodiment the front end comprises one or more wireless interfaces including PHY and baseband functions such as a cellular 3G 4G IMT Advanced etc. or wide area network WiMax etc. interface. The interface may support one or more modulation and multiplexing techniques such as OFDM OFDMA SC FDMA QPSK QAM 64QAM CSMA MIMO etc. In the illustrated embodiment the wireless interface comprises a transceiver analog to digital ADC and digital to analog DAC circuitry demodulation and modulation circuitry and FEC such as turbo codes or LDPC codes circuitry . Encoding decoding and transcoding functions may be provided by processing circuitry .

The STB gateway also includes upstream social communication interface circuitry for communicating with SNET infrastructure and or SNET external media system . Through the social communication interface circuitry the STB gateway may communicate directly with upstream resources or offer bidirectional bridged communications between such resources and devices e.g. social devices coupled to the STB gateway .

In the embodiment of STB gateway interacts with a variety of social devices and upstream resources via upstream social communication interface circuitry and downstream social child communication interface circuitry coupled to one or more wired and wireless communication networks . For example a television interface module communicates with a digital television or other media display device to relay television programming and enable available interactive services. Similarly an audio interface provides audio programming or audio library access to an audio system .

The communication interface circuitry further comprises a remote control interface for receiving control signals from a remote control . In addition to traditional remote control operations the remote control may further offer voice and or gesture control signals that are relayed or mapped to relevant consumer devices. User interfaces are also provided for communications with one or more user interface devices . Gaming interfaces function to provide interactive communications with a gaming system . Such communications may involve for example online multiplayer gaming between members a social network and or external players in a gaming platform.

Various communications between downstream devices may be bridged without substantive modification to various nodes in a social network via social bridging interfaces . Such bridging may operate independently of the set top functionality of the STB gateway . For example social child devices may communicate directly with a SNET infrastructure to receive social channel broadcasts from a social group or IPTV services.

The STB gateway of the illustrated embodiment includes processing circuitry which may be comprised of hardware software or combinations thereof social upstream downstream functionality support and decoding functionality to support social interactions such as those described above. Social upstream downstream functionality support in this embodiment includes various functions such as social bridging parent child services and other functionality such as functions of . It is noted that the processing circuitry may be made available in whole or part as a SNET resource.

Referring now to a schematic block diagram is shown for a social device operable to support various interactions between other social devices and social services and systems in accordance with an embodiment of the disclosure. The social device is configured with a variety of functions that enable it to operate in a social device hierarchy comprising social S devices social parent SP devices and social child SC devices. For example a social parent device may enable a docked social child device to access resources of the parent device and or connect to and interact with directly or indirectly with a social network. The social child device may be configured with inherent social capabilities or gain access to such capabilities from or through an associated parent device. Further a human SNET member might have associated social child devices or be served by a social parent device via a user I O interface .

A social device according to various embodiments and applications of the disclosure may also concurrently or selectively function as a social device SP device SC device or even a grandparent device that supports e.g. in a multi hop environment a parent device in a SNET group. Dynamic and static hierarchical associations between SP and SC devices may be established in a selective automatic or automated manner. Further a social device may take many forms including without limitation a smartphone personal computer server tablet device access point gateway network switch hub bridging device set top box or other device enabled with social capabilities.

In the illustrated embodiment the social device is communicatively coupled to a SNET infrastructure and or social parent system via upstream social communication interface circuitry . Likewise downstream social peer and or child communication interface circuitry enables coupling with a social child device social peer device and or social parent system device . Social resources of both upstream and downstream devices may be accessible to one another via the social device .

The social device of this embodiment includes social resources that along with external SNET resources are managed by a social resource management module and accessible to at least one other SNET group member. Specific social resources may include user I O interfaces general purpose and dedicated hardware processing circuitry peripheral circuitry and components which may or may not have social capabilities communication bandwidth and credit determination functionality e.g. for use by payment processing services switching bridging functions application software and fixed intelligent services remote social resources of the SNET group external social resources controlled by the social device etc. The external social resources may comprise for example an external data digital library or content from one or more of cable satellite and or terrestrial televisions systems.

Among other functions the social resource management module comprises access allocation arbitration and scheduling functionality as well as the functionality for establishing regaining and relinquishing control processing operations including operations involving access to social resources . It is noted that counterpart social resource management functionality may be present in the SNET infrastructure and or other SNET nodes.

In one exemplary embodiment wherein the social device comprises a switching bridge bandwidth capacity may be dynamically allocated by access allocation arbitration and scheduling functionality . Access to bandwidth capacity and other resources of the social device might be available only upon request per access views or per allocation and arbitration functions and selectively terminated when excessive bandwidth resources are consumed or requested.

In some embodiments one or more infrastructures are managed by one or more processing systems computers server devices network nodes social devices services or some combination thereof. For example in the illustrated embodiment some or all of the service SNET infrastructure one or more client SNET infrastructures and or some combination thereof may be managed by one or more social service support devices one or more client social devices and or some combination thereof. Processing systems can include without limitation one or more instances of processing circuitry distributed across one or more server devices or network nodes.

For example in the illustrated embodiment SNET grouping hierarchy includes a service SNET infrastructure in a first tier and multiple client SNET infrastructures and in a second tier. Infrastructures can include without limitation one or more SNET groups one or more services applications resources devices and the like associated with one or more entities which can include without limitation clients members of a SNET nonmembers of a SNET guests of a SNET etc. For example service SNET infrastructure may include user devices applications and SNET groups and associated with one or more services.

Similarly a client SNET infrastructure can include one or more client SNET groups and one or more social devices associated with one or more particular clients hereinafter referred to interchangeably as users members visitors guests and the like . For example a first client side infrastructure can include one or more SNET groups associated with a SNET member along with one or more social devices associated with the SNET member. As shown in the illustrated embodiment the social devices in a client infrastructure can be docked or otherwise affiliated with SNET groups associated with the client. At least one process of docking is discussed in further detail in at least U.S. Utility patent application Ser. No. 13 408 986 entitled Social Device Resource Management filed Feb. 29 2012 incorporated by reference herein in full for all purposes. In some embodiments a device or SNET group docked to another SNET group becomes a member of the SNET group to which it is docked. By docking a client social device to a client SNET group a user associated with a client SNET group may interact with the SNET group by interacting with a social device docked to the SNET group . Members clients users and the like may include without limitation human members of a SNET or some other network device members of a SNET or some other network certain fixed and intelligent services some combination thereof etc.

In some embodiments one or more capabilities which might include for example various services applications or SNET groups are mixed combined and or merged via a docking process into one or more SNET groups that can provide access to a desired selection of capabilities through interaction with the one or more SNET groups. For example service SNET infrastructure illustrates capabilities that can be provided by various service support social user devices and or various social servicing applications . In some embodiments access to various service support social user devices either directly or through interaction with a SNET group to which the service support social user devices are docked and access to various social servicing applications either directly or through interaction with a SNET group docked to the social servicing applications can be provided to SNET members.

One or more of the capabilities provided by the devices applications and SNET groups and may be combined into a single SNET group that can provide access to one or more capabilities provided by devices services applications SNET groups or some combination thereof. For example a user of a client SNET infrastructure can by docking a social device via a docking process which may be supported by local or distributed system circuitry to a single SNET group that itself combines SNET groups and gain access to the capabilities provided by both SNET groups and by docking with SNET group .

In some embodiments access to capabilities provided by one or more SNET groups infrastructures can be accomplished by docking one SNET group to another SNET group. For example a client SNET group can be docked via a docking process to SNET group thereby enabling a user of the client side infrastructure to access the capabilities provided by SNET group through the client SNET group . In particular where one or more social devices are docked to the client SNET group a user can access the capabilities provided by SNET group via one or more of the social devices that are docked with the client SNET group . A docking process can include joining client SNET group as a member of SNET group docking also referred to herein as associating client SNET group to SNET group via one of various processes described herein and in at least U.S. Utility patent application Ser. No. 13 342 301 entitled Social Network Device Memberships and Applications filed Jan. 3 2012 and U.S. Utility patent application Ser. No. 13 408 986 entitled Social Device Resource Management incorporated by reference herein in full for all purposes.

As an illustration of the above embodiment a user entering premises including without limitation a store restaurant hotel business public area and the like may desire to access capabilities including without limitation services applications information devices some combination thereof and the like provided by a SNET group associated with the premises. Rather than individually dock each of the user s devices with the SNET group the user can simply dock a personal SNET group to which the user s devices are docked with the SNET group associated with the premises thereby granting the user access to the premises capabilities through some or all of the devices that the user has docked with his personal SNET group. As a further example a hotel may provide various capabilities including without limitation access to a call routing phone service control of a particular television device access to a database payment and billing services etc. through a SNET group. Rather than individually dock his personal devices to the hotel s SNET group to utilize the capabilities provided including for example docking a smartphone device to the hotel SNET group to utilize the call routing phone service or docking a computer device to the hotel SNET group to control the particular television device the guest can simply dock his personal SNET group to the hotel s SNET group and then access the capabilities provided through the hotel s SNET group through a device docked with his personal SNET group.

In some embodiments docking SNET groups such that a user member client or the like can access capabilities provided by various services devices and SNET groups associated with various SNET infrastructures enhances security. For example where a user associated with a first client SNET infrastructure can only access capabilities provided by service SNET infrastructure by docking with SNET group various levels of security can be utilized by one or more processing systems devices associated with the service SNET infrastructure client SNET infrastructure etc. to ensure secure access to the capabilities.

In addition in some embodiments accessing capabilities provided by a SNET infrastructure by docking two or more SNET groups provides additional levels of security. For example where access to capabilities provided by service SNET infrastructure entails docking a client SNET group or the like to SNET group a more secure connection with various levels of security can be employed and access to the capabilities can be easily granted altered restricted or terminated via management of a single dock or association between a client SNET group and SNET group . A processing system device associated with the service SNET infrastructure or a client SNET infrastructure may manage the association based upon inputs received from a user a third party entity some internal logic elapse of a period of time a change in geographic location of a client social device associated with the client SNET infrastructure or some other trigger event.

In some embodiments the selection and docking process can be automated and or automatic. For example a docking process may be automatic by being triggered based upon a location of a user of an infrastructure including without limitation a geographic proximity of one or more of a user a social device associated with a user or a social device docked with a particular client SNET group . In some embodiments a user can provide one or more association rules that can provide conditions under which one or more particular client SNET groups can be docked to other SNET groups. Conditions may include for example geographic proximity of one or more social devices docked to the particular client social to a geographic location associated with a SNET group authorization by a user associated with the infrastructure SNET group or social device to dock the client SNET group with SNET group . Association rules can be communicated to a social device docked with a particular SNET group or a processing system that manages docking of various SNET groups. A processing system a social device or some combination thereof can monitor a client SNET group social device docked to the client SNET group one or more attributes of another one or more SNET groups in relation to one or more attributes of one or more client SNET groups docked social devices or the like in relation to one or more association rules in order to determine whether to dock one or more SNET groups and or social devices services together. Association rules can be altered by a user or a processing system on the fly to create new rules delete rules alter rules etc. For example a user associated with a client SNET group who may have previously communicated to a processing system an association rule that prohibits docking the client SNET group to a SNET group beyond a threshold geographic proximity to a social device can communicate on the fly an alteration of the association rule that can include for example altering the threshold geographic proximity authorizing a docking of the client SNET group to a particular SNET group on a case by case basis ordering an undocking of a client SNET group from another SNET group etc.

In some embodiments various tiers of a SNET grouping hierarchy are subject to various levels of access to information and or services. For example in the illustrated embodiment a user of the higher tier service SNET infrastructure may be able to view each client SNET group and associated with a lower tier client SNET infrastructure and that is docked to a SNET group associated with the social service infrastructure . A user of the service SNET infrastructure may also be able to view the various social devices and docked to the various client SNET groups and . In another example one or more users of a lower tier infrastructure including without limitation client SNET infrastructure and may be able to view some or all of the capabilities provided through a SNET group associated with a higher tier infrastructure to which a SNET group associated with the lower tier infrastructure is docked but cannot view some or all of the higher tier infrastructure including without limitation various SNET groups and from which capabilities provided by SNET group are originally provided. Additionally a user of a lower tier infrastructure accessing a SNET group associated with a higher tier service SNET infrastructure may be unable to view some or all of the other similarly lower tier client SNET infrastructures and that are also docked with the same SNET group .

In some embodiments the selection and docking process can be controlled or managed by one or more various social devices or processing systems. For example a processing system of a SNET infrastructure which can include one or more instances of processing circuitry distributed across one or more server devices and or network nodes may control the docking and undocking of one SNET group to another based upon a user s interaction with the SNET one or more association rules one or more inputs some internal logic etc. As another example a social device may control the docking and undocking of one or more SNET groups based upon a user s interaction with the SNET one or more association rules one or more inputs some internal logic etc. In some embodiments a processing system or social device authorized to manage a higher tier infrastructure can manage one or more attributes of access by one or more lower tier infrastructures docked to the higher tier infrastructure. For example a processing system authorized to control a higher tier social service infrastructure may alter access to certain capabilities restrict access to certain capabilities and or terminate access via undocking of SNET groups and devices based upon input or other logic operation. The processing system may determine that a trigger event e.g. all social devices docked with a client SNET group docked to SNET group have exceeded a predetermined threshold of proximity distance from a geographic location associated with SNET group has occurred and based upon the determination undock the client SNET group from SNET group partially or fully restrict access by client SNET group to certain capabilities provided by SNET group etc.

Referring now to representative resource views according to various embodiments of the disclosure are illustrated. In some embodiments a user SNET member or SNET nonmember associated with a first infrastructure that is docked with a second infrastructure via one or more docked SNET groups or social devices services can access capabilities provided by the second infrastructure by interacting with a representative view. The representative view can be part of data provided by a processing system some part of the second infrastructure some part of the first infrastructure a social device associated with the first infrastructure a second device associated with the user some combination thereof or the like. For example where a client SNET group of the first social client side infrastructure is docked with a SNET group of the social service infrastructure that provides device access capabilities and provided by SNET groups and a user may access capabilities provided by SNET group via interaction with a representative view . Where a client SNET group is docked with one or more client social devices a user may interact with some part of one or more social devices to access capabilities provided by SNET group via the client SNET group directly via the social devices etc.

In some embodiments a representative view can provide a simplified representation of the services and other capabilities that can be accessed via a docking of one or more SNET groups or devices. For example while SNET group provides capabilities and by merging the SNET groups and a representative view provided to a member accessing SNET group e.g. via a docked client SNET group or AI agent proxy node may display only the capabilities provided by SNET group with little or no indication of the true complexity of the groups and that are combined to enable SNET group to provide capabilities and . A member accessing the capabilities and via a representative view may access the capabilities and by interacting with representations of those capabilities included in representative view . Interaction with the representative view can in some embodiments proceed via interaction with some part of a docked social device including without limitation a user interface service or a part of a docked client SNET group .

In some embodiments one or more third party SNET groups associated with separate members infrastructures and the like are docked with a first SNET group to enable members of the third party SNET group to access some or all of information and resources services associated with the first SNET group. For example in the illustrated embodiment an AI agent proxy can be docked to client SNET group thereby enabling access to some or all of the information provided to members of client SNET group capabilities provided by SNET group that is docked to client SNET group etc.

As an example of the above a traveler may desire to dock a client SNET group or agent proxy associated with his company to a personal client SNET group associated with his business travels. By docking in this manner the traveler may enable members of the company s agent proxy to view the traveler s whereabouts provided to members of his personal client SNET group access at least some of the capabilities provided to the traveler by docking with other SNET groups via the same or a similar representative view e.g. access and manage his travel reservations provide relevant travel and business update information to the traveler on the fly etc. etc. Such dockings can be managed by the traveler s social device by the social service infrastructure based upon input provided by the traveler by one or more other devices or services or some combination thereof. For example the traveler may authorize only limited access by docked third party AI agents proxies to information associated with his personal client SNET group to services and other capabilities provided by a docked SNET group . Further the traveler may authorize access restrictions undocking and like operations based upon on the fly input or one or more trigger events. Trigger events can include without limitation a change in geographic location associated with one or more social devices associated with the traveler a change in authorization information provided by an entity etc.

In some embodiments distinct representative views can be provided where separate SNET groups and or SNET services and devices associated with a lower tiered infrastructure are docked to a higher tiered infrastructure in a SNET grouping hierarchy. In the illustrated embodiment for example client SNET group and client SNET group which are associated with a first social client side infrastructure and an Nth social client side infrastructure respectively are each docked to SNET group associated with social service infrastructure . In the illustrated embodiment a first representative view is provided to a member accessing the capabilities of SNET group through the client SNET group a docked social device and or AI agent proxy and an nth representative view is provided to a member accessing the capabilities of SNET group through client SNET group a docked social device or some combination thereof.

In some embodiments representative views provided to separate docked SNET groups are distinct and separate. For example in an embodiment where SNET group provides capabilities associated with a hotel experience including without limitation remote control of a television device or payment services and wherein docked client SNET groups and are associated with separate hotel guests the capabilities provided via one or more separate representative views can be distinct such that the hotel guest can access capabilities customized to the guest. Where the guest is not a SNET member the guest can be invited to create a temporary guest SNET group or an ad hoc SNET group and then dock the created SNET group to another SNET group to access capabilities provided by the other SNET group.

Referring now to a social networking grouping hierarchy and representative resource views according to various embodiments of the disclosure are illustrated. The SNET grouping hierarchy can enable a client SNET group AI agent service and or proxy client SNET group to dock to a SNET group that provides capabilities from various infrastructures. In the illustrated embodiment two infrastructures and are combined docked or otherwise associated to provide capabilities from both through a single combined SNET group . The global social service infrastructure includes capabilities provided by social service support user devices social servicing applications and various SNET groups and that provide some combination of the services and other capabilities provided by the infrastructure .

In addition the local regional social service infrastructure also includes capabilities provided by social service support user devices social servicing applications and various SNET groups and that provide some combination of the services and other capabilities provided by the infrastructure . The combined local regional and global SNET group provides a combination of the capabilities provided by the social service support user devices and and the social servicing applications and provided by both infrastructures and . Where client SNET group can be docked with SNET group a member of client SNET group will be able to access the capabilities provided by both infrastructures by docking a single client SNET group with a single SNET group .

In some embodiments a representative view provided to a member of client SNET group accessing the capabilities provided by SNET group includes only the combined capabilities provided by both infrastructures and independently of some or all indications of the infrastructure from which such capabilities are originally provided. In the illustrated embodiment for example the capabilities provided by the social service support user devices and from both infrastructures and are presented in the representative view as a combined set of social service support user devices likewise the social servicing applications and from both infrastructures and are presented in the representative view as a combined set of social servicing applications . In addition all of the SNET groups and in the infrastructures that are partially or fully combined into SNET group may be partially or fully transparent to a member accessing a representative view of the capabilities provided by SNET group . In some embodiments a member accessing representative view can restore the full complexity of the combination of infrastructures and in representative view such that the member can view the various SNET groups and capabilities specific to various infrastructures and provided capabilities.

As an example of the illustrated embodiment a hotel chain may provide a global SNET infrastructure that provides capabilities common to all hotels in the franchise such as a global media database corporate contact information information databases payment services and the like. In addition a certain local hotel may desire to have a local SNET infrastructure that provides access to local entertainment dining news information device access specific to the local hotel etc. The hotel may desire to combine the hotel chain s capabilities provided by the global SNET infrastructure with the location specific capabilities provided by the local SNET infrastructure into a combined SNET group to enable a hotel guest to access global and local capabilities with a single docking process and via a single representative that provides global and local capabilities partially or fully combined.

In some embodiments combinations of capabilities provided by separate distributed infrastructures are managed in part or in full by one or more distributed processing systems social devices members applications services etc. that are associated with one or more infrastructures. For example in the illustrated embodiment a processing system associated with the local SNET infrastructure may manage the combination of capabilities from infrastructures and into SNET group manage docking of client SNET groups with the SNET group or combinations thereof.

In some embodiments access to a SNET group by a client SNET group can be granted restricted and or terminated by a network manager processing system social device or some combination thereof according to an input a trigger event some other internal logic etc. For example when a social device docked with a client social device service of SNET group leaves a premises associated with a SNET group the client SNET group s access to capabilities provided by SNET group may be terminated by terminating or restricting access granted via docking changing authorization to interact with some or all capabilities provided by SNET group undocking the client social device from SNET group etc. This can occur automatically or in response to a trigger event including without limitation elapse of a predetermined time after entering or leaving the premises or the like. In some embodiments a client SNET group can maintain residual access to SNET group after a device docked to the client SNET group leaves the premises. For example where the premises associated with SNET group is a hotel and a member associated with client SNET group belongs to an exclusive hotel membership the client SNET group associated with the member may after a docked device leaves the premises still receive at least some access to capabilities provided by SNET group including without limitation payment services or a call routing phone service.

In some embodiments a SNET group associated with a member e.g. a human a device or a service can be docked to another SNET group to enable the member to access or receive services contact information other information associated with the SNET group exchange information etc. Such a member can be an existing member of a SNET a nonmember also referred to herein as a third party an authorized guest or the like. For example a human user with a device may approach within a threshold such as a proximity threshold of an access point for a premises upon which the access point or some other device associated with the premises delivers an invitation to the device service or human user via the device to dock to an SNGET group associated with the premises. The invitation can vary depending upon whether one or both the human user and the service device are already members of the SNET. For example where the device is not a social device the access point can deliver an invitation in the form of a web page to the device via a browser application or the like that offers the device or device user the option of joining a SNET group as an ad hoc member. Where the device is a social device the invitation can include a direct invitation to dock a SNET group with the premises associated SNET group via a social interface or user interface located within the device.

The invitation can be accepted via one of various acceptance processes. For example where a social device receives an invitation that includes a unique identifier indicating the SNET group to which the member is invited to dock the social device can interact with an access point another device a SNET SNET group SNET sub group and the like via an independent pathway to accept the invitation. Acceptance in the above example may include simply delivering the unique identifier and information identifying the SNET group associated with delivery of the unique identifier following which the SNET group is docked to the premises associated SNET group. In addition where a non social device attempts to access an access point and the access point pushes a web page to a browser application on the non social device the acceptance process can include accessing the web page indicating a desire to dock with the SNET group and perhaps providing other information . In response the non social device or an affiliated ad hoc guest SNET group is accepted and docked to the premises associated SNET group.

Upon accepting an invitation a human user service device or some combination thereof can gain at least partial access to capabilities provided by a premises associated SNET group. For example where the premises is a coffee shop a member whose personal SNET group is docked to a premises associated SNET group may gain access via one or more devices docked to his personal SNET group to various services including without limitation online newspapers videos a menu for item sales shopping options for home delivery ordering interface and payment services for on site delivery etc. In another example where the premises is a hotel or private residence a member whose personal SNET group is docked to a premises based SNET group may gain access via one or more devices docked to his personal SNET group to services and information without limitation access to locally or remotely stored content items contact information access to control functional elements of on site robotic devices etc. In another example where the premises is a shopping mall an access point may deliver push or the like an invitation to a device or user of the device to dock to a SNET group associated with the mall. The access point may require that the device or user attempt to access the access point before the invitation is delivered in the form of a unique identifier or web page. Services associated with the SNET group can include without limitation advertising sales and coupon information provided by computing devices of retail locations within the mall a mall mapping service that show those docked to the SNET group the locations of particular stores a mall music service that provides those docked to the SNET group with music or other media content served by media sources associated with the SNET group telephone directory services a search engine relating to anything within any store in the mall etc.

In some embodiments an access point supports delivery of invitations to dock to a SNET group processing acceptances of invitations and routing of communications between members ad hoc members and potential members of a SNET SNET group. An invitation may be triggered by an attempt to associate with the access point. In other embodiments the access point automatically provides the invitation to any device that the access point determines has crossed a threshold such as a predetermined proximity threshold or location. Those docked to the SNET group including ad hoc members SNET groups ad hoc SNET groups and or combinations thereof may be able to couple with other devices services that are also docked with the SNET group. Upon crossing another or the same threshold docking to the SNET group can be terminated or restricted. For example where a device that enters a premises is offered an ad hoc docking to a SNET group by an access point the access point may restrict or terminate the ad hoc docking upon determining that the device has left the premises.

In some embodiments various SNET groups are created by a SNET infrastructure based upon on an input from a user member processing system device service SNET SNET group etc. For example where SNET infrastructure is associated with a SNET member account a member of the account may provide input to the SNET infrastructure to create SNET group . The input can include without limitation attributes of the group social devices services to be docked with the group information to be accessible to one or more members of group etc.

In some embodiments a SNET group in a SNET infrastructure is docked with another SNET group. For example in the illustrated embodiment SNET group is docked with SNET group and SNET group via docking links and respectively. Docking one SNET group to another SNET group can be accomplished via one or more various docking processes including without limitation sole initiation of docking by one or more devices or SNET groups.

In some embodiments a docking process can include interactions between at least portions of both a first SNET group and a second SNET group. For example where SNET group is to be docked to SNET group via docking link SNET group and SNET group may exchange security information processing and the like for one or more members docked devices functional elements accessible information etc. Such exchanges can enable additional security verifications of appropriate interactions and access between the two SNET groups and their respective members. In some embodiments additional security processes such as human confirmation requirements are employed to ensure secure access to capabilities of one or more docked SNET groups and or resources.

In some embodiments a docking process can include various actions performed by one or more of a SNET SNET system SNET infrastructure processing system SNET group social device user member or some combination thereof. Such actions may include without limitation verifying an optimal docking location or arranging a presentation of docking links to a prospective member. For example a user associated with SNET infrastructure may interact with the infrastructure to dock SNET group to some part of SNET infrastructure . The docking process can include without limitation determining an optimal docking configuration between SNET group and one or more various SNET groups in SNET infrastructure to enable access by a member of SNET group to certain services and capabilities of SNET infrastructure .

As shown in the illustrated embodiment SNET group can be docked with both SNET group via docking link and SNET group via docking link as part of a single docking process to associate SNET group with certain capabilities provided by various SNET groups in SNET infrastructure where the optimum docking configuration is determined to include docking SNET group to both SNET group and SNET group to access such capabilities. The docking links and can be governed by a single docking specification or some other combination of docking specifications that are part of SNET infrastructure . In some embodiments docking links and docking specifications can be docked or otherwise associated in one to one type relationships one to many type relationships many to one type relationships etc.

In some embodiments a docking process that associates SNET group with certain capabilities of SNET infrastructure via docking with both SNET group and SNET group may include arranging a presentation of the docking links such that a member accessing the capabilities does not see a full view of the complexity of the docking links and interactions between various SNET groups devices services and SNET infrastructures. In the illustrated embodiment for example a docking process for docking SNET group with SNET groups and may include arranging a presentation or representative view of the capabilities of SNET group that hides the fact that SNET group is being docked via two docking links to two SNET groups. A simplified presentation or representative view may present only a view of SNET group being docked with certain capabilities of SNET infrastructure . In some embodiments a member may adjust toggle or otherwise manipulate the complexity of the presentation or representative view such that a partial or full view of the complexity of the docking links and interactions between the SNET infrastructures SNET groups and social devices or services is presented to a member.

In some embodiments establishing multiple docking links can provide additional security for access to certain capabilities. For example where a docking link between SNET group and SNET group includes a high security link to a certain capability than may be provided for by a second route e.g. via SNET group through docking links and the docking process may include replicating security requirements across alternate routes. In some embodiments establishing multiple docking links can provide more efficient access than a single docking link to capabilities and services. For example where a docking process includes a determination that a docking link to both SNET group and SNET group can enable a more efficient access to certain capabilities of SNET infrastructure than a single docking link a docking process can include establishing multiple docking links and to SNET groups of SNET infrastructure .

In some embodiments a docking link between various SNET groups and social devices services is managed based on various docking specifications. A docking specification can in some embodiments manage one or more particular docking links and set forth for example and not by way of limitation access limitations restrictions and grants associated with various capabilities of a SNET group security access requirements periods of access trigger events upon which access is to be altered restricted granted and or terminated.

For example as shown in the illustrated embodiment SNET group includes docking specifications and . Docking specification can in some embodiments govern the docking link between SNET group and SNET group . Likewise docking specification can in some embodiments govern the docking link between SNET group and SNET group . A docking specification can be predetermined in part or in full by a member of SNET group in advance of a docking created on the fly as part of a docking process to dock SNET group to another SNET group provided by the SNET infrastructure or a SNET group that attempts to dock with SNET group etc. For example a member of SNET group may establish docking specification that restricts access by members of SNET group to capabilities provided by SNET group based upon a later trigger event including without limitation elapse of a period of time. In some embodiments a docking specification is specific to certain attributes of other SNET groups and devices such that the SNET group is docked to various SNET groups with correlating attributes. For example Docking specification may dictate that SNET group is to be docked via docking link to a SNET group that is associated with a geographic location that is within a predetermined proximity threshold to a geographic location associated with SNET group and that the docking link is to be restricted or terminated if the geographic location associated with SNET group exceeds the proximity threshold.

In some embodiments some or all of a docking specification can be dynamically adjusted managed altered created or deleted based upon an input from a user member or other node in a SNET group infrastructure. For example a member of SNET group may establish docking specification to govern docking link with SNET group to restrict access by a member of SNET group to certain capabilities of SNET group and then interact with SNET group SNET infrastructure etc. to alter docking specification to provide greater access by a member of SNET group to capabilities provided by SNET group . Such management of a docking specification can be performed at any time in a scheduled or ad hoc process with regard to an existing docking link a docking specification governing potential docking links etc.

In some embodiments a docking specification governing a docking link between a higher tier SNET group and a lower tier SNET group is part of the higher tiered SNET group. For example in the illustrated embodiment where SNET group is a higher tiered SNET group and SNET groups and are lower tiered SNET groups the docking links and between the lower tiered SNET groups and and the higher tiered SNET group are governed by docking specifications and that are part of the higher tiered SNET group thereby enabling control by a higher tiered SNET group over docking links associated with lower tiered SNET groups.

In some embodiments a docking specification can be tailored by a user member SNET system SNET infrastructure SNET group or social device service to provide various levels of interaction and access between various docked SNET groups. For example in the illustrated embodiment docking specification may dictate that docking link provides full bi directional interactions sharing of information services and the like between SNET groups and via docking link . In another example docking specification may dictate that docking link provides a one way group to group service access between SNET group and SNET group via docking link such that a member of SNET group can access at least some services provided by capabilities of SNET group but a member of SNET group cannot access some or all information services devices or other resources associated with SNET group . For example where a hotel guest s SNET group is docked with a hotel s SNET group to grant the hotel guest access to hotel service capabilities via the hotel s SNET group a docking specification governing the docking link between the hotel guest s SNET group and the hotel s SNET group may specify that the hotel guest is restricted from accessing certain capabilities of the hotel s SNET group while the hotel s SNET group is restricted from accessing any of the capabilities of the hotel guest s SNET group including without limitation access to devices docked to the hotel guest s SNET group. As discussed above such access and interaction aspects of a docking specification can in some embodiments be altered at any time by various users members SNET groups SNET infrastructures etc.

In some embodiments a docking specification places certain restrictions on capabilities of a SNET group that are offered and provided to members of docked SNET groups. For example docking specification may dictate that only certain capabilities of SNET group are to be provided to a member of SNET group via docking link . Docking specification may also dictate that each member of SNET group be provided with a distinct access to a distinct one or more capabilities of SNET group . For example docking specification may dictate that each member of SNET group be provided a unique access to one or more capabilities of SNET group .

In some embodiments a docking link between various SNET groups enables access by additional SNET groups to capabilities provided by SNET groups to which additional SNET groups are indirectly associated or docked. For example in the illustrated embodiments where SNET group is docked to SNET group via docking link SNET group is docked to SNET group via docking link . Docking link is governed by docking specification in SNET group . In some embodiments a member of SNET group may be granted access to at least some capabilities of SNET group to which a member of SNET group is granted access. Access to capabilities of SNET group by a member of SNET group can be determined by various docking specifications including without limitation docking specification that governs the docking link between SNET group and SNET group and docking specification that governs the docking link between SNET group and SNET group . For example docking specification may control access by a member of SNET group to certain capabilities of SNET group via docking link by restricting access to capabilities of SNET group by a SNET group that is docked to SNET group . In another example docking specification may specify that a member of SNET group may access none some or all of the services and capabilities of other SNET groups including without limitation SNET group to which SNET group is docked.

In some embodiments various SNET groups can be docked to each other such that some or all of the docked SNET groups gain access or some or all of the services and capabilities of the other docked SNET groups. In the illustrated embodiment for example SNET infrastructure includes SNET group which is docked via docking link governed by docking specification to SNET group and is also docked via docking link governed by docking specification to SNET group . In addition SNET group is docked via docking link governed by docking specification to SNET group as a result SNET groups and are each docked to each other. The docking links between the SNET groups and can provide various levels of access including without limitation various levels of security. In addition in some embodiments docking to one of the SNET groups in SNET infrastructure can grant access to some or all of the capabilities of some or all of the SNET groups to which the one of the SNET groups is docked.

For example in the illustrated embodiment SNET group can be docked to SNET group via docking link . Communication flowing through the docking link can be subject to various docking specifications depending on the origin and destination of the communication flow. For example for media content originating from the SNET group via group member devices or for storage or services associated directly with the SNET group a docking specification may govern any attempted access via a docking link to such media content. Such access can include without limitation receipt of media content delivery of media content identifying media content information associated with the media content payment authorizations etc.

For example where a foreign SNET group including without limitation a SNET group associated with a separate SNET infrastructure docks to a SNET group that includes a first second and third media content originating from group member devices storage and or services associated directly with the SNET group the docking specification may specify that 1 the existence of the first media content is not to be identified to the foreign SNET group 2 the second media content can be identified to at least the foreign SNET group as existing but requires a high level of DRM and is offered at a reduced quality and or 3 the third media can be identified to at least the foreign SNET group as existing and is offered in its original form without redistribution and consumption restrictions. Likewise docking specification limitations placed on data or media content originating from the SNET group may permit chained access by the SNET group s or some combination thereof via one or more of SNET group SNET group etc.

In addition to docking specification limitations applicable to local group offerings various docking specification limitations may also apply to chained offerings. For example the SNET group may freely provide access by any other SNET group via a direct docking link to SNET group or via an indirect link via a docking link to a SNET group that is docked to SNET group to all offerings including without limitation services content data access to docked devices etc. Such freely provided access can be defined in some embodiments via the docking specification . However the docking specification may place restrictions on access via SNET group including without limitation not permitting any access or knowledge of some or all offerings from any external SNET group to which SNET group is docked including without limitation SNET groups and . In this manner and depending on the docking linkage and chained SNET groups and device specifications offerings may be managed in various ways depending on underlying needs.

In some embodiments such linkages and chain management of overall offerings apply twice one for each direction of access. For example offering restrictions associated with the SNET infrastructure can be completely different from those of the SNET infrastructure . In addition even though all relevant docking specifications within the SNET infrastructure may permit at least limited access to a particular offering to the SNET Group such access may not extend to for example the SNET group due to the docking specification placing further access restrictions beyond those required by the SNET infrastructure a relevant docking specification within the SNET infrastructure that limits foreign linkages etc.

For example in an ad hoc travel network docking configuration a personal SNET group construct of a traveler e.g. the SNET infrastructure might desire to provide very limited access to a hotel s SNET group construct e.g. the SNET infrastructure while in the other direction the hotel s SNET group construct offerings may be freely provided. Each construct need only provide access to whatever offerings membership identification information and the like that they would like to expose. A traveler may choose to expose for example a payment service element located somewhere within the overall personal SNET group construct the traveler s social smartphone s incoming message service an administrator s incoming message service and or a travel document storage service. The hotel may choose to expose capabilities offerings and the like including without limitation a regional directory a map and other information services a concierge service a billing service a reservation service networked office equipment etc. Exposure in either case can be defined for example via various docking specifications associated with the originating SNET group as modified by the docking specifications associated with the SNET groups in the chained pathway to the destination.

In some embodiments docking specifications can be extended to provide resolution beyond that of a group level. For example the docking specification governing docking link may require human authentication and various levels of security before providing access via docking link . In another example as defined by the docking specification a traveler e.g. a member of the SNET group may gain access to a particular offering provided by one element service or device participant in the SNET Group via a required secure interaction with the traveler s local social smart phone as docked to SNET group . However some or all other members of SNET group or other SNET groups may not gain access to the particular offering. In other words for one or more particular SNET group offerings capabilities offering identifiers etc. and for one or more particular group members chained docking specification details can be established to manage overall access including without limitation limited access. Although shown functionally as being distributed docking specification flow can be managed by a single user interface and may be stored in a single database construct.

In some embodiments default docking specifications can apply a default treatment for access offerings interactions etc. with regard to one or more particular SNET groups but permit specific offering access modifications where needed by authorized SNET nodes and or groups. Likewise overall default treatment can be modified.

In some embodiments a docking specification can be part of one or more SNET groups SNET infrastructures social device etc. For example where a docking process to dock SNET group to SNET group is initiated by a device docked to SNET group docking specification may be a part of SNET group . In addition where a docking process to dock SNET group to SNET group includes some part of SNET infrastructure receiving and granting a docking request from some part of SNET infrastructure docking specification may be a part of SNET group . In some embodiments a docking request can include without limitation a request to dock one SNET group to another SNET group a request to provide a first SNET group s capabilities including without limitation services and device resources to one or more devices docked to a second SNET group. A docking request can originate from a device docked to the first SNET group a device docked to the second SNET group a member of the first SNET group a member of the first SNET group a third party or some combination thereof.

By docking to SNET group SNET group may access some or all of the capabilities of SNET group and SNET group as specified by one or more of docking specifications and . Conversely where SNET group docks with SNET group SNET group may access some or all of the capabilities of SNET group and SNET group as specified by one or more of docking specifications and .

In some embodiments docking various SNET groups with other SNET groups can include access restrictions and limitations. For example where SNET group is docked to SNET group which is docked to SNET group all within SNET infrastructure various levels of interaction and access by the various SNET groups can be determined via management of the various docking specifications and governing the docking links. All three docked SNET groups and can be enabled to have access to some or all of each other s capabilities SNE group may have access to capabilities of SNET group while SNET group has access to capabilities of SNET group SNET groups and may have access to each other s capabilities while SNET group has access to some of the capabilities of SNET group and some of the capabilities of SNET group . Such interactions access and dockings may be performed without any interaction with a third party entity or third party SNET group.

In some embodiments where a third party entity or third party SNET group is involved in a docking link additional interaction with such third party may be required. For example where SNET group is to be docked to SNET group and the respective SNET groups are part of separate SNET infrastructures docking access or the like may require interaction with a third party. Interaction may include by way of example a security challenge invitation and or acceptance to a member of SNET group that is attempting to access services or other capabilities of SNET group . In some embodiments a docking process between SNET groups associated with separate SNET infrastructures can be initiated managed or the like by various nodes of a SNET infrastructure. For example a docking between SNET group and SNET group may be managed by one or more devices docked to SNET group one or more devices docked to SNET group one or more devices docked to a third party SNET group one or more processing systems one or more SNET infrastructures etc.

In some embodiments a SNET travel group facilitates and or monitors travel activities activities associated with an aspect of a social device an aspect of the social device and or a SNET group associated with a member. An activity can include one or more events including trigger events the occurrence of which can influence at least one aspect of the SNET group. The SNET travel group can be docked to SNET groups comprising entities relevant to one or more activities travel companions family members friends and people to be visited restaurants coupon rebate services etc. A member of a SNET travel group which can be temporary or persistent can receive for example detailed hotel information including confirmations rates feedback amenities restaurant recommendations nearby attractions etc. an attendee list for a social event excursion babysitter monitoring services etc. In some embodiments one or more elements associated with the SNET travel group can be managed by one or more processing systems server devices network nodes remote devices or the like in response to one or more trigger events or inputs from one or more SNET group members nonmembers.

In the illustrated embodiment a member or device of a SNET group or alternatively an unaffiliated entity or node of SNET group sub group accesses social group services and resources associated with the SNET group via a services and resource management node . The services and resource management node of this embodiment comprises access rights access views dynamic re allocation functionality arbitration functionality and security functionality .

In operation the access rights and access views control differing access levels and access visibility for a member s personal information device information data services processing and storage capabilities and other social resources. Access rights and access views can be predefined for example based on a SNET group based on co member devices or based on member s own device to device interactions. Such predefinition can be tailored dynamically as needed or as relationships change. Access rights may also be expanded to support temporary interaction with a guest member or visitor device. For example a visiting member with a smart phone may be permitted to receive provide media to a social device residing in a home circle. 

In some embodiments a member of the SNET group can adjust and modify access rights on an information by information basis device by device basis member by member basis etc. Through access views the member might also present itself in various ways depending on context location or use based considerations. For example a member icon avatar may present differing characteristics or capabilities that are context dependent including work home or social settings. Allocation and as necessary dynamic reallocation of social services resources is performed by dynamic re allocation functionality and arbitration functionality . Access to social services resources can be preconditioned on secure access authentication performed by security functionality .

In addition to social group services and resources the SNET group might include for example a SNET server and one or more human or AI personas functions members and affiliated social devices services applications files web pages connections and other social resources. As will be appreciated a human member can establish selective or tiered access to personal information and associated social device profiles and other resources as described above. In certain embodiments the services and resource management node may be incorporated in system circuitry of an SNET proxy server or other SNET social device or administered by a SNET hosting infrastructure either in a standalone or distributed manner. Further the SNET server may include a firewall operable to provide secure access and perform basic routing functions.

Access to social group services and resources by nodes of the SNET group sub group may occur in a variety of ways including via a user interface UI utilized by one or more humans . The UI might comprise a graphical user interface GUI or browser that graphically indicates available resources voice controls gesture commands etc. Access to the SNET group can also be managed by a proxy server . The proxy server functions as an intermediary for access requests from proxy clients including social services and or devices connected to the proxy server via the Internet or other IP based networks seeking to communicate with the SNET group . Social devices affiliated with a SNET group sub group may have the capacity to interact directly with the SNET group . It is noted that the human members proxy server and social devices may operate independently of a SNET group sub group. Further the proxy server may be a distributed or cloud based entity or a member of or incorporated in a member of either the SNET group sub group or SNET group .

The method continues in step with the creation of one or more circles or sub groups e.g. a distributed SNET group including a selection of available services and resources e.g. billing services or AI functions that may have related or specific characteristics and interdependencies etc. In one embodiment members may be added to a group through a drag and drop user interface or other means. In step access tiers and views are manually or automatically defined for select information services and other affiliated social resources. This step may be conducted in whole or part by means of a pop up table or form that requests tier settings and allows for personal tailoring of same. The member may select a particular group member device service or human self to reveal tier characteristics and allow modification of access rights. In some circumstances selection of access rights may be based on profile data and other characteristics of a particular device user or group seeking access to social resources. Further distinct access rights including content and capabilities access views may be assigned to different social device resources or groupings of resources or to a particular request for access to social resources.

In step access tier view characteristics are communicated to authorized SNET group members which may include social services or devices including the member s social devices human members AI functions personas a SNET and or one or more SNET groups. Next in step social services and resources are allocated in accordance with the access tiers and views communicated in step . Allocation of a social resource service may entail for example allocating the resource for dedicated use by a member of the SNET group either on a persistent or temporary basis subject to reallocation. Subsequent reallocation may occur for example if access to a previously allocated social resource is requested by a second member or non member having a higher priority or superior access rights to the resource. In certain embodiments of the invention social resources may be dynamically offered and allocated if when and to the extent such resources become available. Management of social resource reserves including termination of related services may be performed by individual devices groupings of devices and or centralized or distributed SNET processing circuitry and software.

Established levels of access rights are then applied to permit access to and allocation of the social resource service in step . If conflicting modified or additional requests for access are identified in step reallocation and or arbitration is performed in step as necessary to address conflicts or otherwise service such requests. In one embodiment wherein a particular device or user requires or requests a relatively large percentage of available resources services access may be denied or restricted including on a temporary or persistent basis. Alternatively other capable and available social resources service may be employed to resolve such requests. Potential overuse or abusive use of a SNET resource may be detected by SNET monitoring functionality that employs static or dynamic thresholds.

Referring now to a logic diagram is shown for a method for arbitrated access to social resources robotics in accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure. Upon activating or docking a social device resource robotics account information is automatically or via a setup prompt provided to the SNET group. Next in step operational control of the social device resource robotics is conferred to a node or distributed process of the SNET group. This node or process then generates contextually appropriate control signals etc. as shown in step . Such control signals and contextually related applications are communicated to the social device resource robotics possibly via a standardized communication protocol.

In response to the control signals the social device resource robotics performs one or more functions either automatically or as authorized by a user in step . Further interaction and data exchange with the social device resource robotics may occur in step including for example artificial intelligence neural network training operations control function customization software maintenance load balancing etc. In subsequent step control of the social device resource robotics is terminated or relinquished to a user or other SNET node.

In certain embodiments some social device resources robotics may support only one member interaction at a time with or without simultaneously supporting the underlying owner member. Other devices may support many multiple members devices AI humans as well as having dedicated functionality reserved for an owner. A standardized or manufacturer proprietary approach to control and certification marking may account for such variations in SNET device capabilities. Monitoring snooping of content e.g. for purposes of protecting copyright owners and like functionality could also be accomplished through compliance with such a standardized protocol.

In a further embodiment of a SNET SNET group according to the invention is illustrated an authorized guest member may control remote robotics and or the social devices of another via one of the guest s own social devices or vice versa. Such control can be established in advance at the factory or managed in real time via guest interaction. Utilization of certain control features such as features allowing content to be driven and played on another s device may be restricted for example to members or friends of a particular SNET group that allows content or process snooping.

By way of illustration a social camera might capture and store home video post a link thereto via a family SNET and then enter a low power sleep mode. A family circle member residing in another country for example could then activate an associated social television that participates in the family circle. Next a channel entry for the posted media may become visible and trigger video playback. In turn a command is triggered to wake up and stream video content to the social television.

As will be appreciated authorized control of another s social device enables a variety of other applications. By way of example a device user joins a church social circle and docks one or more of her social communication devices e.g. a smart phone . In conjunction therewith the church docks a social control application interface or social application managed for example by a priest pastor into the circle. Thereafter via automatic in range determinations GPS tracking WiFi NFC presence etc. the social control application interface delivers context appropriate control signals to the user s social device s . Other control signals may be provided to automatically collect donations or automatically deliver a prompt for same automatically deliver a hymnal provide a worship service agenda etc. For example the user phone may be instructed to enter into emergency only and do not disturb e.g. vibrate only modes of operation. Similarly social automated device control may be used to configure program or collect status information for appliance devices e.g. a washing machine or thermostat . A user may designate control jurisdiction and or data collection capabilities to a friend circle member s or application interface application.

In one embodiment either the SNET gateway or SNET circle gateway functions as a proxy for the social device . Proxy functionality within the SNET gateway may be provided by a software application or a computer system server that functions as an intermediary for requests from clients including connected social devices seeking resources from other servers or gateways such as SNET gateway . Such resources might include files services web pages connections profiling information and other available social device resources and other circle resources .

The SNET gateway may evaluate requests from social devices according to various filtering rules. For example the SNET gateway might filter traffic by IP address or protocol. Once a request from the social device validated if necessary the SNET gateway connects to the SNET circle gateway over a WLAN LAN or other communication path and requests access to resources of the SNET circle sub circle on behalf of the social device .

Membership in the SNET circle sub circle is established through a docking module of SNET processing circuitry and software which may support one or more device discovery and configuration protocols including standardized protocols. When circle membership is restricted a local or cloud based registrar can be employed to provide authentication. The registrar of the illustrated embodiment may utilize an administrator or a directory service such as a Lightweight Directory Access Protocol LDAP based directory server that stores attribute data. LDAP is a well known application protocol for querying and modifying items in directory service. When docking with an IP based SNET circle a social device may broadcast profile data to the local domain using a textual data format such as Extensible Markup Language XML . In one exemplary docking process a social device broadcasts a request to register with or access a SNET circle group. The request may occur as part of initiation or power up of the social device on a proximity or ad hoc basis or following another trigger event. The registration request may be received by at least one gateway device. The gateway functions to configure the social device such that it can communicate with other hosts. In an IP based network typical configuration information might include an IP address and default route and routing prefix. The gateway may be a standalone device multi function computing device etc. and can operate in an ad hoc manner or be persistent.

In one illustrative embodiment the network configuration protocol utilized by the gateway may be the Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol DHCP and related standards promulgated and maintained by the Internet Engineering Task Force IETF or similar protocol that automates network parameter assignment to network aware social devices services. In addition to eliminating the need for manual device configuration DHCP provides a central database of devices that are connected to the network and eliminates duplicate resource assignments.

Upon a trigger event e.g. power up registration with a SNET circle etc. the social device can transmit configuration capability information to one or more other devices. Such information may be advertised to specific devices identified by the social device. The configuration capability information may also be transmitted to any device in a SNET circle or any device capable of receiving the transmission. A device can in some embodiments determine the configuration capability information of other devices by querying them individually or as a group.

SNET circle resources may also be accessible via a zero configuration multi cast discovery protocol that locates devices such as printers and the services offered by those devices on a local network using a multicast discovery protocol and related service records or profiling information. Such a protocol may operate at the application layer and transmissions of configuration capability information can be used for example to identify and utilize common programming interfaces protocols packet formats and the like between two or more devices. In addition a bridge or proxy node that communicatively couples two or more devices may utilize a multicast type discovery and access protocol. In certain embodiments a bridge or proxy node may communicate or relay queries and advertisements regarding configuration capability information and may further operate to process transcode or modify transmissions relating to configuration capability information of devices.

Wide area service discovery of SNET circle resources may be enabled through an appropriately configured domain name service DNS server or the like or a multicast type protocol that performs DNS like operations. Further SNET circle resources may be configured to support interoperability guidelines and network protocols such as Universal Plug and Play UPnP that provide uniform mechanisms and restrictions for accessing resources and data over a network.

Depending on the particular implementation gateway DHCP server may utilize various methods to assign and allocate IP addresses. Briefly a network SNET circle administrator can assign a range of available IP addresses. Each social device can be configured to request an IP address when joining a SNET circle or during SNET circle initialization. Next an IP address can be granted using a lease approach that includes a configurable time period thereby enabling the gateway to dynamically reclaim and then reallocate IP addresses that are not renewed e.g. a social device powers off or otherwise terminates communication with a SNET circle .

Alternatively the DHCP server may permanently assign an available IP address to a social device. Under this approach and the lease approach the DHCP server maintains a table of previous IP address assignments such that it may preferentially assign an IP address that was previously assigned to a requesting social device. In yet another approach a DHCP server may restrict IP address assignment to devices included in a table with MAC address and IP address pairs.

Once the social device is configured the gateway communicates with a firewall to open up communication ports thereby permitting network transmissions to from the social device. Registered ports are typically used by networked applications as transitory source ports when contacting servers but they can also identify named services that have been registered by a third party.

In addition to opening ports for devices the firewall may function to advertise the social device to local and remote users devices and services over for example a WAN W LAN communication channel. In one embodiment social device IP addresses and profiles are communicated to SNET circle members and remote users devices. In another embodiment a gateway may function as a proxy such as described above for social devices including legacy devices that might otherwise require human involvement. The firewall may be software based e.g. as part of an operating system or comprise various combinations of software firmware and or hardware components. In addition the gateway may include bifurcated firewall functionality for connections to SNET circles sub circles and remote devices respectively.

When SNET circle membership is restricted a local or cloud based registrar can be employed to provide authentication services using a directory service for example . The registrar may be located in or on either side of the gateway including after firewall or it may operate independently of a gateway. Further the registrar might provide registration functions for both the social device and or a remoter user device.

When docking with an IP based SNET circle the social device may broadcast profile data to the local domain using a textual data format such as Extensible Markup Language XML . Upon successful docking of a new social device a SNET circle node e.g. docking module provides authorized access to SNET circle. It is contemplated that the social device may simultaneously participate in more than one SNET circle.

As noted SNET circle resources and social devices may be accessible via a zero configuration multicast discovery protocol that locates devices and the services offered by those devices on a local network using a related service records or profiling information. Such a protocol may operate at the application layer. Wide area service discovery of SNET circle resources configured in this manner may be enabled through an appropriately configured domain name service DNS server.

SNET circle communications in accordance with the disclosure may utilize a variety of transmission protocols. By way of example most communication over the Internet is currently performed in accordance with the Transmission Control Protocol TCP and User Datagram Protocol UDP . As is known TCP typically provides an intermediate level of communication services between for example an application program and the Internet Protocol IP . Port numbers are used to identify end points for sending and receiving applications on a host often referred to as Internet sockets or network sockets . Internet sockets facilitate delivery of incoming data packets to an appropriate application process or thread as determined by a combination of local and remote e.g. SNET circle IP addresses and port numbers. In some embodiments the Real time Transport Protocol RTP running over UDP may be employed for video streaming applications real time multiplayer gaming voice over IP VoIP and like applications that are tolerant of a certain level of packet loss and may not require a dedicated end to end connection.

A member of a SNET in accordance with various embodiments of the disclosure such as those disclosed herein may establish permissions and or privacy settings that control and restrict who or what may access the member s profile s information connections and circles as well as define desired degrees of access. Permissions may enable the user to maintain certain information as private or available on a permissive basis only. For example visibility of specified user information may be limited to users devices in a SNET s . Alternatively specified user information may be publicly available. Likewise a SNET member may selectively decide to permit others to access personal information such as name gender contact information email address etc.

The social device further includes processing circuitry operable to process and manage communications services and associations between the device and other entities including members of a SNET group sub group third parties software agents etc. More particularly the processing circuitry may include for example a software management application comprising one or more of docking logic including support for device discovery and configuration protocols such as described below communication protocol control service and resource management and security authentication functionality.

The social device further may utilize that may take many forms and be maintained in static or dynamic memory . Such profile information enables a social device and or user to present an image of itself and its capabilities to other members of a SNET. In particular device group profile information and other resources and user profile information may be utilized in various ways in accordance with the disclosure to facilitate a variety of social interactions. Depending on the capabilities and requirements of a particular device and other members of a SNET a device or user profile may be static or dynamic.

In certain embodiments the social device may interact with a user s via user interface circuitry . User input to the social device may include for example data entry through a keypad touchscreen remote control device gaming controller device control buttons voice or gesture commands storage device etc. For example voice or gesture commands may be utilized to trigger intelligent services. Authorized access to or control of the social device can be facilitated through unique biometric identifiers passwords token based identification trusted authorities or documents such as a driver s license or passport and like authentication means.

The social device may perform core or underlying functionality e.g. a social appliance security device vehicular communication node etc. . Alternatively the social device may primarily function as a social networking interface or communication device or be programmable to perform specific functions within a SNET group sub group.

As may be used herein the terms substantially and approximately provides an industry accepted tolerance for its corresponding term and or relativity between items. Such an industry accepted tolerance ranges from less than one percent to fifty percent and corresponds to but is not limited to component values integrated circuit process variations temperature variations rise and fall times and or thermal noise. Such relativity between items ranges from a difference of a few percent to magnitude differences. As may also be used herein the term s operably coupled to coupled to and or coupling includes direct coupling between items and or indirect coupling between items via an intervening item e.g. an item includes but is not limited to a component an element a circuit and or a module where for indirect coupling the intervening item does not modify the information of a signal but may adjust its current level voltage level and or power level. As may further be used herein inferred coupling i.e. where one element is coupled to another element by inference includes direct and indirect coupling between two items in the same manner as coupled to . As may even further be used herein the term operable to or operably coupled to indicates that an item includes one or more of power connections input s output s etc. to perform when activated one or more its corresponding functions and may further include inferred coupling to one or more other items. As may still further be used herein the term associated with includes direct and or indirect coupling of separate items and or one item being embedded within another item. As may be used herein the term compares favorably indicates that a comparison between two or more items signals etc. provides a desired relationship. For example when the desired relationship is that signal has a greater magnitude than signal a favorable comparison may be achieved when the magnitude of signal is greater than that of signal or when the magnitude of signal is less than that of signal .

As may also be used herein the terms processing module processing circuit and or processing unit may be a single processing device or a plurality of processing devices. Such a processing device may be a microprocessor micro controller digital signal processor microcomputer central processing unit field programmable gate array programmable logic device state machine logic circuitry analog circuitry digital circuitry and or any device that manipulates signals analog and or digital based on hard coding of the circuitry and or operational instructions. The processing module module processing circuit and or processing unit may be or further include memory and or an integrated memory element which may be a single memory device a plurality of memory devices and or embedded circuitry of another processing module module processing circuit and or processing unit. Such a memory device may be a read only memory random access memory volatile memory non volatile memory static memory dynamic memory flash memory cache memory and or any device that stores digital information. Note that if the processing module module processing circuit and or processing unit includes more than one processing device the processing devices may be centrally located e.g. directly coupled together via a wired and or wireless bus structure or may be distributed e.g. cloud computing via indirect coupling via a local area network and or a wide area network . Further note that if the processing module module processing circuit and or processing unit implements one or more of its functions via a state machine analog circuitry digital circuitry and or logic circuitry the memory and or memory element storing the corresponding operational instructions may be embedded within or external to the circuitry comprising the state machine analog circuitry digital circuitry and or logic circuitry. Still further note that the memory element may store and the processing module module processing circuit and or processing unit executes hard coded and or operational instructions corresponding to at least some of the steps and or functions illustrated in one or more of the Figures. Such a memory device or memory element can be included in an article of manufacture.

The present invention has been described above with the aid of method steps illustrating the performance of specified functions and relationships thereof. The boundaries and sequence of these functional building blocks and method steps have been arbitrarily defined herein for convenience of description. Alternate boundaries and sequences can be defined so long as the specified functions and relationships are appropriately performed. Any such alternate boundaries or sequences are thus within the scope and spirit of the claimed invention. Further the boundaries of these functional building blocks have been arbitrarily defined for convenience of description. Alternate boundaries could be defined as long as the certain significant functions are appropriately performed. Similarly flow diagram blocks may also have been arbitrarily defined herein to illustrate certain significant functionality. To the extent used the flow diagram block boundaries and sequence could have been defined otherwise and still perform the certain significant functionality. Such alternate definitions of both functional building blocks and flow diagram blocks and sequences are thus within the scope and spirit of the claimed invention. One of average skill in the art will also recognize that the functional building blocks and other illustrative blocks modules and components herein can be implemented as illustrated or by discrete components application specific integrated circuits processors executing appropriate software and the like or any combination thereof.

The present invention may have also been described at least in part in terms of one or more embodiments. An embodiment of the present invention is used herein to illustrate the present invention an aspect thereof a feature thereof a concept thereof and or an example thereof. A physical embodiment of an apparatus an article of manufacture a machine and or of a process that embodies the present invention may include one or more of the aspects features concepts examples etc. described with reference to one or more of the embodiments discussed herein. Further from figure to figure the embodiments may incorporate the same or similarly named functions steps modules etc. that may use the same or different reference numbers and as such the functions steps modules etc. may be the same or similar functions steps modules etc. or different ones.

Unless specifically stated to the contra signals to from and or between elements in a figure of any of the figures presented herein may be analog or digital continuous time or discrete time and single ended or differential. For instance if a signal path is shown as a single ended path it also represents a differential signal path. Similarly if a signal path is shown as a differential path it also represents a single ended signal path. While one or more particular architectures are described herein other architectures can likewise be implemented that use one or more data buses not expressly shown direct connectivity between elements and or indirect coupling between other elements as recognized by one of average skill in the art.

The term module is used in the description of the various embodiments of the present invention. A module includes a processing module a functional block hardware and or software stored on memory for performing one or more functions as may be described herein. Note that if the module is implemented via hardware the hardware may operate independently and or in conjunction software and or firmware. As used herein a module may contain one or more sub modules each of which may be one or more modules.

While particular combinations of various functions and features of the present invention have been expressly described herein other combinations of these features and functions are likewise possible. The present invention is not limited by the particular examples disclosed herein and expressly incorporates these other combinations.

