---

title: Transport agents for crossing the blood-brain barrier and into brain cancer cells and methods of use thereof
abstract: The present invention discloses methods and materials for delivering a cargo compound into a brain cancer cell and/or across the blood-brain barrier. Delivery of the cargo compound is accomplished by the use of protein transport peptides derived from outer membrane proteins, such as Laz. The invention also provides synthetic transit peptides comprised of the pentapeptide AAEAP. The invention further discloses methods for treating cancer, and specifically brain cancer, as well as other brain-related conditions. Further, the invention provides methods of imaging and diagnosing cancer, particular brain cancer.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08545812&OS=08545812&RS=08545812
owner: The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois
number: 08545812
owner_city: Urbana
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120525
---
This application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 and 120 to and is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 897 298 filed on Oct. 4 2010 and issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 188 251 on May 29 2012 which is a division of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 488 695 filed on Jul. 19 2006 and issued as U.S. Pat. No. 7 807 183 on Oct. 5 2010 which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 818 510 filed Jul. 6 2006 and U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 700 297 filed on Jul. 19 2005 and which is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application No. 11 244 105 filed on Oct. 6 2005 and issued as U.S. Pat. No. 7 691 383 on Apr. 6 2010 which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 616 782 filed on Oct. 7 2004 and U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 680 500 filed on May 13 2005 and U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 700 297 filed on Jul. 19 2005. The entire content of these applications is fully incorporated herein by reference.

The subject matter of this application has been supported by a research grant from the National Institutes of Health NIH Bethesda Md. U.S.A. Grant Number ES 04050 18 . The government has certain rights in the invention.

The development of new drugs for the brain has progressed at a much slower pace than that for the rest of the body. This slow progress has been due in large part to the inability of most drugs to cross the brain capillary wall which forms the blood brain barrier BBB to enter the brain. Approximately 100 of large molecule drugs and greater than 98 of small molecule drugs do not cross the BBB. Only a small class of drugs small molecules with a high lipid solubility and a molecular mass of less than 400 500 daltons actually cross the BBB. And of the small molecules that cross the BBB only a small percentage cross the BBB in a pharmaceutically significant amount. Pardridge Molecular Innovations 3 90 103 2003 

Only a few diseases of the brain respond to the small molecule drugs that can cross the BBB such as depression affective disorders chronic pain and epilepsy. Far more diseases of the brain do not respond to the convention lipid soluble small molecular mass drugs such as Alzheimer disease stroke neuroprotection brain and spinal cord injury brain cancer HIV infection of the brain various ataxia producing disorders amyotrophic lateral sclerosis ALS Huntington disease childhood inborn genetic errors affecting the brain Parkinson s disease and multiple sclerosis. Even the few diseases of the brain for which effective small molecule drugs are available require further research and the development of new and improved drugs. Id.

Particularly difficult to treat are cancers of the brain. The common forms of cancer in the brain are glioblastoma multiforme GBM and anaplastic astrocytoma AA . The mean survival for patients with GBM is approximately 10 to 12 months while the median survival for patients with AA is 3 to 4 years. For patients with GBM surgery will prolong their lives only a few months. Kufe et al. 23 and 83 6ed. BC Decker 2003 Most cases where treatment of GBM is by surgery and local irradiation result in relapse within 2 to 4 cm of the original tumor margins. Id.

Current approaches to administer a drug that doesn t cross the BBB into the brain include by craniotomy a process by which a hole is drilled in the head and the drug administered by either intracerebroventricular ICV or intracerebral IC injection. With IC administration the drug remains at the site of deposit at the tip of the needle. With ICV administration the drug distributes only as far as the ependymal surface of the ipsilateral ventricle and does not penetrate significantly into the brain parenchyma. Therefore the IVC and IC administration methods reach less than 1 of the brain volume and there are few diseases of the brain that can be treated by such limited penetration. Id.

In contrast a transvascular route of drug delivery could treat virtually 100 of the neurons of the brain. Because every neuron is perfused by its own blood vessel a drug administered tranvascularly can reach every neuron of the brain after crossing the BBB. However because there is no drug targeting system that will allow drugs to cross the BBB the transvascular route of administration is unavailable to the vast majority of drug candidates.

In spite of the fact that most drugs and other molecules cannot cross the BBB certain bacterial and fungal viral pathogens are known to cross the BBB to cause infection. Nassif et al. Trends Microbiol. 10 227 232 2002 Such bacterial pathogens could be either extracellular such as and K 1 or intracellular such as or . While the intracellular pathogens mostly invade the brain meninges by hiding inside infected leukocytes the extracellular pathogens enter the central nervous system by first disseminating in the blood stream and then directly interacting with the luminal side of the cerebral endothelia thereby disrupting the tight junctions of the brain microvascular endothelial cells. Nassif et al. id. Drevets Leenen Microbes Infect. 2 1609 1618 2000 Kim Subcell. Biochem. 33 47 59 2000 This interaction allows the pathogen to invade the brain meninges causing meningitis. Using in vitro monolayer and bilayer models for crossing the BBB as well as isolating bacterial mutants incapable of passage through such model mono or bi layers a variety of bacterial proteins have been implicated in overall invasion and crossing of the BBB. Huang Jong Cell. Microbiol. 3 277 287 2001 For example K 1 genes such as ibeA ibeB aslA yijP and ompA or genes encoding proteins such as type IV pili Opc Opa etc and viral proteins such as HIV surface protein gp120 have all been suggested to allow effective invasion and crossing of the BBB to cause infection. In the case of extracellular bacterial pathogens such proteins are believed to allow both adherence and subsequent breaching of the BBB for invasion of the meninges. Nassif et al. id Huang Jong id. No single bacterial surface protein has been demonstrated to facilitate disruption of the tight junctions to allow crossing of the BBB.

An azurin like gene exists in many gonococci and meningococci such as and . Gotschlich Seiff FEMS Microbiol. Lett. 43 253 255 1987 Kawula et al. Mol. Microbiol. 1 179 185 1987 Azurin is produced by a number of pathogenic bacteria and there is significant sequence homology among such genes. Yamada et al. Cell. Microbiol. 7 1418 1431 2005 A protein epitope termed H.8 is conserved among pathogenic species and is detected by the binding of a monoclonal antibody designated H.8. Two distinct gonococcal genes laz and lip encode proteins that cross react with the H.8 monoclonal antibody. Hayashi Wu J. Bioenerg. Biomembr. 22 451 471 1990 

Many pathogens have azurin like proteins but is unique in having the H.8 region attached to it. Laz and Lip are gonococcal outer surface proteins that contain a signal peptide lipoprotein consensus sequence that is recognized by the bacterial enzyme signal peptidase II which processes the sequence to result in the N terminal acylation of a cysteine residue with fatty acid and glycerol. Hayashi Wu id. Yamada et al. Cell. Microbiol. 7 1418 1431 2005 . The Lip lipoprotein about 6.3 kDa consists almost entirely of pentapeptide repeats of the motif Ala Ala Glu Ala Pro AAEAP SEQ ID NO 25 while the Laz lipoprotein about 17 kDa includes a 39 amino acid region at the N terminus containing imperfect AAEAP SEQ ID NO 25 repeats. Gotschlich Seiff id. Kawula et al. id. Woods et al. Mol. Microbiol. 3 43 48 1989 . Beyond this 39 amino acid N terminal region in Laz is a 127 amino acid region that is highly homologous to azurin. Cannon Clin. Microbiol. Rev. 2 S1 S4 1989 Laz is involved in defense against oxidative stress and copper toxicity and increases survival in an ex vivo primary human ectocervical epithelial assay. Wu et al. Infect. Immun. 73 8444 8448 2005 

A third outer membrane protein Pan 1 also has the AAEAP SEQ ID NO 25 pentapeptide repeat motif. Hoehn and Clark Infection and Immunity 60 4704 4708 1992 The size of Lip varies in different strains. In strain FA1090 Lip is 71 amino acids in length with 13 repeats of AAEAP SEQ ID NO 25 and six amino acids not a part of the repeats. In strain R10 Lip is 76 amino acids in length with 14 AAEAP SEQ ID NO 25 repeats. Cannon id. Purified Lip peptide is a potent inflammatory mediator capable of inducing the release of the chemokine interleukin 8 IL 8 and the cytokine IL 6 by immortalized human endocervical epithelial cells and the production of IL 8 and the activation of the transcription factor NF kB by human embryonic kidney 293 cells transfected with toll like receptor 2. Fisette et al. J. Biol. Chem. 278 46252 46260 2003 

In light of the large number of patients world wide with serious disorders of the brain and spinal cord what is needed is a transport system that can take hydrophilic molecules and large molecules across the BBB. Preferably this delivery system would have a high degree of specificity to allow drugs to be targeted to the brain without making a generally leaky BBB. Further a successful delivery system would be generally benign and would allow repeated use of the system on the patient without undesirable side effects. In some cases a successful delivery system would deliver a drug to all areas of the brain equally. In other cases the delivery system would deliver drugs specifically to brain cancer cells.

The invention provides transit peptides derived from outer membrane proteins that can facilitate the transport of attached or associated cargo compounds into brain cancer cells and or across the blood brain barrier. Also provided are complexes of the transit peptide and its cargo compound as well methods of use of both the complexes and the transit peptides to diagnose and treat brain cancer as well as diagnose and treat other conditions related to the brain. Finally the invention provides kits comprising the transit peptides and or complexes and or nucleic acids encoding the same.

One aspect of the invention is isolated transit peptides which are a variant derivative or structural equivalent of Laz Lip or Pan 1 from and which facilitate the entry of a linked molecule into a mammalian brain cancer cell or across the blood brain barrier. The H.8 region of Laz SEQ ID NO 24 may have at least 90 amino acid identity to these transit peptides. In some embodiments the transit peptide is SEQ ID NO 24. In other embodiments the transit peptides may be modified to extend or optimize the half life of the peptide in the bloodstream.

Another aspect of the invention are transit peptides which comprises a region of at least 4 imperfect or perfect repeats of Ala Ala Glu Ala Pro SEQ ID NO 25 and which region has at least about 50 AAEAP SEQ ID NO 25 pentapeptide repeats per total length. In some embodiments the region of imperfect or perfect repeats is at least about 90 identical to a peptide comprising an equal number of repeats of Ala Ala Glu Ala Pro SEQ ID NO 25 . In some embodiments these transit peptides are synthetic. In other embodiments these transit peptides may be modified to extend or optimize the half life of the peptide in the bloodstream.

Another aspect of the invention are complexes comprising at least one cargo compound linked to a transit peptides comprising a region consisting of at least 4 imperfect or perfect repeats of Ala Ala Glu Ala Pro SEQ ID NO 25 where this region does not comprise less than about 50 of the peptide.

Another aspect of the invention are complexes comprising at least one cargo compound linked to a variant derivative or structural equivalent of Laz Lip or Pan 1 from and which facilitate the entry of a linked molecule into a mammalian brain cancer cell or across the blood brain barrier. In some embodiments the cargo compound is a cupredoxin such as azurin plastocyanin rusticyanin pseudoazurin auracyanin and azurin like protein and specifically azurin from . In other embodiments the complex is modified to extend or optimize the half life of the peptide in the bloodstream. This complex may additionally comprises a cupredoxin derived transport peptide.

The cargo compound of this complex may be a protein lipoprotein polysaccharide nucleic acid dye microparticle nanoparticle toxin and drug. In some embodiments the cargo compound is a protein and the complex is a fusion protein. In other embodiments the cargo compound is a toxin. The cargo compound may be a therapeutic agent for the treatment of depression affective disorders chronic pain epilepsy Alzheimer disease stroke neuroprotection brain and spinal cord injury brain cancer HIV infection of the brain various ataxia producing disorders amyotrophic lateral sclerosis ALS Huntington disease childhood inborn genetic errors affecting the brain Parkinson s disease and or multiple sclerosis. The cargo compound may be a detectable substance such as one detectable by fluorimetry microscopy X ray CT MRI and or ultrasound.

In some embodiments the complex is in a pharmaceutically suitable carrier. The pharmaceutically suitable carrier may be for intravenous administration. In other embodiments the pharmaceutically acceptable carrier is appropriate for intracerebroventricular or intracerebral injection.

Another aspect of the invention is a method comprising contacting a cell or cells with a complex comprising at least one cargo compound linked to a variant derivative or structural equivalent of Laz Lip or Pan 1 from and which facilitates the entry of a linked molecule into a mammalian brain cancer cell or across the blood brain barrier. The cell may be from a tumor of the central nervous system specifically astrocytoma glioblastoma meningioma oligodentroglioma oligoastrocytoma glioma ependymoma spinal cord tumor ganglioglioma neurocytoma or medulloblastoma.

Another aspect of the invention is a method of treating a patient with cancer wherein the complex of the invention is administered to a patient in a therapeutically effective amount. In some embodiments the complex is administered intravenously topically subcutaneously intramuscularly or into cell or tumor. In other embodiments the complex is co administered with another cancer treatment.

Another aspect of the invention is a method for imaging cancer in a patient comprising administering a complex with a detectable cargo compound to a patient and detecting location of the cargo compound within the patient. In some cases the cargo compound is an X ray contrast agent which is detected by X ray CT. In other cases the cargo compound is a magnetic resonance imaging contrast agent which is detected by MRI. In other cases the cargo compound is an ultrasound contrast agent which is detected by ultrasound imaging.

Another aspect of the invention is a method for diagnosing cancer comprising contacting a cell is contacted with a complex of the invention with a detectable cargo compound and detecting the cargo compound.

Another aspect of the invention is a kit comprising a reagent with an isolated transit peptide which is a variant derivative or structural equivalent of Laz Lip or Pan 1 from and which facilitates the entry of a linked molecule into a mammalian brain cancer cell or across the blood brain barrier. In some embodiments the kit further comprises a reagent comprising a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. In other embodiments the kit comprises a vehicle for administration of the reagent.

Another aspect of the invention are nucleic acid molecules. In some embodiments the nucleic acids encode an isolated transit peptide which is a variant derivative or structural equivalent of Laz Lip or Pan 1 from and which facilitates the entry of a linked molecule into a mammalian brain cancer cell or across the blood brain barrier. In other embodiments the nucleic acids encode transit peptides comprising a region consisting of at least 4 imperfect or perfect repeats of Ala Ala Glu Ala Pro SEQ ID NO 25 where this region does not comprise less than about 50 of the peptide. In other embodiments the nucleic acids encode complexes comprising a fusion protein comprising at least one protein cargo compound linked to a transit peptide.

Another aspect of the invention is a method for treating or diagnosing a patient with a condition related to the brain comprising co administering to said patient the transit peptide of the invention and at least one cargo compound. In other embodiments a cupredoxin derived transport peptide is coadministered with the transit peptide and or the cargo compound.

SEQ ID NO 16 is the forward primer to PCR amplify the signal peptide and H.8 encoding region of laz from pUC18 laz.

SEQ ID NO 17 is the reverse primer to PCR amplify the signal peptide and H.8 encoding region of laz from pUC18 laz.

As used herein the term cell includes both the singular or the plural of the term unless specifically described as a single cell. 

As used herein the terms polypeptide peptide and protein are used interchangeably to refer to a polymer of amino acid residues. The terms apply to amino acid polymers in which one or more amino acid residue is an artificial chemical analogue of a corresponding naturally occurring amino acid. The terms also apply to naturally occurring amino acid polymers. The terms polypeptide peptide and protein are also inclusive of modifications including but not limited to glycosylation lipid attachment sulfation gamma carboxylation of glutamic acid residues hydroxylation and ADP ribosylation. It will be appreciated that polypeptides are not always entirely linear. For instance polypeptides may be branched as a result of ubiquitination and they may be circular with or without branching generally as a result of post translation events including natural processing event and events brought about by human manipulation which do not occur naturally. Circular branched and branched circular polypeptides may be synthesized by non translation natural process and by entirely synthetic methods as well. A synthetic peptide is one made without the aid of cellular components. Synthetic methods to make peptides are well known in the art and are commercial available. Further this invention contemplates the use of both the methionine containing and the methionine less amino terminal variants of the protein of the invention.

As used herein the term condition includes anatomic and physiological deviations from the normal that constitute an impairment of the normal state of the living animal or one of its parts that interrupts or modifies the performance of the bodily functions.

As used herein the term inhibit cell growth means the slowing or ceasing of cell division and or cell expansion. This term also includes the inhibition of cell development or increases in cell death.

As used herein the term suffering from includes presently exhibiting the symptoms of a condition having a condition even without observable symptoms in recovery from a condition and recovered from a condition.

A used herein the term treatment includes preventing lowering stopping or reversing the progression or severity of the condition or symptoms associated with a condition being treated. As such the term treatment includes medical therapeutic and or prophylactic administration as appropriate.

A therapeutically effective amount is an amount effective to prevent lower stop or reverse the development of or to partially or totally alleviate the existing symptoms of a particular condition for which the subject being treated. Determination of a therapeutically effective amount is well within the capability of those skilled in the art.

The term substantially pure as used herein when used to modify a protein or other cellular product of the invention refers to for example a protein isolated from the growth medium or cellular contents in a form substantially free of or unadulterated by other proteins and or active inhibitory compounds. The term substantially pure refers to a factor in an amount of at least about 75 by dry weight of isolated fraction or at least 75 substantially pure. More specifically the term substantially pure refers to a compound of at least about 85 by dry weight active compound or at least 85 substantially pure. Most specifically the term substantially pure refers to a compound of at least about 95 by dry weight active compound or at least 95 substantially pure. The term substantially pure may also be used to modify a synthetically make protein or compound of the invention where for example the synthetic protein is isolated from the reagents and by products of the synthesis reaction s .

The term pharmaceutical grade as used herein when referring to a peptide or compound of the invention is a peptide or compound that is isolated substantially or essentially from components which normally accompany the material as it is found in its natural state including synthesis reagents and by products and substantially or essentially isolated from components that would impair its use as a pharmaceutical. For example a pharmaceutical grade peptide may be a isolated from any carcinogen. In some instances pharmaceutical grade my be modified by the intended method of administration such as intravenous pharmaceutical grade in order to specify a peptide or compound that is substantially or essentially isolated from any substance that would render the composition unsuitable for intravenous administration to a patient. For example an intravenous pharmaceutical grade peptide may be isolated from detergents such as SDS and anti bacterial agents such as azide.

The phrases isolated purified or biologically pure refer to material which is substantially or essentially free from components which normally accompany the material as it is found in its native state. Thus isolated peptides in accordance with the invention preferably do not contain materials normally associated with the peptides in their in situ environment. An isolated region refers to a region that does not include the whole sequence of the polypeptide from which the region was derived. An isolated nucleic acid protein or respective fragment thereof has been substantially removed from its in vivo environment so that it may be manipulated by the skilled artisan such as but not limited to nucleotide sequencing restriction digestion site directed mutagenesis and subcloning into expression vectors for a nucleic acid fragment as well as obtaining the protein or protein fragment in substantially pure quantities.

The term variant as used herein with respect to a peptide refers to amino acid sequence variants which may have amino acids replaced deleted or inserted as compared to the wild type polypeptide. Variants may be truncations of the wild type peptide. An addition is the removal of one or more amino acids from within the wildtype protein while a truncation is the removal of one or more amino acids from one or more ends of the wildtype protein. Thus a variant peptide may be made by manipulation of genes encoding the polypeptide. A variant may be made by altering the basic composition or characteristics of the polypeptide but not at least some of its fundamental activities. For example a variant of the transit peptide may be a mutated transit peptide that retains its ability to cross the BBB and or enter brain cancer cells. In some cases a variant peptide is synthesized with non natural amino acids such as 3 5 dinitrobenzoyl Lys residues. Ghadiri Fernholz J. Am. Chem. Soc. 112 9633 9635 1990 . In some embodiments the variant has not more than 20 19 18 17 or 16 amino acids replaced deleted or inserted compared to wild type peptide. In some embodiments the variant has not more than 15 14 13 12 or 11 amino acids replaced deleted or inserted compared to wild type peptide. In some embodiments the variant has not more than 10 9 8 or 7 amino acids replaced deleted or inserted compared to wild type peptide. In some embodiments the variant has not more than 6 amino acids replaced deleted or inserted compared to wild type peptide. In some embodiments the variant has not more than 5 or 4 amino acids replaced deleted or inserted compared to wild type peptide. In some embodiments the variant has not more than 3 2 or 1 amino acids replaced deleted or inserted compared to wild type peptide.

The term amino acid as used herein means an amino acid moiety that comprises any naturally occurring or non naturally occurring or synthetic amino acid residue i.e. any moiety comprising at least one carboxyl and at least one amino residue directly linked by one two three or more carbon atoms typically one a carbon atom.

The term derivative as used herein with respect to a peptide refers to a peptide that is derived from the subject peptide. A derivation includes chemical modifications of the peptide such that the peptide still retains some of its fundamental activities. For example a derivative of a transit peptide can be a chemically modified transit peptide that retains its ability to cross the BBB and or enter brain cancer cells. Chemical modifications of interest include but are not limited to amidation acetylation sulfation polyethylene glycol PEG modification phosphorylation or glycosylation of the peptide. In addition a derivative peptide maybe a fusion of a polypeptide or fragment thereof to a chemical compound such as but not limited to another peptide drug molecule or other therapeutic or pharmaceutical agent or a detectable probe.

The term percent amino acid sequence identity is defined as the percentage of amino acid residues in a polypeptide that are identical with amino acid residues in a candidate sequence when the two sequences are aligned. To determine amino acid identity sequences are aligned and if necessary gaps are introduced to achieve the maximum sequence identity conservative substitutions are not considered as part of the sequence identity. Amino acid sequence alignment procedures to determine percent identity are well known to those of skill in the art. Often publicly available computer software such as BLAST BLAST2 ALIGN2 or Megalign DNASTAR software is used to align peptide sequences. In a specific embodiment Blastp available from the National Center for Biotechnology Information Bethesda Md. is used using the default parameters of long complexity filter expect 10 word size 3 existence 11 and extension 1.

When amino acid sequences are aligned the amino acid sequence identity of a given amino acid sequence A to with or against a given amino acid sequence B which can alternatively be phrased as a given amino acid sequence A that has or comprises a certain amino acid sequence identity to with or against a given amino acid sequence B can be calculated as amino acid sequence identity X Y 100

X is the number of amino acid residues scored as identical matches by the sequence alignment program s or algorithm s alignment of A and B and

If the length of amino acid sequence A is not equal to the length of amino acid sequence B the amino acid sequence identity of A to B will not equal the amino acid sequence identity of B to A. When comparing longer sequences to shorter sequences the shorter sequence will be the B sequence. For example when comparing truncated peptides to the corresponding wild type polypeptide the truncated peptide will be the B sequence.

The present invention relates to methods and materials for delivering a cargo compound across the blood brain barrier BBB and or into brain cancer cells and materials and methods for the treatment of cancer of the mammalian brain as well as other conditions of the brain and central nervous system. As disclosed herein it is now know that peptide regions composed of repeats of the motif AAEAP SEQ ID NO 25 will allow associated or fused peptides and other cargo compound to be transported across the blood brain barrier and or into mammalian brain cancer cells. More specifically the H.8 region of the protein Laz can be used to transport associated or fused proteins and other cargo compounds across the BBB and or into brain cancer cells. In addition it is contemplated that peptides similar to the H.8 region in the use of the AAEAP SEQ ID NO 25 pentapeptide repeats can be used to transport proteins and other cargo compound across the BBB and or into brain cancer cells such as part or all of the Lip protein and part or all of the Pan 1 protein both from . Cargo compounds delivered by the present invention include but are not limited to proteins lipoproteins polysaccharides nucleic acids including anti sense nucleic acids dyes fluorescent and radioactive tags microparticles or nanoparticles toxins inorganic and organic molecules small molecules and drugs. In some embodiments the drugs and or toxins kill tumor cells. In other embodiments the cargo compounds treat various conditions of the brain.

It is known that many cupredoxin proteins such as azurin have the ability to specifically enter and kill many types of mammalian cancer cells. Yamada et al. Cell. Biol. 7 1418 1431 2005 Hiraoka et al. PNAS 101 6427 6432 2004 Hiraoka et al. Biochem. Biophys. Res. Comm. 338 1284 1290 2005 It is also known that azurin is not cytotoxic towards brain cancer cells such as glioblastoma cells. See Example 2. Surprisingly it is now known that the Laz protein an azurin like protein from and other species is able to specifically enter and kill brain cancer cells such as glioblastoma cells as well as other tumors. See Examples 2 and 7. Furthermore it is now known that the H.8 region of the Laz protein can confer upon azurin when fused to either its N terminal or C terminal the ability to enter and kill glioblastoma cells. See Examples 2 and 3.

Also surprisingly it is now known that the H.8 region does not have to be physically attached to a co administered protein such as azurin to confer upon that protein the ability to enter glioblastmona cells. See Example 5. H.8 and H.8 fused to the N terminus of GST both increased the entry of physically unattached azurin into glioblastoma cells as compared to azurin alone however H.8 fused to the C terminus of GST was ineffective. Further the H.8 and H.8 fused to the N terminal of GST when coadministered with azurin both enhanced the cytotoxicity of azurin towards glioblastoma cells. See Example 5.

Surprisingly the H.8 domain of Laz is now known to confer upon proteins to which it is fused the ability to cross the blood brain barrier in living mice and localize to the brain. See Example 6.

Finally the H.8 region is now known to be responsible for the surface display of fused proteins in . See Example 7. While GST and GST with H.8 fused to the C terminus both accumulate in the periplasmic space of the expressing them GST with H.8 fused on the N terminus is transported to the surface of the cells. While not intending to limit the invention to any mechanism of action ability of the H.8 region to cause the transport of a fused protein to the surface of the bacterial cell may be related to ability of the H.8 region to allow fused proteins to cross the BBB. Since meningococci such as cross the BBB to invade brain meninges Nassif et al. id. Huang Jong id. it is likely such bacteria use surface exposed cell components to disrupt the BBB. Type IV pili of are implicated in the formation of brain microvilli like membrane protrusions and the retraction of such pili is known to play a central role in the interactions between and human cells. Pujol et al. PNAS 96 4017 4022 1999 Merz et al. Nature 407 98 102 2002 However type IV pili are known to retract following the pili mediated contact formation with other cells and additional unknown surface components of are thought to be responsible for the crossing of the BBB. Nassif et al. id. It is therefore possible that the surface displayed H.8 region is directly involved with enabling to cross the BBB and interact with human brain cancer cells.

The Laz H.8 region is 39 amino acid region at the N terminus of Laz which contains imperfect AAEAP SEQ ID NO 25 pentapeptide repeats. It is contemplated that this AAEAP SEQ ID NO 25 repeat unit can be used to design peptides that will transport cargos across the BBB and or into brain cancer cells. Further it is contemplated that the amino acid sequence of other outer membrane proteins from and meningitis with AAEAP SEQ ID NO 25 repeats can be used to design peptides that will transport cargo across the BBB and or into brain cancer cells. Other outer membrane proteins of interest include but are not limited to Lip and Pan 1. Trees et al. J. Clin. Microbiol. 38 2914 2916 2000 Hoehn and Clark Infection and Immunity 60 4704 4708 1992 

The present invention relates to methods and materials for delivering a cargo compound across the blood brain barrier into the brain and or into brain cancer cells. Delivery of the cargo compound according to this invention is accomplished by the use of a suitable transit peptide. In one embodiment of the invention the cargo compound is linked to a or AAEAP transit peptide of the invention. In another embodiment the cargo compound is co administered with a or AAEAP transit peptide of the invention. In another embodiment the cargo compound is linked to a cupredoxin derived transport peptide and a or AAEAP transit peptide of the invention.

In one embodiment a cargo compound is delivered to inhibit the cell growth in a cancer cell such as a brain cancer cell. Such a cancer cell can be from for example an astrocytoma glioblastoma meningioma oligodentroglioma oligoastrocytoma glioma ependymoma spinal cord tumor ganglioglioma neurocytoma and medulloblastoma. For example the cargo compound may be a cell cycle control protein such as p53 a cyclin dependent kinase inhibitor such as p16 p21 or p27 a suicide protein such as thymidine kinase or nitroreductase a cytokine or other immunomodulatory protein such as interleukin 1 interleukin 2 or granulocyte macrophage colony stimulating factor GM CSF or a toxin such as exotoxin A among others. In some embodiments a biologically active fragment of one of the above classes of compounds is delivered. In another embodiment the cargo compound is delivered in order to generate an image of the target tissue. For example the target tissue may be a cancer and the cargo compound can be one commonly used to generate an image for detection by X ray computed tomography CT Magnetic Resonance Imaging MRI and ultrasound. In these embodiments the cargo compound may a gamma ray or positron emitting radioisotope a magnetic resonance imaging contrast agent an X ray contrast agent and or an ultrasound contrast agent. In other embodiments the cargo compound may be delivered to treat a condition related to the brain.

The invention provides for a transit peptide that allows for the transport of linked or associated cargo into mammalian brain cancer cells but not non cancerous cells and or across the BBB. It has been discovered that outer membrane proteins such as Laz comprise a protein transit domain the H.8 domain which facilitates the entry of linked cargo into mammalian brain cancer cells and or across the BBB. The invention provides transit peptides derived from outer membrane proteins. The invention further provides natural or synthetic transit domains comprising repeats of the AAEAP SEQ ID NO 25 pentapeptide that may be used to transport linked or associated cargo into mammalian brain cancer cells and or across the BBB.

The term transit peptide refers to all or a fragment of a outer membrane protein that includes the amino sequence that is required for the entry of a cargo into a brain cancer cell and or across the BBB. Suitable outer membrane proteins include but are not limited to Laz Lip or Pan 1 from . Of particular interest is Laz from and . Determination of which outer membrane proteins that include an amino sequence that is required for the entry of a cargo into a brain cancer cell and or across the BBB may be preformed by any method that identifies those peptides required for entry into a brain cancer cell or passage across the BBB. In one such method all or a fragment of a outer membrane protein is linked to a marker substance and a test performed to determine whether the all or a fragment of a outer membrane protein enters a brain cancer cell and or crosses the BBB. Methods that may be used to identify suitable outer membrane proteins or fragments thereof are found in Examples 4 and 7.

Suitable outer membrane proteins which may be used in the invention include outer membrane proteins of a species that are recognized by the H.8 antibody and or are comprised of several perfect or imperfect repeats of the AAEAP SEQ ID NO 25 motif. In some embodiments transit peptides are recognized by the H.8 antibody. The methodology and parameters for determining whether a protein or peptide is recognized by the H.8 antibody are described in Cannon et al. Infection and Immunity 43 994 999 1984 .

The invention also provides AAEAP transit peptides which are peptides are composed of multiple perfect or imperfect repeats of the AAEAP SEQ ID NO 25 motif that may transport linked or associated cargo compounds into mammalian brain cancer cells and or across the BBB. An imperfect repeat as used herein is defined as a repeat of the AAEAP SEQ ID NO 25 pentapeptide where at least one of the five amino acids is not part of the AAEAP SEQ ID NO 25 motif. In other embodiments the imperfect repeat may have not more than 1 2 3 or 4 amino acids that are not part of the AAEAP SEQ ID NO 25 pentapeptide. In some embodiments the transit peptide is amino acids 1 to 39 of the Laz protein SEQ ID NO 24 . In some embodiments the transit peptide is at least about 20 amino acids in length at least about 40 amino acids in length at least about 60 amino acids in length or at least about 80 amino acids in length. In other embodiments the transit peptide is not more than about 40 amino acids in length not more than about 100 amino acids in length not more than about 200 amino acids in length or not more than about 400 amino acids in length. In some embodiments the transit peptide has at least about 90 amino acid sequence identity at least about 95 amino acid sequence identity or at least about 99 amino acid sequence identity to a outer membrane protein such as SEQ ID NO 22.

The term AAEAP SEQ ID NO 25 transit peptide refers to a peptide that is comprised a region of perfect and or imperfect AAEAP SEQ ID NO 25 pentapeptide repeats. The AAEAP SEQ ID NO 25 transit peptide may be a synthesized by standard methods or may reproduced by cell based expression systems. In some embodiments the AAEAP SEQ ID NO 25 transit peptide is comprised of at least 2 AAEAP SEQ ID NO 25 pentapeptide repeats at least 4 AAEAP SEQ ID NO 25 pentapeptide repeats at least 6 AAEAP SEQ ID NO 25 pentapeptide repeats at least 8 AAEAP SEQ ID NO 25 pentapeptide repeats at least 10 AAEAP SEQ ID NO 25 pentapeptide repeats at least 15 AAEAP SEQ ID NO 25 pentapeptide repeats or at least 20 AAEAP SEQ ID NO 25 pentapeptide repeats. In some embodiments the AAEAP SEQ ID NO 25 transit peptide is comprised of not more than 10 AAEAP SEQ ID NO 25 pentapeptide repeats not more than 20 AAEAP SEQ ID NO 25 pentapeptide repeats not more than 30 AAEAP SEQ ID NO 25 pentapeptide repeats or not more than 40 AAEAP SEQ ID NO 25 pentapeptide repeats. In some embodiments the AAEAP SEQ ID NO 25 transit peptide is comprised of only perfect AAEAP SEQ ID NO 25 pentapeptide repeats only imperfect AAEAP SEQ ID NO 25 pentapeptide repeats or a mixture of perfect and imperfect AAEAP SEQ ID NO 25 pentapeptide repeats.

In some embodiments the AAEAP SEQ ID NO 25 transit peptide consists of only AAEAP SEQ ID NO 25 pentapeptide repeats. In other embodiments the AAEAP SEQ ID NO 25 transit peptide consists of at least about 95 AAEAP SEQ ID NO 25 pentapeptide repeats per total length at least about 90 AAEAP SEQ ID NO 25 pentapeptide repeats per total length at least about 80 AAEAP SEQ ID NO 25 pentapeptide repeats per total length at least about 50 AAEAP SEQ ID NO 25 pentapeptide repeats per total length. In some embodiments the region of repeats is at least about 70 identical at least about 80 identical at least about 90 identical or at least about 95 identical to a peptide comprising an equal number of repeats of Ala Ala Glu Ala Pro SEQ ID NO 25 .

In some embodiments the transit peptide and or AAEAP SEQ ID NO 25 transit peptide can be used to facilitate the transport linked cargo selectively into brain cancer cells and or across the BBB. In other embodiments the transit peptide and or AAEAP SEQ ID NO 25 transit peptide can be used to transport co administered cargo into brain cancer cells and or across the BBB.

In other embodiments of the present invention a transit peptide or AAEAP SEQ ID NO 25 transit peptide is chemically modified or genetically altered to produce variants and derivatives that retain the ability to transport a cargo compound into a brain cancer cell or across the BBB.

Variants of a transit peptide or AAEAP SEQ ID NO 25 transit peptide may be synthesized by standard techniques. Derivatives are amino acid sequences formed from native amino acids either directly or by modification or partial substitution. Variants may be analogs which are amino acid sequences that have a structure similar but not identical to the native compound but differ from it in respect to certain components or side chains. Analogs may be synthesized or from a different evolutionary origin. Variants may be full length or other than full length if the derivative or analog contains a modified amino acid.

The invention provides for amino acid sequence variants of the transit peptide which have amino acids replaced deleted or inserted as compared to the wild type polypeptide. Variants of the invention may be truncations of the transit peptide. As used herein a truncation of a polypeptide is the peptide that results from the removal of at least one amino acid residue from at least one end of the polypeptide sequence. In some embodiments the truncation peptide results from at least the removal of at least one amino acid residue at least five amino acid residues at least 10 amino acid residues at least 50 amino acid residues at least 100 amino acid residues at least 120 amino acid residues or at least 150 amino acid residues from either or both ends of the polypeptide sequence. In some embodiments the composition comprises a peptide that consists of a region of the transit peptide that is less that the full length the transit peptide. In some embodiments the composition comprises a peptide that consists of more than about 10 residues more than about 15 residues or more than about 20 residues of a truncated transit peptide. In some embodiments the composition comprises a peptide that consists of not more than about 100 residues not more than about 70 residues not more than about 50 residues not more than about 40 residues or not more than about 30 residues of a truncated transit peptide.

Variants of a transit peptide or AAEAP SEQ ID NO 25 transit peptide include but are not limited to molecules comprising regions that are substantially homologous to the transit peptide SEQ ID NO 24 or AAEAP SEQ ID NO 25 transit peptide by at least about 65 70 75 85 90 95 98 or 99 identity over an amino acid sequence of identical size or when compared to an aligned sequence in which the alignment is performed by a homology algorithm. The term percent amino acid sequence identity between a transit peptide or AAEAP SEQ ID NO 25 transit peptide and a candidate sequence is defined as the percentage of amino acid residues in a transit peptide or AAEAP SEQ ID NO 25 transit peptide that are identical to amino acid residues in a candidate sequence when the two sequences are aligned.

The variants also include peptides made with synthetic amino acids not naturally occurring. For example non naturally occurring amino acids may be integrated into the variant peptide to extend or optimize the half life of the composition in the bloodstream. Such variants include but are not limited to D L peptides diastereomer Futaki et al. J. Biol. Chem. 276 8 5836 40 2001 Papo et al. Cancer Res. 64 16 5779 86 2004 Miller et al Biochem. Pharmacol. 36 1 169 76 1987 peptides containing unusual amino acids Lee et al. J. Pept. Res. 63 2 69 84 2004 and olefin containing non natural amino acid followed by hydrocarbon stapling Schafineister et al. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 122 5891 5892 2000 Walenski et al. Science 305 1466 1470 2004 . and peptides comprising 3 5 dinitrobenzoyl Lys residues.

In other embodiments the peptide of the invention is a derivative of a transit peptide or AAEAP SEQ ID NO 25 transit peptide. The derivatives of the transit peptides are chemical modifications of the peptide such that the peptide still retains some of its fundamental activities. For example a derivative of a transit peptide can be a chemically modified transit peptide that retains its ability to cross the BBB and or enter brain cancer cells. Derivations that result in altered transit peptide or AAEAP transit peptide activity are contemplated as part of the invention as long as such losses in activity are not appreciable. As used herein appreciable loss is more than about 50 activity as compared to the unaltered peptide. Chemical modifications of interest include but are not limited to amidation acetylation sulfation polyethylene glycol PEG modification phosphorylation and glycosylation of the peptide. In addition a derivative peptide maybe a fusion of a transit peptide or variant derivative or structural equivalent thereof to a chemical compound such as but not limited to another peptide drug molecule or other therapeutic or pharmaceutical agent or a detectable probe.

Derivatives of interest include chemical modifications by which the half life in the bloodstream of the peptides and compositions of the invention can be extended or optimized such as by several methods well known to those in the art including but not limited to circularized peptides Monk et al. BioDrugs 19 4 261 78 2005 DeFreest et al. J. Pept. Res. 63 5 409 19 2004 N and C terminal modifications Labrie et al. Clin. Invest. Med. 13 5 275 8 1990 and olefin containing non natural amino acid followed by hydrocarbon stapling Schafineister et al. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 122 5891 5892 2000 Walenski et al. Science 305 1466 1470 2004 .

It is contemplated that the transit peptides of the invention may be a variant derivative and or structural equivalent of a transit peptide or AAEAP SEQ ID NO 25 transit peptide. For example the peptides may be a truncation of transit peptide that has been PEGylated thus making it both a variant and a derivative. In one embodiment the peptides of the invention are synthesized with disubstituted non natural amino acids containing olefin bearing tethers followed by an all hydrocarbon staple by ruthenium catalyzed olefin metathesis. Scharmeister et al. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 122 5891 5892 2000 Walensky et al. Science 305 1466 1470 2004 . Additionally peptides that are structural equivalents of a transit peptide may be fused to other peptides thus making a peptide that is both a structural equivalent and a derivative. These examples are merely to illustrate and not to limit the invention.

Changes can be introduced into a transit peptide or AAEAP SEQ ID NO 25 transit peptide that incur alterations in the amino acid sequences of the a transit peptide or AAEAP SEQ ID NO 25 transit peptide that do not nullify the ability of the a transit peptide or AAEAP SEQ ID NO 25 transit peptide to transport a cargo compound into a brain cancer cell and or across the BBB. A non essential amino acid residue is a residue that can be altered from the sequence of the a transit peptide or AAEAP SEQ ID NO 25 transit peptide without nullifying its ability to transport a cargo compound into a cell and or across the BBB whereas an essential amino acid residue is required for such activity.

Amino acids for which conservative substitutions can be made are well known in the art. Useful conservative substitutions are shown in Table 1 Preferred substitutions. Conservative substitutions whereby an amino acid of one class is replaced with another amino acid of the same class fall within the scope of the invention so long as the substitution does not nullify the activity of the AAEAP transit peptide. Such exchanges that result in altered AAEAP transit peptide activity are contemplated as part of the invention so long as such a loss of activity is not appreciable. As used herein an appreciable loss is more than about 50 of the activity as compared to the unaltered peptide.

 Non conservative substitutions that affect 1 the structure of the polypeptide backbone such as a sheet or helical conformation 2 the charge 3 hydrophobicity or 4 the bulk of the side chain of the target site can modify the AAEAP transit peptide function. Residues are divided into groups based on common side chain properties as denoted in Table 2. Non conservative substitutions entail exchanging a member of one of these classes for another class.

Non conservative substitutions whereby an amino acid of one class is replaced with another amino acid of a different class fall within the scope of the invention so long as the substitution does not nullify the activity of the transit peptide or AAEAP SEQ ID NO 25 transit peptide. Such exchanges that result in altered transit peptide or AAEAP SEQ ID NO 25 transit peptide activity are contemplated as part of the invention so long as such losses in activity are not appreciable.

In other embodiments the invention contemplates structural equivalents of the transit peptides or AAEAP SEQ ID NO 25 transit peptides which have a significant structural similarity to gonnorhoeae Laz amino acid residues 1 to 39 SEQ ID NO 24 . Specifically significant structural homology between a structural equivalent of the transit peptide and gonnorhoeae Laz amino acid residues 1 to 39 SEQ ID NO 24 may be determined by using the VAST algorithm Gibrat et al. Curr Opin Struct Biol 6 377 385 1996 Madej et al. Proteins 23 356 3690 1995 . In specific embodiments the VAST p value from a structural comparison of a structural equivalent of a transit peptide or AAEAP SEQ ID NO 25 transit peptide and gonnorhoeae Laz amino acid residues 1 to 39 SEQ ID NO 24 is less than about 10 less than about 10 or less than about 10. In other embodiments significant structural homology between a structural equivalent of the transit peptide and Laz amino acid residues 1 to 39 SEQ ID NO 24 can be determined by using the DALI algorithm Holm Sander J. Mol. Biol. 233 123 138 1993 . In specific embodiments the DALI Z score for a pairwise structural comparison is at least about 3.5 at least about 7.0 or at least about 10.0.

Modifications to a transit peptide or AAEAP SEQ ID NO 25 transit peptide can be made using methods known in the art such as oligonucleotide mediated site directed mutagenesis alanine scanning and PCR mutagenesis. Site directed mutagenesis Carter Biochem J. 237 1 7 1986 Zoller and Smith Methods Enzymol. 154 329 50 1987 cassette mutagenesis restriction selection mutagenesis Wells et al. Gene 34 315 23 1985 or other known techniques can be performed on the cloned DNA to produce a AAEAP transit peptide variant encoding nucleic acid. In addition nucleotides encoding a transit peptide or AAEAP SEQ ID NO 25 transit peptide variants may be synthesized by methods that are well known in the art.

In another aspect of the invention provided are transit peptide cargo complexes where transit peptide or a AAEAP transit peptide are complexed with at least on cargo compound. The transit peptides of these complexes may be either a transit peptide a AAEAP SEQ ID NO 25 transit peptide or variants derivatives or structural equivalent of either. Cargo compounds delivered by the present invention include but are not limited to proteins lipoproteins polysaccharides nucleic acids including anti sense nucleic acids dyes microparticles or nanoparticles toxins organic and inorganic molecules small molecules and drugs. Such transit peptide cargo complexes may be used to deliver drugs into the brain and or brain cancer cells and cancer cells in general for therapeutic purposes to deliver imaging compounds to brain cancer cells and cancer cells in general for diagnostic purposes and any other purpose that requires the deliver of a specific compound into the brain and or into brain cancer cells. Cargo compounds may be attached to the C terminus or N terminus of the transit peptide.

In some embodiments the transit peptide or the AAEAP transit peptide is complexed with a cupredoxin derived transport peptide. Cupredoxin derived transport peptides are provided in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 244 105 filed Oct. 6 2005 which is hereby expressly incorporated by reference. In some embodiments the cupredoxin derived transport peptide is comprises the 50 77 amino acid region of azurin of is a variant derivative or structural equivalent thereof.

As used herein the terms complexed complex or linked refer to the physical association between the components being complexed. In some cases the physical association may not be direct but may be mediated by a linking group or another component. Components may be proteins other organic molecules or inorganic molecules among others. The physical association between the components may be by covalent bonds hydrophobic bonds and or van der waals forces or any other means that holds the components in physical association.

In various embodiments of the present invention the cargo compound may comprise a cupredoxin which is cytotoxic to cancer cells such as azurin from SEQ ID NO 24 wt azurin plastocyanin from the cyanobacterium rusticyanin from pseudoazurin from azurins from auracyanin A and B from or among other azurin and azurin like proteins. In other embodiments the cargo compound may be a cytochrome c such as cytochrome cfrom . In other embodiments the cargo compound may be a variant of any of the above that retains its cytotoxicity in cancer cells.

In one embodiment the cargo compound may be a detectable substance for example a fluorescent substance such as green fluorescent protein a luminescent substance an enzyme such as galactosidase or a radiolabelled or biotinylated protein is delivered to confer a detectable phenotype to a cell. Similarly microparticles or nanoparticles labeled with a detectable substance for example a fluorescent substance can be delivered. One example of suitable nanoparticles is found in U.S. Pat. No. 6 383 500 issued May 7 2002 which is hereby expressly incorporated by reference. Many such detectable substances are known to those skilled in the art.

In some embodiments the cargo compound may be a detectable substance that is suitable for X ray computed tomography magnetic resonance imaging ultrasound imaging or radionuclide scintigraphy. In these embodiments the cargo compound is administered to the patient for purposes of diagnosis. A contrast agent is administered as a cargo compound to enhance the image obtained by X ray CT MRI and ultrasound. In various embodiments the cargo compound is a gamma ray or positron emitting radioisotope a magnetic resonance imaging contract agent an X ray contrast agent and or an ultrasound contrast agent.

The administration of a radionuclide cargo compound that is targeted to brain tumor tissue via a AAEAP SEQ ID NO 25 transit peptide with or without a cupredoxin derived transport peptide can be used for radionuclide scintigraphy. In some embodiments a AAEAP SEQ ID NO 25 transit peptide may contain the radionucleotide with or without a cargo compound. U.S. Pat. Pub. No. 2006 0039861 provides peptide targeted multimeric contrast agents for use as radionuclide contrast agents. Commercially available cargo compounds suitable for X ray imaging include but are not limited to Visipaque iodixanol Omnipaque iohexyl and Imagopaque available from GE Healthcare Chalfont St. Giles United Kingdom .

The administration of a ultrasound contrast agent cargo compound that is targeted to brain tumor tissue via a AAEAP SEQ ID NO 25 transit peptide with or without a cupredoxin derived transport peptide can be used for ultrasound imaging. Ultrasound contrast agents suitable for use as cargo compounds include but are not limited to a microbubble of a biocompatible gas a liquid carrier and a surfactant microsphere further comprising an optional linking moiety L between the targeting moieties and the microbubble. Microbubbles of interest include but are not limited to those provided in Table 3. In this context the term liquid carrier means aqueous solution and the term surfactant means any amphiphilic material which produces a reduction in interfacial tension in a solution. A list of suitable surfactants for forming surfactant microspheres is disclosed in EP0727225A2 herein expressly incorporated by reference. The term surfactant microsphere includes nanospheres liposomes vesicles and the like. In some embodiments the ultrasound contrast agent is a liposome or dextran. The biocompatible gas may be air or a fluorocarbon such as a C Cperfluoroalkane which provides the difference in echogenicity and thus the contrast in ultrasound imaging. The gas may be encapsulated or contained in the microsphere to which is attached the AAEAP SEQ ID NO 25 transit peptide optionally via a linking group. The attachment can be covalent ionic or by van der Waals forces.

The administration of an X ray contrast agent cargo compound that is targeted to brain tumor tissue via a AAEAP SEQ ID NO 25 transit peptide with or without a cupredoxin derived transport peptide can be used for X ray computed tomography and other forms of X ray imaging. Current commercial X ray contrast agents suitable to be used as cargo compounds can be sorted into two categories 1 ionic contrast agents having an ionic carboxyl group and 2 non ionic contrast agents which do not contain any ionic groups. Examples of commercially available ionic contrast agents include Hypaque Diatrizoate and Hexabrix Ioxaglate while non ionic agents include Omnipaque Iohexyl Isovue Iopamidol Optiray Ioversol and Visipaque Iodixanol . Other X ray contrast agents suitable for use as cargo compounds include but are not limited to one or more X ray absorbing or heavy atoms of atomic number 20 or greater further comprising an optional linking moiety L between the AAEAP SEQ ID NO 25 transit peptide and the X ray absorbing atoms. The frequently used heavy atom in X ray contrast agents is iodine. X ray contrast agents comprised of metal chelates e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 5 417 959 and polychelates comprised of a plurality of metal ions e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 5 679 810 have been disclosed. Multinuclear cluster complexes have been disclosed as X ray contrast agents e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 5 804 161 PCT WO91 14460 and PCT WO 92 17215 . Other X ray contrast agents will be well know to those of skill in the art and can be used as well as cargo compounds in the present invention.

The administration of an MRI contrast agent cargo compound that is targeted to brain tumor tissue via a AAEAP SEQ ID NO 25 transit peptide with or without a cupredoxin derived transport peptide can be used for MRI imaging. MRI contrast agents suitable for use as cargo compounds include but are not limited to one or more paramagnetic metal ions further comprising an optional linking moiety L between the AAEAP SEQ ID NO 25 transit peptide and the paramagnetic metal ions. Metals ions of the metal chelates may be paramagnetic ions. Suitable metal ions include those having atomic numbers of 22 29 inclusive 42 44 and 58 70 inclusive and have oxidation states of 2 or 3. Examples of such metal ions are chromium III manganese II iron II iron III cobalt II nickel II copper II praseodymium III neodymium III samarium III gadolinium III terbium III dysprosium III holmium III erbium III and ytterbium III . Commercially available MRI contrast agents suitable for use as cargo compounds include but are not limited to Omniscan gadodiamide and Teslascan from GE Healthcare Chalfont St. Giles United Kingdom .

In another embodiment a cargo compound is delivered to kill or inhibit the growth of a cell such as a brain cancer cell or other cancer cell. For example the cargo compound may be a cell cycle control protein such as p53 a cyclin dependent kinase inhibitor such as p16 p21 or p27 a suicide protein such as thymidine kinase or nitroreductase a cytokine or other immunomodulatory protein such as interleukin 1 interleukin 2 or granulocyte macrophage colony stimulating factor GM CSF or a toxin such as exotoxin A. In other embodiments a biologically active fragment of one of the above classes of compounds may be delivered.

In yet another embodiment the cargo compound is a drug used to treat cancer. Such drugs include for example 5 fluorouracil Interferon Methotrexate Tamoxifen and Vincrinstine. Other cargo compounds suitable for treating cancer include but not limited to alkylating agents such as nitrogen mustards alkyl sulfonates nitrosoureas ethylenimines and triazenes antimetabolites such as folate antagonists purine analogues and pyrimidine analogues antibiotics such as anthracyclines bleomycins mitomycin dactinomycin and plicamycin enzymes such as L asparaginase farnesyl protein transferase inhibitors 5alpha reductase inhibitors inhibitors of 17beta hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 3 hormonal agents such as glucocorticoids estrogens antiestrogens androgens antiandrogens progestins and luteinizing hormone releasing hormone antagonists octreotide acetate microtubule disruptor agents such as ecteinascidins or their analogs and derivatives microtubule stabilizing agents such as taxanes for example paclitaxel Taxol docetaxel Taxotere and their analogs and epothilones such as epothilones A F and their analogs plant derived products such as vinca alkaloids epipodophyllotoxins taxanes and topoisomerase inhibitors prenyl protein transferase inhibitors and miscellaneous agents such as hydroxyurea procarbazine mitotane hexamethylmelamine platinum coordination complexes such as cisplatin and carboplatin and other agents used as anti cancer and cytotoxic agents such as biological response modifiers growth factors immune modulators and monoclonal antibodies.

Representative examples of these classes of anti cancer and cytotoxic agents include but are not limited to mechlorethamine hydrochloride cyclophosphamide chlorambucil melphalan ifosfamide busulfan carmustin lomustine semustine streptozocin thiotepa dacarbazine methotrexate thioguanine mercaptopurine fludarabine pentastatin cladribin cytarabine fluorouracil doxorubicin hydrochloride daunorubicin idarubicin bleomycin sulfate mitomycin C actinomycin D safracins saframycins quinocarcins discodermolides vincristine vinblastine vinorelbine tartrate etoposide etoposide phosphate teniposide paclitaxel tamoxifen estramustine estramustine phosphate sodium flutamide buserelin leuprolide pteridines diyneses levamisole aflacon interferon interleukins aldesleukin filgrastim sargramostim rituximab BCG tretinoin irinotecan hydrochloride betamethosone gemcitabine hydrochloride altretamine and topoteca and any analogs or derivatives thereof.

Examples of anticancer and other cytotoxic agents useful as cargo compounds include the following epothilone derivatives as found in German Patent Nos. 4138042.8 WO 97 19086 WO 98 22461 WO 98 25929 WO 98 38192 WO 99 01124 WO 99 02224 WO 99 02514 WO 99 03848 WO 99 07692 WO 99 27890 WO 99 28324 WO 99 43653 WO 99 54330 WO 99 54318 WO 99 54319 WO 99 65913 WO 99 67252 WO 99 67253 and WO 00 00485 cyclin dependent kinase inhibitors as found in WO 99 24416 see also U.S. Pat. No. 6 040 321 and prenyl protein transferase inhibitors as found in WO 97 30992 and WO 98 54966 and agents such as those described generically and specifically in U.S. Pat. No. 6 011 029 the compounds of which can be employed together with any NHR modulators such as AR modulators ER modulators with LHRH modulators especially in the treatment of cancer.

Other examples of cargo compounds include those that can advantageously be delivered to the brain. Such cargo compounds include drugs and other therapeutics for treating conditions related to the brain. Such brain related conditions include but are not limited to depression affective disorders chronic pain epilepsy Alzheimer disease stroke neuroprotection brain and spinal cord injury brain cancer HIV infection of the brain various ataxia producing disorders amyotrophic lateral sclerosis ALS Huntington disease childhood inborn genetic errors affecting the brain Parkinson s disease and multiple sclerosis.

Antidepressants drugs that may be used as cargo compounds to treat depression and affective disorders include but are not limited to tricyclic antidepressants such as nortriptyline venlafaxine Effexor and nefazadone Serzone selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors SSRIs such as fluoxetine Prozac sertraline Zoloft fluvoxamine Luvox paroxetine Paxil and citalopram Celexa sedating mirtazepine Remeron and the more activating bupropion Wellbutrin . Also of interest are headache and migraine medications including but not limited to ergotamine dihydroergotamine ketoprofen propranolol timolol atenolol metoprolol and nadolol.

Drugs that can be used as cargo compounds to treat chronic pain include but are not limited to common pain relievers such as acetaminophen Tylenol anti inflammatory drugs such as aspirin non steroidal anti inflammatory drugs NSAIDs such as ibuprofen Advil Motrin and naproxen Aleve opioid pain medications such as morphine like opioids antidepressants and anti seizure medications.

Drugs that can be used as cargo to treat epilepsy include but are not limited to phenobarbital diphenylhydantoin trimethadione Tridione diazepam Valium carbamazepine Tegretol valproic acid Depakene Emeside ethosuximide Zarontin ethosuximide trileptal carbamazepine Keppra levetiracetam lamictal acetazolamide triagabine sodium valproate pregabalin clonazepam carbamazepine topiramate valproic acid lamotrigine ethosuximide clobazam vigabatrin levetiracetam gabapentin zonisamide primidone phenyloin and oxcarbazepine.

Drugs that can be used as cargo compounds to treat Alzheimer disease include but are not limited to cholinesterase inhibitors such as Razadyne formerly known as Reminyl galantamine Exelon rivastigmine Aricept donepezil Cognex tacrine and an N methyl D aspartate NMDA antagonist Namenda memantine .

Drugs that can be used as cargo compounds to treat stroke or for neuroprotection include but are not limited to Gavestinel erythropoietin EPO thrombopoietin TNF alpha estrogens melatonin and cannabinoids.

Drugs that can be used as cargo compounds to treat HIV infection of the brain include but are not limited to non nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors NNRTIs such as delavardine efavirenz and nevirapine nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors NRTIs such as abacavir abacavir lamivudine abacavir lamivudine zidovudine didanosine emtricitabine emtricitabine tenofovir DF lamivudine lamivudine zidovudine stavudine tenofovir DF zalcitabine and zidovudine protease inhibitors PIs such as amprenavir atazanavir fosamprenavir indinavir lopinavir ritonavir nelfinavir ritonavir saquinavir and tipranavir and fusion inhibitors such as enfuvirtide.

Drugs that can be used as cargo compounds to treat amyotrophic lateral sclerosis ALS include but are not limited to creatine Myotrophin Celebrex Neotrogin NAALADase neurodex Rilutek oxandrolone coenzyme Q10 topiramate Topamax xaliproden indinavir minocycline and buspirone.

Drugs that can be used as cargo compounds to treat Huntington disease include but are not limited to antipsychotic drugs such as haloperidol or other drugs such as clonazepam anti depressants such as fluoxetine sertraline and nortriptyline tranquilizers and lithium minocycline citalopram and Ethyl EPA Miraxion .

Drugs that can be used as cargo compounds to treat Parkinson s Disease include but are not limited to anticholinergics or amantadine levodopa L dopa bromocriptine pergolide pramipexole ropinirole selegiline and amantadine.

Drugs that can be used as cargo compounds to treat multiple sclerosis include but are not limited to adrenocorticotropic hormone better known as ACTH prednisone prednisolone methylprednisolone betamethasone dexamethasone beta interferon Avonex Betaseron and Rebif alpha interferon Novantrone mitoxantrone cyclosporine Sandimmune cyclophosphamide Cytoxan methotrexate azathioprine Imuran and cladribine Leustatin .

In yet another embodiment the cargo compound is a nucleic acid coding for one of the above classes of compounds.

The above examples are provided for illustration only many other such compounds are known to those skilled in the art.

Nucleic Acids Coding for a Transit Domain or AAEAP Transit Domain or Either Linked to a Cargo Compound

In another aspect the present invention provides nucleic acid molecules encoding the AAEAP SEQ ID NO 25 transit peptides and variants thereof or fusion proteins comprising a AAEAP SEQ ID NO 25 transit peptide linked to a cargo compound where the cargo compound is a protein. The nucleic acid molecule according to the invention can be prepared by a combination of known techniques in the art. The coding sequences used in these nucleic acids may be those found in the native genomic DNA encoding the particular peptide or may be designed from known codons. These coding sequences may also be designed to take into account alternate codon usage and preferred codon usage of the organism in which the peptide is to be expressed. The nucleic acid sequences for the AAEAP SEQ ID NO 25 transit peptide and the transit peptide cargo complexes may individually be prepared by chemical synthesis or cloning. The nucleic acid sequences may be then ligated together with ligase in order to give a nucleic acid molecule of interest.

The compositions of the invention can be used in for example the detection or imaging of a cell type in the treatment of cancer particularly of the central nervous system or brain or in the treatment of a condition related to the brain. The compositions may be administered in an therapeutically effective amount. Typically the host organism is a mammal such as a human or animal.

In some embodiments the cargo compound is delivered complexed to a AAEAP SEQ ID NO 25 transit peptide while in other embodiments the cargo compound is co administered with the a AAEAP SEQ ID NO 25 transit peptide but is not complexed to it. More than one cargo compound may be co administered with a AAEAP transit peptide. Co administration of the cargo compound may be contemporaneous with the administration of the transit peptide either in the same pharmaceutical preparation or in another pharmaceutical preparation administered within about one hour of administering the transit peptide. In addition the co administration of the AAEAP SEQ ID NO 25 transit peptide and cargo compound may include an administration of the AAEAP SEQ ID NO 25 transit peptide that takes place more than about one hour but less that about two hours four hours six hours twelve hours or twenty four hours from the administration of the cargo compound. In some embodiments a AAEAP transit peptide cargo compound s and a cupredoxin derived transport peptide may be coadministered. In other embodiments a AAEAP transit peptide may be coadministered with a cupredoxin derived transport peptide complexed with cargo compound s .

In other various embodiments of the present invention a AAEAP SEQ ID NO 25 transit peptide delivers a cargo compound into a cell in vitro ex vivo or in vivo. For example delivery may be achieved in vitro by adding a complex of a AAEAP SEQ ID NO 25 transit peptide and a cargo compound to a cell culture such as a biopsy. Alternatively delivery may be achieved ex vivo by adding the complex to a sample removed from a patient for example blood tissue or bone marrow and returning the treated sample to the patient. Delivery may also be achieved by administration of the complex directly to a patient. The methods of the present invention may be used for therapeutic prophylactic diagnostic or research purposes.

Compositions containing a AAEAP SEQ ID NO 25 transit peptide including complexes comprising a AAEAP SEQ ID NO 25 transit peptide may be administered by any suitable route for example by oral buccal inhalation sublingual rectal vaginal transurethral nasal topical percutaneous i.e. transdermal or parenteral including intravenous intramuscular subcutaneous and intracoronary administration or by either intracerebroventricular or intracerebral injection. The compositions of the invention and pharmaceutical formulations thereof can be administered in any amount effective to achieve its intended purpose. When administrated to treat cancer or any other condition requirement treatment the composition is administered in a therapeutically effective amount. Guidance for the dosage and administration schedule of various cargo compounds may be gathered from the many references which describe the use of such compounds in treatment or diagnosis such as the Physicians Desk Reference PDR or as otherwise determined by one of ordinary skill in the art.

The compositions of the invention may be sterilized by conventional well known sterilization techniques or may be sterile filtered. The resulting aqueous solutions may be packaged for use as is or lyophilized the lyophilized preparation being combined with a sterile solution prior to administration.

When administering the AAEAP SEQ ID NO 25 transit peptides cargo compounds and or transit peptide cargo compound complexes in accordance with the present invention in an intravenous manner the administration may be by intravenous drip or intermittent infusion.

The exact formulation route of administration and dosage is determined by the attending health care provider or physician in view of the patient s condition. Dosage amount and interval can be adjusted individually to provide plasma levels of the compositions of the invention which are sufficient to maintain therapeutic effect. Generally the desired composition is administered in an admixture with a pharmaceutical carrier selected with regard to the intended route of administration and standard pharmaceutical practice.

The appropriate dosage may vary depending upon for example the compound containing the AAEAP SEQ ID NO 25 transit peptide employed the cargo compound s the host the mode of administration and the nature and severity of the conditions being treated or diagnosed. However in one embodiment of the methods of the present invention satisfactory treatment results in humans are indicated to be obtained at daily dosages from about 0.001 to about 20 mg kg of body weight of the compound containing a AAEAP SEQ ID NO 25 transit peptide or a AAEAP transit peptide complex. In one embodiment an indicated daily dosage for treatment in humans may be in the range from about 0.7 mg to about 1400 mg of a compound containing the AAEAP SEQ ID NO 25 transit peptide or a AAEAP transit peptide complex conveniently administered for example in daily doses weekly doses monthly doses and or continuous dosing. Daily doses can be in discrete dosages from 1 to 12 times per day or more. Alternatively doses can be administered every other day every third day every fourth day every fifth day every sixth day every week and similarly in day increments up to 31 days or more. Dosing can be continuous intermittent or a single dose using any applicable dosing form including tablet patches i.v. administration and the like. More specifically the composition is administered in a therapeutically effective amount. In specific embodiments the therapeutically effective amount is from about 0.01 20 mg kg of body weight. In specific embodiments the dose level is about 10 mg kg day about 15 mg kg day about 20 mg kg day about 25 mg kg day about 30 mg kg day about 35 mg kg day about 40 mg kg day about 45 mg kg day or about 50 mg kg day.

The method of introducing compositions containing the AAEAP SEQ ID NO 25 transit peptide s or a AAEAP transit peptide complex to patients is in some embodiments co administration with other drugs known to treat cancer. Such methods are well known in the art. In a specific embodiment the compositions containing the AAEAP SEQ ID NO 25 transit peptide or a AAEAP transit peptide complex are part of an cocktail or co dosing containing or with other drugs for treating cancer. Such drugs include any of the cargo compounds listed herein for the treatment of cancer.

Pharmaceutical compositions comprising the compositions of the invention may be used in accordance with the present invention can be formulated in a conventional manner using one or more physiologically acceptable carriers comprising excipients and auxiliaries that facilitate processing of the composition active agents for inhibiting or stimulating the secretion of the composition or a mixture thereof into preparations which can be used therapeutically.

Nucleic acid molecules encoding a AAEAP transit peptide or a fusion protein combining a either transit peptide and a cargo compound s and or a cupredoxin derived transport peptide can be inserted into vectors and used as gene therapy vectors. Gene therapy vectors can be delivered to a subject by for example intravenous injection local administration U.S. Pat. No. 5 328 470 or by stereotactic injection. Chen et al. Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 91 3054 57 1994 The pharmaceutical preparation of a gene therapy vector can include an acceptable diluent or can comprise a slow release matrix in which the gene delivery vehicle is imbedded. Alternatively where the complete gene delivery vector can be produced intact from recombinant cells e.g. retroviral vectors the pharmaceutical preparation can include one or more cells that produce the gene delivery system.

In one aspect the composition is delivered as DNA such that the complex is generated in situ. In one embodiment the DNA is naked as described for example in Ulmer et al. 259 1745 49 1993 and reviewed by Cohen 259 1691 92 1993 . The uptake of naked DNA may be increased by coating the DNA onto a carrier e.g. a biodegradable bead which is efficiently transported into the cells. In such methods the DNA may be present within any of a variety of delivery systems known to those of ordinary skill in the art including nucleic acid expression systems bacterial and viral expression systems. Techniques for incorporating DNA into such expression systems are well known to those of ordinary skill in the art. See e.g. WO90 11092 WO93 24640 WO 93 17706 and U.S. Pat. No. 5 736 524.

Vectors used to shuttle genetic material from organism to organism can be divided into two general classes Cloning vectors are replicating plasmid or phage with regions that are non essential for propagation in an appropriate host cell and into which foreign DNA can be inserted the foreign DNA is replicated and propagated as if it were a component of the vector. An expression vector such as a plasmid yeast or animal virus genome is used to introduce foreign genetic material into a host cell or tissue in order to transcribe and translate the foreign DNA such as the DNA of the composition. In expression vectors the introduced DNA is operably linked to elements such as promoters that signal to the host cell to transcribe the inserted DNA. Some promoters are exceptionally useful such as inducible promoters that control gene transcription in response to specific factors. Operably linking a composition polynucleotide to an inducible promoter can control the expression of the AAEAP transit peptide composition polypeptide or fragments. Examples of classic inducible promoters include those that are responsive to interferon heat shock heavy metal ions and steroids such as glucocorticoids Kaufman 185 487 511 1990 and tetracycline. Other desirable inducible promoters include those that are not endogenous to the cells in which the construct is being introduced but however are responsive in those cells when the induction agent is exogenously supplied. In general useful expression vectors are often plasmids. However other forms of expression vectors such as viral vectors e.g. replication defective retroviruses adenoviruses and adeno associated viruses are contemplated.

Vector choice is dictated by the organism or cells being used and the desired fate of the vector. In general vectors comprise signal sequences origins of replication marker genes enhancer elements promoters and transcription termination sequences.

Pharmaceutical compositions of the invention containing a AAEAP SEQ ID NO 25 transit peptide or a complex of a AAEAP SEQ ID NO 25 transit peptide linked to a cargo compound can be manufactured in any conventional manner e.g. by conventional mixing dissolving granulating dragee making emulsifying encapsulating entrapping or lyophilizing processes. The AAEAP transit peptide complex can be readily combined with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier well known in the art. Such carriers enable the preparation to be formulated as a tablet pill dragee capsule liquid gel syrup slurry suspension and the like. Suitable excipients may also include for example fillers and cellulose preparations. Other excipients can include for example flavoring agents coloring agents detackifiers thickeners and other acceptable additives adjuvants or binders.

In various embodiments the composition includes carriers and excipients including but not limited to buffers carbohydrates mannitol proteins polypeptides or amino acids such as glycine antioxidants bacteriostats chelating agents suspending agents thickening agents and or preservatives water oils saline solutions aqueous dextrose and glycerol solutions other pharmaceutically acceptable auxiliary substances as required to approximate physiological conditions such as buffering agents tonicity adjusting agents wetting agents and the like. It will be recognized that while any suitable carrier known to those of ordinary skill in the art may be employed to administer the compositions of this invention the type of carrier will vary depending on the mode of administration. Compounds may also be encapsulated within liposomes using well known technology. Biodegradable microspheres may also be employed as carriers for the compositions of this invention. Suitable biodegradable microspheres are shown for example in U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 897 268 5 075 109 5 928 647 5 811 128 5 820 883 5 853 763 5 814 344 and 5 942 252. Compounds as used herein include the peptides amino acid sequences cargo compounds and complexes and nucleic acids of the present invention.

Intravenous fluids for use in preparing pharmaceutical compositions to administer the AAEAP SEQ ID NO 25 transit peptides cargos and transit peptide cargo complexes and nucleic acids may be composed of crystalloids or colloids. Crystalloids as used herein are aqueous solutions of mineral salts or other water soluble molecules. Colloids as used herein contain larger insoluble molecules such as gelatin. Intravenous fluids may be sterile.

Crystalloid fluids that may be used for intravenous administration include but are not limited to normal saline a solution of sodium chloride at 0.9 concentration Ringer s lactate or Ringer s solution and a solution of 5 dextrose in water sometimes called D5W as described in Table 4.

The half life in the bloodstream of the compositions of the invention can be extended or optimized by several methods well known to those in the art including but not limited to circularized peptides Monk et al. BioDrugs 19 4 261 78 2005 DeFreest et al. J. Pept. Res. 63 5 409 19 2004 D L peptides diastereomer Futaki et al. J. Biol. Chem. February 23 276 8 5836 40 2001 Papo et al. Cancer Res. 64 16 5779 86 2004 Miller et al. Biochem. Pharmacol. 36 1 169 76 1987 peptides containing unusual amino acids Lee et al. J. Pept. Res. 63 2 69 84 2004 and N and C terminal modifications Labrie et al. Clin. Invest. Med. 13 5 275 8 1990 . Of particular interest are d isomerization substitution and modification of peptide stability via D substitution or L amino acid substitution.

When administration is by injection composition may be formulated in aqueous solutions preferably in physiologically compatible buffers such as Hanks solution Ringer s solution or physiological saline buffer. The solution may contain formulatory agents such as suspending stabilizing and or dispersing agents. Alternatively the composition may be in powder form for constitution with a suitable vehicle e.g. sterile pyrogen free water before use.

When administration is by inhalation the composition may be delivered in the form of an aerosol spray from pressurized packs or a nebulizer with the use of a suitable propellant e.g. dichlorodifluoromethane trichlorofluoromethane carbon dioxide or other suitable gas. In the case of a pressurized aerosol the dosage unit may be determined by providing a valve to deliver a metered amount. Capsules and cartridges of e.g. gelatin for use in an inhaler or insufflator may be formulated containing a powder mix of the proteins and a suitable powder base such as lactose or starch.

When administration is by topical administration the composition may be formulated as solutions gels ointments creams suspensions and the like as are well known in the art. In some embodiments administration is by means of a transdermal patch. When administration is by suppository e.g. rectal or vaginal composition may also be formulated in compositions containing conventional suppository bases.

When administration is oral the composition can be readily formulated in combination with pharmaceutically acceptable carriers well known in the art. A solid carrier such as mannitol lactose magnesium stearate and the like may be employed such carriers enable the chemotaxin to be formulated as tablets pills dragees capsules liquids gels syrups slurries suspensions and the like for oral ingestion by a subject to be treated. For oral solid formulations such as for example powders capsules and tablets suitable excipients include fillers such as sugars cellulose preparation granulating agents and binding agents.

Other convenient carriers as well known in the art also include multivalent carriers such as bacterial capsular polysaccharide a dextran or a genetically engineered vector. In addition sustained release formulations that include the composition allow for the release of the composition over extended periods of time such that without the sustained release formulation composition would be cleared from a subject s system and or degraded by for example proteases and simple hydrolysis before eliciting or enhancing an therapeutic effect.

In another aspect the invention provides kits containing one or more of the following in a package or container 1 a reagent comprising a complex of a or AAEAP SEQ ID NO 25 transit peptide linked to a cargo compound 2 a reagent containing a pharmaceutically acceptable adjuvant or excipient 3 a vehicle for administration such as a syringe 4 instructions for administration. Embodiments in which two or more of components 1 4 are found in the same container are also contemplated. In other embodiments the kit components may include a reagent comprising a or AAEAP SEQ ID NO 25 transit peptide and a separate reagent comprising the cargo compound. In other embodiments the kit comprises a reagent comprising the a or AAEAP SEQ ID NO 25 transit peptide but not a reagent comprising the cargo compound. In other embodiments the reagents are formulated for intravenous administration and or the vehicle of administration is appropriate for intravenous administration. In some embodiments the kit may comprise a cupredoxin derived transit peptide specifically azurin. In other embodiments the kits may comprise reagents for linking a cargo compound to a AAEAP transit peptide or cupredoxin derived transport peptide.

When a kit is supplied the different components of the composition may be packaged in separate containers and admixed immediately before use. Such packaging of the components separately may permit long term storage without losing the active components functions.

The reagents included in the kit can be supplied in containers of any sort such that the life of the different components are preserved and are not adsorbed or altered by the materials of the container. For example sealed glass ampules may contain lyophilized polypeptide or polynucleotide or buffers that have been packaged under a neutral non reacting gas such as nitrogen. Ampules may consist of any suitable material such as glass organic polymers such as polycarbonate polystyrene etc. ceramic metal or any other material typically employed to hold similar reagents. Other examples of suitable containers include simple bottles that may be fabricated from similar substances as ampules and envelopes that may comprise foil lined interiors such as aluminum or an alloy. Other containers include test tubes vials flasks bottles syringes or the like. Containers may have a sterile access port such as a bottle having a stopper that can be pierced by a hypodermic injection needle. Other containers may have two compartments that are separated by a readily removable membrane that upon removal permits the components to be mixed. Removable membranes may be glass plastic rubber etc.

Kits may also be supplied with instructional materials. Instructions may be printed on paper or other substrate and or may be supplied as an electronic readable medium such as a floppy disc CD ROM DVD ROM Zip disc videotape audiotape flash memory device etc. Detailed instructions may not be physically associated with the kit instead a user may be directed to an internet web site specified by the manufacturer or distributor of the kit or supplied as electronic mail.

A more complete understanding of the present invention can be obtained by reference to the following specific Examples. The Examples are described solely for purposes of illustration and are not intended to limit the scope of the invention. Changes in form and substitution of equivalents are contemplated as circumstances may suggest or render expedient. Although specific terms have been employed herein such terms are intended in a descriptive sense and not for purposes of limitations. Modifications and variations of the invention as hereinbefore set forth can be made without departing from the spirit and scope thereof and therefore only such limitations should be imposed as are indicated by the appended embodiments.

The laz gene from was cloned based on its known sequence SEQ ID NO 1 . The azurin gene SEQ ID NO 2 termed paz and the sequence of the H.8 epitope of laz from SEQ ID NO 3 were used to clone in frame the H.8 epitope gene in the 5 end of paz to produce H.8 paz or in the 3 end of paz to generate paz H.8 as described below.

Cell Lines and Reagents. Human cancer cells bacterial strains and plasmids are listed in Table 5. The human breast cancer MCF 7 cells and brain tumor LN 229 cells are from the stock culture collection of the Department of Surgical Oncology University of Illinois at Chicago UIC . The cells were cultured in MEM with Eagle s salt containing 2 mM L glutamine 0.1 mM MEM essential amino acids and supplemented with 10 heat inactivated fetal bovine serum 100 units ml penicillin and 100 g ml streptomycin. All cells were grown at 37 C. in 5 CO. Yamada et al. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 99 14098 14103 2002 Punj et al. Oncogene 23 2367 2378 2004 .

Cloning and Expression of the Paz and Laz Genes. The cloning and hyperexpression of the azurin gene has been described. Yamada et al. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 99 14098 14103 2002 Punj et al. Oncogene 23 2367 2378 2004 The Laz encoding gene laz of was amplified by PCR with genomic DNA of strain F62 as template DNA. The forward and reverse primers used were 5 CCGCGGCAGGGATGTTGTAAATATCCG 3 SEQ ID NO 4 and 5 GGGCCGTGGCAGGCATACAGCATTTCAATCGG 3 SEQ ID NO 5 where the additionally introduced restriction sites of EcoRI and KpnI sites are underlined respectively. The amplified DNA fragment of 1.0 kb digested with EcoRI and KpnI was inserted into the corresponding sites of pUC18 vector Yanisch Perron et al. Gene 33 103 119 1985 so that the laz gene was placed downstream of the lac promoter to yield an expression plasmid pUC18 laz Table 5 .

The plasmids expressing fusion H.8 of Laz and azurin of Paz were constructed by PCR with pUC19 paz and pUC18 laz as templates. For H.8 Paz fusion a 3.1 kb fragment was amplified with pUC18 laz as a template and primers 5 Phosphorylated GGCAGCAGGGGCTTCGGCAGCATCTGC 3 SEQ ID NO 6 and 5 CTGCAGTCTAGAGGATCCCG 3 SEQ ID NO 7 where a SalI site is underlined. A PCR amplified a 0.4 kb fragment was obtained from pUC19 paz as a template and primers 5 phosphorylated GCCGAGTGCTCGGTGGACATCCAGG 3 SEQ ID NO 8 and 5 TATCACTTCAGGGTCAGGGTG 3 SEQ ID NO 9 where a XhoI site is underlined. A SalI digested PCR fragment from pUC18 laz and XhoI digested PCR fragment from pUC19 paz were cloned to yield an expression plasmid pUC18 H.8 laz Table 5 .

For Paz H.8 fusion a 3.3 kb fragment was amplified with pUC19 paz as a template and primers 5 CTTCAGGGTCAGGGTGCCCTTCATC 3 SEQ ID NO 10 and 5 CTGCAGGTCGACTCTAGACG 3 SEQ ID NO 11 where a BamHI site is underlined. A 0.13 kb fragment was amplified with pUC18 laz as a template and primers 5 phosphorylated TGCTCTCAAGAACCTGCCGCGCCTGC 3 SEQ ID NO 12 and 5 TATTAGGCAGCAGGGGCTTCGGCAGCATCTGC 3 SEQ ID NO 13 where a BamHI site is underlined and the additionally introduced TTA corresponding to the bacterial gene stop codon is italicized. Two BamHI digested PCR fragments were cloned to yield an expression plasmid pUC19 paz H.8 Table 5 .

Plasmid Construction for Fusion GST Proteins. The glutathione S transferase GST encoding gene was amplified by PCR with pGEX 5X 3 GE Healthcare Bio Sciences Corp. Piscataway N.J. as template DNA. The forward and reverse primers used were 5 CGTGTCCCCTATACTAGGTTATTGG 3 SEQ ID NO 14 and 5 CCCTCAGGGGATCCCACGACCTTCGATCAGATCC 3 SEQ ID NO 15 where the additionally introduced restriction sites of SacI and HindIII are underlined and the additionally introduced TCA corresponding bacterial gene stop codon is italicized respectively. The amplified DNA fragment of 1.0 kb digested with SacI and HindIII was inserted into the corresponding sites of pET29a vector to yield an expression plasmid pET29a gst Table 5 .

For H.8 GST fusion the signal peptide and H.8 encoding region of laz was amplified by PCR with pUC18 laz as template DNA. The forward and reverse primers used were 5 GGAATTAAAGCTTATCTGGC 3 SEQ ID NO 16 and 5 CCCGGCAGCAGGGGCTTCGGC 3 SEQ ID NO 17 where the additionally introduced restriction sites of NdeI and EcoRI sites are underlined respectively. The amplified DNA fragment of 0.14 kb digested with NdeI and EcoRI was inserted into the corresponding sites of pET29a gst vector to yield an expression plasmid pET29a H.8 gst Table 5 .

For GST H.8 fusion the H.8 encoding region was amplified by PCR with pUC18 laz as template DNA. The forward and reverse primers used were 5 CGCCTGCTCTCAAGAACCTGCCGCGCC 3 SEQ ID NO 18 and 5 CGTTAGGCAGCAGGGGCTTCGGCAGCATCTGCAGG 3 SEQ ID NO 19 where the additionally introduced restriction sites of BamHI and EcoRI are underlined and the introduced bacterial gene stop codon TTA is italicized. The amplified DNA fragment of 0.14 kb digested with BamHI and EcoRI was inserted into the corresponding sites of pGEX 5X 3 vector to yield a pGEX 5X 3 H.8. The GST H.8 fusion region was then amplified by PCR with pGEX 5X 3 H.8 as a template DNA. The forward and reverse primers used were 5 CGTGTCCCCTATACTAGGTTATTGG 3 SEQ ID NO 20 and 5 CCGTCAGGCAGCAGGGGCTTCGGCAG 3 SEQ ID NO 21 where the additionally introduced restriction sites of SacI and XhoI sites are underlined and the bacterial gene stop codon TCA is italicized. The amplified DNA fragment of 1.1 kb digested with SacI and XhoI was inserted into the corresponding sites of pET29a vector to yield an expression plasmid pET29a gst H.8 Table 5 .

When strains harboring these plasmids were grown in presence of IPTG cells lysed and the proteins purified as described for azurin Yamada et al. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 99 14098 14103 2002 Punj et al. Oncogene 23 2367 2378 2004 Yamada et al. Cell. Microbiol. 7 1418 1431 2005 the various azurin derivatives migrated on SDS PAGE as single components although the H.8 containing proteins about 17 kDa showed anomalous migrations as noted before Cannon et al. id. Fisette et al. id. .

The preferential entry of Paz towards cancer cells Yamada et al. Cell. Microbiol. 7 1418 1431 2005 and its cytotoxicity both in vitro and in vivo towards human melanoma Yamada et al. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 99 14098 14103 2002 and breast cancer Punj et al. Oncogene 23 2367 2378 2004 have been reported. However no effect of Paz or Laz towards brain tumors such as glioblastomas is known. Here the effect of Paz Laz H.8 Paz H.8 epitope in the N terminal of Paz and Paz H.8 H.8 epitope in the C terminal of Paz on both glioblastoma LN 229 cell line and breast cancer MCF 7 cell line cells was studied.

Preparations of Proteins. Azurin Paz of Laz of Paz H.8 and H.8 Paz were purified as described previously. Yamada et al. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 99 14098 14103 2002 Punj et al. Oncogene 23 2367 2378 2004 Yamada et al. Cell. Microbiol. 7 1418 1431 2005 All recombinant GST fusion derivatives were purified as described before. Yamada et al. Cell. Microbiol. 7 1418 1431 2005 A chemically synthesized 39 amino acid H.8 peptide was purchased.

Cytotoxicity Assay. The 3 4 5 dimethylthiazol 2 yl 2 5 diphenyl tetrazolium bromide MTT assay was performed to determine the cytotoxicity toward cancer cells. Cells 5 10per well were seeded into 96 well culture plates in 100 1 of the medium at 37 C. with 5 CO. After overnight incubation the supernatant was removed and fresh media containing proteins at various concentrations as specified were added to the attached cells. These cells were incubated for various time periods as specified before the number of live cells was determined by MTT assay by adding 10 l of 5 mg ml MTT Sigma Aldrich St. Louis Mo. solution to the culture and incubating for 2 h at 37 C. MTT reaction was terminated by adding 100 l of 40 mM HCl in isopropanol. The MTT formazan formed was measured spectrophotometrically according to the method described by Mosmann J. Immunol. Methods 65 55 63 1983 .

The synthetic H.8 peptide had very little cytotoxicity towards either glioblastoma LN 229 or breast cancer MCF 7 cells. The effect of azurin Paz was dose dependent albeit low in glioblastoma but not in breast cancer cells with increasing cytotoxicity as the azurin concentration was raised from 10 M to 40 M. The cytotoxicity increased only marginally beyond a 6 h incubation period. Most notable was the difference in the cytotoxicity of Paz Paz H.8 H.8 Paz and Laz in glioblastoma and breast cancer cells. While Paz Paz H.8 H.8 Paz and Laz had essentially identical cytotoxicities at all doses in MCF 7 cells for different periods of incubation Paz had much lower cytotoxicity than Paz H.8 H.8 Paz or Laz for glioblastoma cells particularly at shorter periods of incubation 6 h . Thus the H.8 moiety while itself lacking cytotoxicity appeared to enhance the cytotoxicity of Paz but only towards glioblastoma and not towards breast cancer cells.

The enhanced cytotoxicity of Paz H.8 H.8 Paz and Laz towards glioblastoma cells as compared to Paz raised the question if the H.8 moiety somehow facilitated the uptake of azurin in glioblastoma cells. Alexa Fluor 568 labeled red fluorescent proteins Invitrogen Molecular Probes Corp. Carlsbad Calif. were used to determine the internalization of these proteins inside glioblastoma and breast cancer cells. This technique was previously used to demonstrate the internalization of azurin in MCF 7 cells Punj et al. Oncogene 23 2367 2378 2004 Yamada et al. Cell. Microbiol. 7 1418 1431 2005 .

Confocal Microscopy. For preparation of microscopic samples cells were cultured on coverslips overnight at 37 C. under 5 CO. Pre warmed 37 C. fresh media were mixed with red fluorescent labeled Alexa Fluor 568 azurin or GST fusion derivatives and incubated with the cells for indicated times. The cells were washed with PBS and fixed with methanol at 20 C. for 5 min. After washing with PBS thrice and the addition of mounting media containing 1.5 mg ml 4 6 diamidino 2 phenylindole DAPI for staining nuclei VECTASHIELD Vector Laboratories Burlingame Calif. images were taken by using a Carl Zeiss LSM510 laser scanning confocal microscope. Yamada et al. Cell. Microbiol. 7 1418 1431 2005 

Azurin Paz was internalized with a reduced efficiency than Paz H.8 H.8 Paz and Laz demonstrating a barrier for Paz entry in glioblastoma LN 229 cells . In contrast Paz was efficiently internalized in breast cancer MCF 7 cells as previously reported with an equal or somewhat higher efficiency than Paz H.8 H.8 Paz or Laz . Punj et al. Oncogene 23 2367 2378 2004 Yamada et al. Cell. Microbiol. 7 1418 1431 2005 A dose dependency of Laz entry in LN 229 cells demonstrated an optimum concentration of about 16 M during a 30 min incubation period at 37 C. beyond which there was no further enhancement data not shown . At 10 M concentration while the bulk of Laz was internalized in LN 229 cells in about 10 to 20 min the internalization of Paz was minimal under such conditions suggesting that Paz internalization was inherently inefficient in LN 229 cells. The significant internalization of Paz H.8 and H.8 Paz similar to Laz but in contrast to Paz in LN 229 cells appeared to suggest that the relative location of the H.8 moiety either in the N terminal or in the C terminal of Paz did not affect its ability to promote internalization of the Paz moiety in glioblastoma cells.

In order to determine if the H.8 epitope need to be a part of Paz as in Laz or could it function alone to promote Paz entry into glioblastoma cells various H.8 fusion proteins in addition to H.8 alone where used. Since small peptides such as the 39 amino acid synthetic H.8 moiety have low stability in solution we constructed glutathione S transferase GST fusions with the H.8 moiety similar to Paz H.8 or H.8 Paz such that H.8 was incorporated in the N terminal of GST H.8 GST or in the C terminal of GST GST H.8 . The construction of the GST fusion peptides is described under Example 1.

Alexa Fluor 568 conjugated Paz fluorescing red was incubated with unlabeled synthetic H.8 peptide GST GST H.8 and H.8 GST fusion proteins separately along with phosphate buffered saline PBS as a control and determined the internalization of 20 M Paz mixture in LN 229 cells after incubation at 37 C. for 30 min. The synthetic H.8 peptide when introduced separately along with Paz did enhance Paz internalization as compared to PBS GST or GST H.8 . Quantification of the fluorescence showed that the H.8 peptide stimulated Paz entry by 2.1 fold. The presence of H.8 GST however significantly enhanced more than 3 fold the internalization of Paz . GST H.8 on the other hand showed only a mild stimulation . Paz itself entered only slowly in glioblastoma cells demonstrating that the entry in the brain tumor cells is mediated by H.8. H.8 alone did not enter the glioblastoma cells but its ability to stimulate the internalization of Paz reflects its ability to facilitate entry of proteins into brain tumor cells.

We incubated the synthetic H.8 peptide GST GST H.8 and H.8 GST proteins 20 M each in absence or in presence of 20 M Paz with LN 229 cells for 24 h and then measured the extent of cytotoxicity by measuring the viable glioblastoma cells by the MTT assay after 24 h. In absence of Paz none of the H.8 peptide GST or GST fusion proteins demonstrated any significant cytotoxicity FIG. F Paz . In presence of 20 M Paz which itself demonstrated a low cytotoxicity in presence of the H.8 peptide or the PBS Paz considerable enhancement of cytotoxicity was observed only in presence of the H.8 GST Paz although GST itself or GST H.8 did show some enhancement of cytotoxicity Paz . Taken together these data suggest that the H.8 moiety when present as part of or in presence of a protein such as Paz facilitates the transport of Paz inside such cells resulting in enhanced cytotoxicity.

The ability of the H.8 epitope to allow enhanced internalization of a fusion or individual protein in glioblastoma LN 229 cells A and D raised the question of whether H.8 as part of the N terminal of H.8 Paz or Laz promoted crossing of the BBB and allow transport of these proteins from peripheral circulation to brain venules.

Odyssey Assay. All proteins were labeled using IRDye 800CW LI COR Biosciences Lincoln Nebr. under conditions recommended by the manufacturers. Five hundred g of Paz H.8 Paz and Laz conjugated with IRdye 800CW were injected intraperitoneally in nude mice. After 24 h the mice were sacrificed brains were taken out and brain images were detected with the LI COR Odyssey Infrared Imaging System 84 m resolution 1 mm offset . The mice brains were then cut horizontally and rostral mesencephalon region images were taken for detecting the presence of the labeled proteins.

Quantification of Fluorescence in Azurin Proteins. Quantification of fluorescence was measured by using Adobe Photoshop as follows one cell was selected by Lasso Tool of Photoshop and the mean value was taken from red histogram of image menu. At least three different cells were measured for one sample and the standard deviation was calculated.

Five hundred g of Paz H.8 Paz and Laz proteins labeled with the infrared dye IRdye 800 CW LI COR Bioscience was injected intraperitoneally into live nude mice. After 24 h the mice were sacrificed the brains were isolated and images were taken using the LI COR Odyssey Infrared Imaging system. While Paz was found to enter the brain venules in small amounts much more Laz and in particular H.8 Paz more than 4 fold was detected inside the brain under such conditions demonstrating a clear role of the H.8 epitope to allow entry of the fusion proteins into the brain.

To investigate if the N terminal localization of the H.8 epitope in Laz contributes to its surface display H.8 fusion derivatives were constructed in the N and C terminals of GST and Paz and FIGS. A B and A B as described in Example 1.

Localization of Surface Exposed Proteins in . strain BL21 DE3 harboring pET29a gst pET29a H.8.gst or pET29a gst H.8 and strain JM109 harboring pUC19 paz pUC19 paz H.8 pUC18 H.8 paz or pUC18 laz were cultured at 37 C. with 0.4 mM Isopropyl D thiogalactoside IPTG . One ml each of these bacterial cultures was centrifuged and the resultant pellets were collected. After washing with PBS twice one ml 1 FBS PBS containing anti GST antibody 1 2000 for GST derivatives or anti azurin antibody 1 500 for azurin derivatives was added. Cell suspensions were incubated on ice for 1 h and then washed with PBS twice. FITC conjugated anti rabbit IgG for GST derivatives or FITC conjugated anti rabbit antibody for azurin derivatives was applied and incubated on ice for 30 min. To remove unbound antibody cells were washed with PBS twice and fixed with ethanol on ice. samples treated with DAPI were then observed under the confocal microscope.

The H.8 fusion proteins were purified and . The cellular localizations of GST as well as the two H.8 fusions in the N and C terminals H.8 GST and GST H.8 are shown in . All three proteins were hyper expressed in and present in the whole cell lysates of when detected by Western blotting using anti GST antibodies . When the periplasmic fractions were isolated from and the presence of the three proteins checked GST and GST H.8 proteins were detected in significant amounts lanes 1 and 3 under periplasmic fraction but only small amounts of the H.8 GST lane 2 under periplasmic fraction could be detected in such periplasmic fractions.

To examine if the rest of the H.8 GST fusion protein might have been transported to the surface of cells cells hyperexpressing the three proteins were grown and harvested washed treated with anti GST antibody to bind any surface exposed GST washed again and treated with FITC conjugated secondary antibodies. If the GST is surface exposed anti GST antibodies would bind to them which then could be detected by FITC conjugated secondary antibodies. Indeed only cells harboring H.8 GST showed the FITC generated green fluorescence H.8 GST suggesting that the presence of the H.8 epitope in the N terminal of GST promoted its transport to the cell surface. The presence of the H.8 moiety in the C terminal of GST GST H.8 as well as GST itself remained largely periplasmic and intracellular without any surface display GST and GST H.8 .

Using the same technique as described above we determined that Paz and Paz H.8 remained intracellular Paz and Paz H.8 while both H.8 Paz and Laz showed surface display confirming that the presence of the H.8 in the N terminal perhaps requiring a free cysteine for lipidation is important for transport of the fusion proteins through the outer membrane to reach the surface.

A Phase I II clinical trial of a H.8 Paz fusion Study Drug will be performed in patients suffering from cancer. Specifically the H.8 domain from Laz encoding gene laz of and the cargo compound is the azurin from paz making the fusion protein H.8 paz. This fusion protein will be constructed as illustrated in Example 1.

Forty nine adult patients with histologically verified cancers of the brain who demonstrate clinical and radiographic progression or recurrence following adequate treatment by currently available FDA approved chemotherapeutic drugs and regimen will be enrolled in an open label prospective study administering the Study Drug. To be eligible for enrollment in the study all patients demonstrate increasing volume of measurable tumor after completion of approved course of chemotherapy regimens. The evidence of persistent metastatic deposits and or continued increase in size or volume must be histologically established. This histological proof can be obtained by a fine needle aspiration FNA biopsy.

The treatment program will be instituted after obtaining informed consent from all patients in accordance with the Institutional Review Board of the University of Illinois Chicago and the FDA. The patients will have no intercurrent illness such as other malignancy history of previous malignancy blood dyscrasias insulin dependent diabetes or other serious cardiovascular diseases which might interfere in appropriate evaluation of the effects of the proposed therapy. Baseline blood work Complete Blood Counts CBC and Serum Chemistry including liver function studies LFT will be performed prior to initiation of therapy. All eligible patients must not receive any cancer chemotherapy concurrently during the period of the trial.

The study drug s will be administered by daily intravenous injection of a pharmaceutically acceptable preparation of the Study Drug for 12 weeks and the subjects will be observed for any dose limiting toxicity. There will be 7 dose levels starting with 10 mg kg day and increasing by 5 mg kg day up to a maximum dose of 50 mg kg day. The efficacy of each dose level will be recorded in 7 patients with advanced measurable cancer.

The response will be estimated by measuring the measurable tumor in 2 dimensions a and b . 1 Total disappearance of the target tumors will be considered as complete response CR 2 A 75 reduction will be considered excellent partial response PR and 3 A good response PR will be post treatment reduction in size by 50 . 4 Reduction of 25 in size will be considered as stable disease SD and 5 

Total disappearance and any reduction in size of the target tumors will indicate that the H.8 azurin treatment is effective for treating cancer. Other indications that the H.8 azurin treatment is effective are a decrease rate of in the appearance of new brain tumors and a decrease in the angiogenesis associated with tumors.

Various modifications and variations of the described examples and systems of the invention will be apparent to those skilled in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention. Although the invention has been described in connection with specific embodiments it should be understood that the invention as claimed should not be unduly limited to such specific embodiments. Indeed various modifications of the described modes for carrying out the invention which are obvious to those skilled in related fields are intended to be within the scope of the following claims.

