---

title: Web server bypass of backend process on near field communications and secure element chips
abstract: A mobile access terminal providing access to data in a secure element of the mobile access terminal is provided. The mobile access terminal comprises the secure element; a web browser; a near field communications system; an over-the-air proxy; an application programming interface layer; and a web server residing on a secure storage area of the mobile access terminal, wherein the web browser is provided with exclusive access to the web server.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09027102&OS=09027102&RS=09027102
owner: Sprint Communications Company L.P.
number: 09027102
owner_city: Overland Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120511
---
Mobile devices may access resources such as the Internet to perform a variety of transactions that may include online purchases of goods and or services. In the course of paying for such goods and or services the mobile device user may provide payment information such as credit card account information. This information may be of a private nature that calls for security measures to avoid theft or fraud.

In an embodiment a mobile access terminal providing access to data in a secure element of the mobile access terminal is disclosed. The mobile access terminal comprises the secure element a web browser a near field communications system an over the air proxy an application programming interface layer and a web server residing on a secure storage area of the mobile access terminal wherein the web browser is provided with exclusive access to the web server.

In an embodiment a method for securing user data on a mobile access terminal is disclosed. The method comprises providing by a mobile access terminal a secure element a web browser a near field communication system an over the air proxy a trusted security zone an application programming interface layer and a web server wherein the web server is located in a secure storage area of the mobile access terminal securely storing by the mobile access terminal secure user data of the user of the mobile access terminal initiating by the mobile access terminal a transaction with another system accessing exclusively by the web browser of the mobile access terminal the secure data from the web server on the core of the mobile access terminal executing a secure transaction by the mobile access terminal with another system.

In an embodiment a mobile access terminal providing access to data in a secure element of the mobile access terminal is disclosed. The mobile access terminal comprises the secure element a web browser a near field communications system an over the air proxy a trusted security zone an application programming interface layer and a web server residing on a secure storage area of the mobile access terminal wherein the web browser is provided with exclusive access to the web server.

These and other features will be more clearly understood from the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings and claims.

It should be understood at the outset that although illustrative implementations of one or more embodiments are illustrated below the disclosed systems and methods may be implemented using any number of techniques whether currently known or not yet in existence. The disclosure should in no way be limited to the illustrative implementations drawings and techniques illustrated below but may be modified within the scope of the appended claims along with their full scope of equivalents.

In an embodiment a system and method are disclosed. The system and method provide a mobile access terminal e.g. a mobile phone with the ability to conduct transactions via a secure element and or a trusted security zone located on the core of the mobile access terminal. For example a mobile phone user may wish to connect to the Internet via a browser on the mobile phone in order to visit a merchant website to purchase merchandise. The user may select merchandise from the website and may make a purchase with for example a credit card or debit card. For convenience the mobile phone user may store their credit card information on their mobile phone. For security reasons the mobile phone user may prefer that the information pertaining to their credit cards e.g. card number security code information expiration date and so on be stored in a manner that reduces the chances that this information will fall into the hands of those that might use it for nefarious reasons such as identity theft. The mobile phone user may therefore store their credit card information in a secure location within their mobile phone such as in a secure element. A secure element may be a portion of the hardware of a mobile phone such as a computer chip e.g. a core of the mobile phone. The secure element may in essence act as a separate entity within the core of the mobile phone and may be arranged and configured to store private information in a way that enhances the security of said information.

In an embodiment a mobile phone may be provided with a web server executing within a secure element of the mobile phone. The web server may be provided as a physical embodiment a software embodiment or any combination thereof and may be associated with a near field communication unit or the secure element of the mobile phone. Executing within the secure element of the mobile phone allows the web server direct access to the data stored on the secure element while keeping the data secure from outside access. This arrangement may give the mobile phone the ability to store secure information e.g. credit card information within the mobile phone and to then provide the secure information to the web browser of the mobile phone. The web browser of the mobile phone may then pass the secure information along to a website so that the user of the mobile phone may make a purchase from the website using their stored credit card information in a way that both simplifies their transaction and concurrently protects the security of their sensitive information. This scenario may be facilitated by configuring the mobile phone so that access to the web server is provided to the onboard web browser. Access to the onboard web server by any other entity is inhibited. The web server may be configured to only allow access to the onboard web browser blocking access attempts from other internet protocol IP addresses. Since the web server resides on the secure element the configuration data for the web server also reside on the secure element maintaining the security of the configuration data. Restricting access to the web server to other entities prevents outside access to the data on the secure element and preserves the integrity of the secure element data. This may promote the security of the user s sensitive information yet may also promote easy access by the mobile phone user. Secure information may be stored within a secure element and or a trusted security zone of the mobile phone in order to restrict access to the secure information such as credit card information electronic tickets or personal medical information.

As used herein the term secure element may be used to describe for example a tamper proof chip capable of accepting embedded applications or applets with an appropriate level of security. In near field communication NFC architecture the secure element may embed contactless and or may be connected to the near field communication chip in a way that permits it to act as a contactless front end. The secure element may be implemented via various form factors including directly embedded in a mobile phone or a chip or chipset thereof.

In an embodiment a trusted security zone provides chipsets with a hardware root of trust a secure execution environment for applications and secure access to peripherals. A hardware root of trust means the chipset should only execute programs intended by the device manufacturer or vendor and resists software and physical attacks and therefore remains trusted to provide the intended level of security. The chipset architecture is designed to promote a programmable environment that allows the confidentiality and integrity of assets to be protected from specific attacks. Trusted security zone capabilities are becoming mainstream features in mobile device chipsets. Providing the trusted security zone in the main mobile device chipset and protecting the hardware root of trust removes the need for separate secure hardware to authenticate the device or user. To ensure the integrity of the applications requiring trusted data such as a mobile financial services application the trusted security zone also provides the secure execution environment where only trusted applications can operate safe from attacks. Security is further promoted by restricting access of non trusted applications to peripherals such as data inputs and data outputs while a trusted application is running in the secure execution environment.

A complete Trusted Execution Environment TEE may be implemented through the use of the trusted security zone hardware and software architecture. The Trusted Execution Environment is an execution environment that is parallel to the execution environment of the main mobile device operating system. Through standardization of application programming interfaces APIs the Trusted Execution Environment becomes a place to which scalable deployment of secure services can be targeted. A device which has a chipset that has a Trusted Execution Environment on it may exist in a trusted services environment where devices in the trusted services environment are trusted and protected against attacks. The Trusted Execution Environment can be implemented on mobile phones and tablets as well as extending to other trusted devices such as sensors medical devices point of sale terminals industrial automation handheld terminals automotive etc.

The trusted security zone may be implemented by partitioning all of the hardware and software resources of the mobile device into two partitions a secure partition and a normal partition. In some contexts the secure partition may be referred to as a secure world or a secure execution world and the normal partition may be referred to as a non secure world or a non secure execution world. Placing sensitive resources in the secure partition can protect against possible attacks on those resources. For example resources such as trusted software applications may run in the secure partition and have access to hardware peripherals such as a touchscreen or a secure location in memory. Less secure peripherals such as wireless radios may be disabled completely while the secure partition is being accessed while other peripherals may only be accessed from the secure partition. While the secure partition is being accessed through the Trusted Execution environment the main mobile operating system in the normal partition is suspended and applications in the normal partition are prevented from accessing the secure peripherals and data. This prevents corrupted applications or malware applications from breaking the trust of the device.

The trusted security zone may be implemented by partitioning the hardware and software resources to exist in a secure subsystem which is not accessible to components outside the secure subsystem. The trusted security zone is built into the processor architecture through hardware logic present in the trusted security zone which enables a perimeter boundary between the secure partition and the normal partition. Software architecture to support the secure partition may be provided through a dedicated secure kernel running trusted applications. Trusted applications are independent secure applications which can be accessed by normal applications through an application programming interface in the Trusted Execution Environment on a chipset that utilizes the trusted security zone.

In an embodiment the normal partition applications may run on a first virtual processor and the secure partition applications run on a second virtual processor. Both virtual processors may run on a single physical processor executing in a time sliced fashion removing the need for a dedicated physical security processor. Time sliced execution comprises switching contexts between the two virtual processors to share processor resources based on tightly controlled mechanisms such as secure software instructions or hardware exceptions. The context of the currently running virtual processor is saved the context of the virtual processor being switched to is restored and processing is restarted in the restored virtual processor. Time sliced execution protects the trusted security zone by stopping the execution of the normal partition while the secure partition is executing.

The two virtual processors may context switch via a processor mode called monitor mode when changing the currently running virtual processor. The mechanisms by which the processor can enter monitor mode from the normal partition are tightly controlled. The entry to monitor mode can be triggered by software executing a dedicated instruction the Secure Monitor Call SMC instruction or by a subset of the hardware exception mechanisms such as hardware interrupts which can be configured to cause the processor to switch into monitor mode. The software that executes within monitor mode then saves the context of the running virtual processor and switches to the secure virtual processor. The trusted security zone runs a separate operating system that is not accessible to the mobile device users. For security purposes the trusted security zone is not open to users for installing applications which means users do not have access to install applications in the trusted security zone. This prevents corrupted applications or malware applications from executing powerful instructions reserved to the trusted security zone and thus preserves the trust of the device. The security of the system is achieved at least in part by partitioning the hardware and software resources of the mobile phone so they exist in one of two partitions the secure partition for the security subsystem and the normal partition for everything else. Placing the trusted security zone in the secure partition and restricting access from the normal partition protects against software and basic hardware attacks. Hardware logic ensures that no secure partition resources can be accessed by the normal partition components or applications. A dedicated secure partition operating system runs in a virtual processor separate from the normal partition operating system that likewise executes in its own virtual processor. Users may install applications on the mobile device which may execute in the normal partition operating system described above. The trusted security zone runs a separate operating system for the secure partition that is installed by the mobile device manufacturer or vendor and users are not able to install new applications in or alter the contents of the trusted security zone.

Turning now to a system is illustrated. In an embodiment system comprises a mobile handheld device a base transceiver station BTS a network such as the Internet an access point a website a point of sale device and an enterprise cloud service . While illustrated as a mobile phone mobile device may also be a wireless handset a pager a personal digital assistant PDA a gaming device or a media player. For the sake of discussion mobile handheld device will hereinafter be referred to as mobile phone with the understanding that it may embody any form of device suitable for the purposes described in the present disclosure.

BTS may provide for transmitting and receiving radio signals via equipment such as antennas transceivers and or equipment for encrypting and or decrypting communications between entities and or locations. BTS may have several transceivers which allow it to serve multiple frequencies and different sectors of a communications cell. BTS is generally controlled by a base station control function which is implemented as a discrete unit or incorporated into a transceiver. The functions of BTS may vary depending on the cellular technology used and the cellular telephone provider but the function of receiving retransmitting signals as in mobile phone calls and or messages is generally the same across various forms of BTS . BTS and similar systems are generally equipped with radios that are able to modulate frequencies for Code Division Multiple Access CDMA communication signals Global System for Mobile communication signals such as GSM GSM 2G GSMK 8 PSK Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX or Long Term Evolution LTE communication signals as appropriate for a given network. Mobile phone may be configured to connect wirelessly to a network such as network via for example BTS or any combination of BTS s as might be appropriate in a given circumstance. Mobile phone may thereby be availed of access to network and also to a website such as website a cloud service such as enterprise cloud service and or an access point such as access point each of which may be communicatively coupled to network in any suitable manner.

System further comprises a point of sale terminal POS . The point of sale terminal may be a wireless terminal for conducting contactless transactions such as merchandise purchases or the like. In an embodiment the mobile phone may be configured to transact a payment at the point of sale terminal at a convenience store. A user of mobile phone may enter a convenience store select an item and purchase the item by scanning the item at the point of sale terminal and then securely transmitting payment information such as credit card information from mobile phone to the point of sale terminal . This secure transmission may take place with the aid of secure hardware firmware and or software of the mobile phone as will be discussed in further detail below. In this manner the mobile phone user may complete the entire transaction without the assistance of an agent of the convenience store. Alternatively an agent of the convenience store may scan the item or otherwise assist in the purchase of the item as may be appropriate for a given situation.

In an embodiment a web server resides within the secure element of the mobile access terminal and the web server comprises software and or hardware. The secure element offers security based on hardware and or software architecture. Placing the web server inside the secure element and configuring the web server to respond to specific components and requests protects the web server and the information it accesses from being compromised.

In an embodiment the web server is operable to interact with the web browser to share data from the secure element. The web server is configured to accept requests from the web browser and respond to the requests with data stored in the secure element. For example the web server may respond to requests from the web browser by sending credentials from the secure element to the website to complete a purchase or transaction. This provides a mechanism for utilizing the mobile phone to facilitate purchases over the Internet with the same security and using the same financial data as is used for transactions utilizing near field communications with a point of sale device .

In an embodiment a call session control function CSCF resides on the core of the secure element. The call session control function is a central component to signaling and control within the IP Multimedia Subsystem IMS network. The IP Multimedia Subsystem is a framework for delivering Internet services over mobile networks to aid the access of multimedia and voice applications from the mobile phone . Providing the call session control function on the core of the secure element may allow the mobile phone to securely support accessing multimedia applications without the need to access the mobile network.

In an embodiment the secure element comprises dedicated embedded hardware in the mobile access terminal. The secure element may reside on a specialized embedded hardware semiconductor chip that is designed to thwart attempts to reverse engineer the secure element or to physically slice and examine the secure element under a microscope. The secure element is a combination of hardware firmware and or software that enables secure storage and usage of credentials and data for electronic payments authentication and other services. This secure storage is kept private from components outside of the secure element to provide enhanced security to data kept in the private space.

In an embodiment the secure element further comprises a kernel of an operating system. The kernel is the main component of the operating system managing the communication between hardware and software components of the computer. Implementing an operating system and kernel on the secure element may isolate the data on the secure element and enhance the security by further restricting access to the hardware and data from other components of the mobile phone .

Turning now to further details of the mobile phone are described. In an embodiment the mobile phone comprises an enterprise application a wallet application a trusted security zone a near field communication unit a web browser an over the air OTA proxy an application programming layer a web server a secure element . The wallet application may be a mobile payment system that allows a user to store credit card information loyalty card information and gift card information and such for conducting payment transactions via the mobile phone as discussed above with reference to a point of sale purchase. The enterprise application may interface with the enterprise cloud service to retrieve and store secure data. The wallet application may assist in making secure payments by operating the mobile phone in such a way that payment information e.g. credit card information is communicated to a terminal such as the point of sale terminal or a website such as the website . In addition or alternatively the near field communication unit may likewise be involved in the process of securely transmitting information involved in transactions with third party entities or such.

In an embodiment a trusted service manager wishing to initialize the secure element may send a short message to the mobile phone to set up the secure element . The message is passed to the OTA proxy the OTA proxy authenticates itself and sends a master key to the trusted services manager. The trusted services manager changes the key in the secure element . At this point the secure element is then configured for use.

In an embodiment a user of mobile phone may employ web browser to navigate to a vendor website such as for example Amazon.com. The user may identify a book or other item that they would like to purchase and may add the item to an online shopping cart. When the user has finished selecting items they wish to purchase they may complete the purchase by conducting an electronic transaction via the website e.g. checking out . For example the user may navigate to a location on the website where they may view the items in their online shopping cart add shipping information determine shipping rates and the like. The user may then complete the transaction by providing payment in the form of credit or debit card information which may be transmitted electronically by the mobile phone .

In an embodiment mobile phone may securely store the user s credit card information in for example the secure element and or the trusted security zone . When prompted the Amazon.com website may request that the web browser provide payment information details e.g. credit card number credit card holder s name as it appears on the credit card credit card expiration date billing address and so on . The web browser may in turn request the user s credit card information from the web server . When the web server receives the request from the web browser the web server may recognize the web browser and may provide the requested information to the web browser .

In an embodiment if a request for secure information is received by the web server from any source other than from the web browser the onboard web browser that resides within the mobile phone the request may be denied by the web server . In this manner by only sharing sensitive information with the web browser the security of the sensitive information may be preserved and protected from accidental or malicious sharing of said information. This scenario may facilitate transactions via a mobile device such as the mobile phone in such a manner that it simplifies conducting secure transactions with the mobile phone and concurrently minimizes the concern that sensitive information may be compromised.

In an embodiment the transaction described above may be conducted between the web browser and the web server or may alternatively include any or all of the trusted security zone and the wallet app . For example the secure information described above may be stored permanently or temporarily in the trusted security zone the wallet app the web server the secure element or a combination of any of these portions of the mobile phone . In addition or alternatively portions of the secure information may be parceled out to more than one of the trusted security zone the wallet app and or the web server and may then be recombined when the information is requested by for example a vendor website that is attempting to complete a transaction with the user of the mobile phone . By storing credit card information in one or more of these secure locations the credit card information may be kept safe yet may be made available for conducting such transactions.

In an embodiment the web server resides within one or more of the secure element and the trusted security zone of the mobile access terminal and the web server comprises one or more of software and hardware. The trusted security zone and the secure element offer security based on hardware and software architecture. Placing the web server inside these secure areas and configuring the web server to respond to specific components and requests protects the web server and the information it accesses from being compromised.

In an embodiment the web server is operable to interact with the web browser to share data from one or more of the secure element and the trusted security zone . The web server is configured to accept requests from the web browser and respond to the requests with data stored in the trusted security zone the secure element or both depending on the location and secure data access granted to the web server . In an embodiment the communication between the secure element and the components may pass through the application programming layer .

In an embodiment the web server resides within the trusted security zone of the mobile phone and the web server enables communication using the Hypertext Transfer Protocol Secure HTTPS protocol. Hypertext Transfer Protocol Secure is a combination of Hypertext Transfer Protocol with Secure Sockets Layer SSL Transport Layer Security TSL providing encrypted and secure communication with the web server . Implementing Hypertext Transfer Protocol Secure allows encryption of the data being accessed by the web server providing greater security when the data leaves the trusted security zone and passed to the web browser .

In an embodiment the mobile phone further comprises an enterprise application communicating with an enterprise cloud service where the enterprise application accesses the web server to retrieve a certificate and a secret key stored in the trusted security zone and where the certificate and secret key are used to confirm the identity of the mobile access terminal to the enterprise cloud service . A certificate is an electronic document which uses a digital signature to bind a security key with an identity. A secret key is a private security key that is used to generate the certificate and to decrypt the information sent by the enterprise application to the enterprise cloud service . The use of the certificate and the secret key ensures the identity of the mobile phone and allows the enterprise cloud service to securely receive and respond to requests from the enterprise application .

Turning now to a method is illustrated. At step method begins e.g. starts . At step secure e.g. sensitive information may be stored within one or more location in mobile phone . As described in greater detail above sensitive information such as credit debit card information may be securely stored in any one or more of the wallet app the trusted security zone the web server and or the secure element . In an embodiment sensitive information may be accessed by the web server which may then share the sensitive information with the web browser when appropriate. This internal trust relationship among portions of the mobile phone may facilitate secure maintenance and transmittal of the user of the mobile phone in a way that allows for simplified use of the sensitive information while maintaining the security thereof.

At step the user of mobile phone may initiate a transaction with another system. For example a user may navigate to a website of a vendor in order to procure goods or services therefrom. The user may choose the particular goods or services they want by for example selecting an item from an assortment of items on a web page. Once they have selected the item or items they want they may select an option to check out. At step the web browser may notify the web server that information of the user s credit card is to be shared with the vendor s website. The web server may have stored the required information in the mobile phone from any one or more of the wallet app the trusted security zone and or the secure element . At step when in the checkout phase of the transaction the user may be requested to input payment information such as credit card information in order to complete the transaction. When prompted the user may direct mobile phone to send the user s secure information to the website. By doing this the user may be spared the steps of finding their credit card and filling in the credit card account number expiration date name as it appears on the card card security value CSV number and any other such information useful to successfully complete the payment phase of the transaction.

In an embodiment the web server resides within one or more of a secure element of the mobile phone and a trusted security zone of the mobile phone . The secure element of the mobile phone may be an embedded chip built into the hardware architecture of the mobile phone . The trusted security zone may be tightly integrated with the processor in a system wide approach to security. The trusted security zone and the secure element offer security based on hardware and software architecture. Placing the web server inside these secure areas and configuring the web server to respond to specific components and requests protects the web server and the information it accesses from being compromised.

In an embodiment the web server is operable to interface with the web browser to share data from one or more of the secure element and the trusted security zone . The web server is configured to accept requests from the web browser and respond to the requests with data stored in the trusted security zone the secure element or both depending on the location and secure data access granted to the web server . For example the user may have credit card information stored in the trusted security zone and or the secure element . When the user wants to execute a purchase from a web site the web browser sends a request to the web server to retrieve the credit card information from the trusted security zone or the secure element and send it to the web site to complete the transaction.

In an embodiment the method further comprises a call session control function residing on the core of the secure element. The call session control function is a central component to signaling and control within the IP Multimedia Subsystem IMS network. The IP Multimedia Subsystem is a framework for delivering Internet services over mobile networks to aid the access of multimedia and voice applications from the mobile phone . Providing the call session control function on the core of the secure element may allow the mobile phone to securely support accessing multimedia applications without the need to access the mobile network.

In an embodiment the trusted security zone is built into the mobile phone processor architecture. The trusted security zone is implemented at least in part by partitioning the hardware and software resources of the mobile access terminal. The trusted security zone is built into the processor architecture through hardware logic present in the trusted security zone which enables a perimeter boundary between a secure partition and a normal partition. This secure partition contains the trusted security zone and is kept private from components outside of the trusted security zone to provide enhanced security to data kept in the secure partition.

In an embodiment the secure user data is stored in the trusted security zone of the mobile phone and the stored secure user data comprises a certificate and a secret key for use by an enterprise application on the mobile phone to verify the identity of the device to an enterprise cloud service . The use of the certificate and the secret key ensures the identity of the mobile phone and allows the enterprise cloud service to securely receive and respond to requests from the enterprise application .

In an embodiment the enterprise application accesses the web server using the Hypertext Transfer Protocol Secure HTTPS protocol to create a secure tunnel to retrieve the certificate and a secret key. Implementing the Hypertext Transfer Protocol Secure protocol ensures the data is transferred through an encrypted channel when the enterprise application retrieves the certificate and the secret key to interface with the enterprise cloud service .

The DSP or some other form of controller or central processing unit operates to control the various components of the mobile device in accordance with embedded software or firmware stored in memory or stored in memory contained within the DSP itself. In addition to the embedded software or firmware the DSP may execute other applications stored in the memory or made available via information carrier media such as portable data storage media like the removable memory card or via wired or wireless network communications. The application software may comprise a compiled set of machine readable instructions that configure the DSP to provide the desired functionality or the application software may be high level software instructions to be processed by an interpreter or compiler to indirectly configure the DSP .

The DSP may communicate with a wireless network via the analog baseband processing unit . In some embodiments the communication may provide Internet connectivity enabling a user to gain access to content on the Internet and to send and receive e mail or text messages. The input output interface interconnects the DSP and various memories and interfaces. The memory and the removable memory card may provide software and data to configure the operation of the DSP . Among the interfaces may be the USB port and the infrared port . The USB port may enable the mobile device to function as a peripheral device to exchange information with a personal computer or other computer system. The infrared port and other optional ports such as a Bluetooth interface or an IEEE 802.11 compliant wireless interface may enable the mobile device to communicate wirelessly with other nearby handsets and or wireless base stations.

The keypad couples to the DSP via the interface to provide one mechanism for the user to make selections enter information and otherwise provide input to the mobile device . Another input mechanism may be the touch screen LCD which may also display text and or graphics to the user. The touch screen LCD controller couples the DSP to the touch screen LCD . The GPS receiver is coupled to the DSP to decode global positioning system signals thereby enabling the mobile device to determine its position.

It is understood that by programming and or loading executable instructions onto the computer system at least one of the CPU the RAM and the ROM are changed transforming the computer system in part into a particular machine or apparatus having the novel functionality taught by the present disclosure. It is fundamental to the electrical engineering and software engineering arts that functionality that can be implemented by loading executable software into a computer can be converted to a hardware implementation by well known design rules. Decisions between implementing a concept in software versus hardware typically hinge on considerations of stability of the design and numbers of units to be produced rather than any issues involved in translating from the software domain to the hardware domain. Generally a design that is still subject to frequent change may be preferred to be implemented in software because re spinning a hardware implementation is more expensive than re spinning a software design. Generally a design that is stable that will be produced in large volume may be preferred to be implemented in hardware for example in an application specific integrated circuit ASIC because for large production runs the hardware implementation may be less expensive than the software implementation. Often a design may be developed and tested in a software form and later transformed by well known design rules to an equivalent hardware implementation in an application specific integrated circuit that hardwires the instructions of the software. In the same manner as a machine controlled by a new ASIC is a particular machine or apparatus likewise a computer that has been programmed and or loaded with executable instructions may be viewed as a particular machine or apparatus.

The secondary storage is typically comprised of one or more disk drives or tape drives and is used for non volatile storage of data and as an over flow data storage device if RAM is not large enough to hold all working data. Secondary storage may be used to store programs which are loaded into RAM when such programs are selected for execution. The ROM is used to store instructions and perhaps data which are read during program execution. ROM is a non volatile memory device which typically has a small memory capacity relative to the larger memory capacity of secondary storage . The RAM is used to store volatile data and perhaps to store instructions. Access to both ROM and RAM is typically faster than to secondary storage . The secondary storage the RAM and or the ROM may be referred to in some contexts as computer readable storage media and or non transitory computer readable media.

I O devices may include printers video monitors liquid crystal displays LCDs touch screen displays keyboards keypads switches dials mice track balls voice recognizers card readers paper tape readers or other well known input devices.

The network connectivity devices may take the form of modems modem banks Ethernet cards universal serial bus USB interface cards serial interfaces token ring cards fiber distributed data interface FDDI cards wireless local area network WLAN cards radio transceiver cards such as code division multiple access CDMA global system for mobile communications GSM long term evolution LTE worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX and or other air interface protocol radio transceiver cards and other well known network devices. These network connectivity devices may enable the processor to communicate with the Internet or one or more intranets. With such a network connection it is contemplated that the processor might receive information from the network or might output information to the network in the course of performing the above described method steps. Such information which is often represented as a sequence of instructions to be executed using processor may be received from and outputted to the network for example in the form of a computer data signal embodied in a carrier wave.

Such information which may include data or instructions to be executed using processor for example may be received from and outputted to the network for example in the form of a computer data baseband signal or signal embodied in a carrier wave. The baseband signal or signal embedded in the carrier wave or other types of signals currently used or hereafter developed may be generated according to several methods well known to one skilled in the art. The baseband signal and or signal embedded in the carrier wave may be referred to in some contexts as a transitory signal.

The processor executes instructions codes computer programs scripts which it accesses from hard disk floppy disk optical disk these various disk based systems may all be considered secondary storage ROM RAM or the network connectivity devices . While only one processor is shown multiple processors may be present. Thus while instructions may be discussed as executed by a processor the instructions may be executed simultaneously serially or otherwise executed by one or multiple processors. Instructions codes computer programs scripts and or data that may be accessed from the secondary storage for example hard drives floppy disks optical disks and or other device the ROM and or the RAM may be referred to in some contexts as non transitory instructions and or non transitory information.

In an embodiment the computer system may comprise two or more computers in communication with each other that collaborate to perform a task. For example but not by way of limitation an application may be partitioned in such a way as to permit concurrent and or parallel processing of the instructions of the application. Alternatively the data processed by the application may be partitioned in such a way as to permit concurrent and or parallel processing of different portions of a data set by the two or more computers. In an embodiment virtualization software may be employed by the computer system to provide the functionality of a number of servers that is not directly bound to the number of computers in the computer system . For example virtualization software may provide twenty virtual servers on four physical computers. In an embodiment the functionality disclosed above may be provided by executing the application and or applications in a cloud computing environment. Cloud computing may comprise providing computing services via a network connection using dynamically scalable computing resources. Cloud computing may be supported at least in part by virtualization software. A cloud computing environment may be established by an enterprise and or may be hired on an as needed basis from a third party provider. Some cloud computing environments may comprise cloud computing resources owned and operated by the enterprise as well as cloud computing resources hired and or leased from a third party provider.

In an embodiment some or all of the functionality disclosed above may be provided as a computer program product. The computer program product may comprise one or more computer readable storage medium having computer usable program code embodied therein to implement the functionality disclosed above. The computer program product may comprise data structures executable instructions and other computer usable program code. The computer program product may be embodied in removable computer storage media and or non removable computer storage media. The removable computer readable storage medium may comprise without limitation a paper tape a magnetic tape magnetic disk an optical disk a solid state memory chip for example analog magnetic tape compact disk read only memory CD ROM disks floppy disks jump drives digital cards multimedia cards and others. The computer program product may be suitable for loading by the computer system at least portions of the contents of the computer program product to the secondary storage to the ROM to the RAM and or to other non volatile memory and volatile memory of the computer system . The processor may process the executable instructions and or data structures in part by directly accessing the computer program product for example by reading from a CD ROM disk inserted into a disk drive peripheral of the computer system . Alternatively the processor may process the executable instructions and or data structures by remotely accessing the computer program product for example by downloading the executable instructions and or data structures from a remote server through the network connectivity devices . The computer program product may comprise instructions that promote the loading and or copying of data data structures files and or executable instructions to the secondary storage to the ROM to the RAM and or to other non volatile memory and volatile memory of the computer system .

In some contexts the secondary storage the ROM and the RAM may be referred to as a non transitory computer readable medium or a computer readable storage media. A dynamic RAM embodiment of the RAM likewise may be referred to as a non transitory computer readable medium in that while the dynamic RAM receives electrical power and is operated in accordance with its design for example during a period of time during which the computer is turned on and operational the dynamic RAM stores information that is written to it. Similarly the processor may comprise an internal RAM an internal ROM a cache memory and or other internal non transitory storage blocks sections or components that may be referred to in some contexts as non transitory computer readable media or computer readable storage media.

While several embodiments have been provided in the present disclosure it should be understood that the disclosed systems and methods may be embodied in many other specific forms without departing from the spirit or scope of the present disclosure. The present examples are to be considered as illustrative and not restrictive and the intention is not to be limited to the details given herein. For example the various elements or components may be combined or integrated in another system or certain features may be omitted or not implemented.

Also techniques systems subsystems and methods described and illustrated in the various embodiments as discrete or separate may be combined or integrated with other systems modules techniques or methods without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Other items shown or discussed as directly coupled or communicating with each other may be indirectly coupled or communicating through some interface device or intermediate component whether electrically mechanically or otherwise. Other examples of changes substitutions and alterations are ascertainable by one skilled in the art and could be made without departing from the spirit and scope disclosed herein.

