---

title: Method, system, and graphical user interface for providing personalized recommendations of popular search queries
abstract: A method, system, and graphical user interface for providing personalized recommendations of popular search queries are disclosed. One aspect of the invention involves a graphical user interface on a computer that includes a plurality of queries recommended by a search engine for a computer user. The plurality of queries are determined by the search engine based on Internet usage data for the computer user and submission popularity data for search queries submitted by a plurality of users.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09443022&OS=09443022&RS=09443022
owner: GOOGLE INC.
number: 09443022
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120119
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 11 447 575 filed Jun. 5 2006 now abandoned which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

This application is related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 097 884 filed Mar. 31 2005 entitled Systems and Methods for Providing Subscription Based Personalization which application is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

The disclosed embodiments relate generally to search engines. More particularly the disclosed embodiments relate to methods systems and user interfaces for providing personalized recommendations of popular search queries.

Search engines typically provide a source of indexed documents from the Internet or an intranet that can be rapidly scanned in response to a search query submitted by a user. As the number of documents accessible via the Internet grows the number of documents that match a particular query may also increase. However not every document matching the query is likely to be equally important from a user s perspective. A user may be overwhelmed by an enormous number of documents returned by a search engine unless the documents are ordered based on their relevance to the user s query. One way to order documents is the PageRank algorithm more fully described in the article The Anatomy of a Large Scale Hypertextual Search Engine by S. Brin and L. Page 7International World Wide Web Conference Brisbane Australia and U.S. Pat. No. 6 285 999 both of which are hereby incorporated by reference as background information.

In addition to responding to search queries search engines can also proactively identify and recommend popular queries. The recommendation techniques developed to date however have only limited utility because they often recommend queries that are not of interest to the user.

Thus it would be highly desirable to find new more efficient and accurate ways to provide recommendations of popular search queries.

The present invention overcomes the problem described above by providing personalized recommendations of popular search queries.

One aspect of the invention involves a computer implemented method in which a search engine receives a plurality of search queries submitted by a plurality of users determines submission popularity data for each distinct query in the plurality of search queries receives Internet usage data for a computer user determines one or more queries to recommend to the computer user that meet predefined criteria wherein the predefined criteria are based on the Internet usage data for the computer user and the submission popularity data for the search queries submitted by the plurality of users and sends links corresponding to at least some of the determined queries to a computer associated with the computer user for display.

Another aspect of the invention involves a computer implemented method in which a client computer sends Internet usage data for a computer user to a search engine. The search engine receives a plurality of search queries submitted by a plurality of users determines submission popularity data for each distinct query in the plurality of search queries receives the Internet usage data for the computer user and determines one or more queries to recommend to the computer user that meet predefined criteria wherein the predefined criteria are based on the Internet usage data for the computer user and the submission popularity data for the search queries submitted by the plurality of users. The client computer receives links corresponding to at least some of the determined queries from the search engine and displays at least some of the received links.

Another aspect of the invention involves a graphical user interface on a client computer that includes a plurality of links recommended by a search engine for a computer user. The plurality of queries are determined by the search engine based on Internet usage data for the computer user and submission popularity data for search queries submitted by a plurality of users.

Another aspect of the invention involves a search engine that is configured to receive a plurality of search queries submitted by a plurality of users determine submission popularity data for each distinct query in the plurality of search queries receive Internet usage data for a computer user determine one or more queries to recommend to the computer user that meet predefined criteria wherein the predefined criteria are based on the Internet usage data for the computer user and the submission popularity data for the search queries submitted by the plurality of users and send links corresponding to at least some of the determined queries to a computer associated with the computer user for display.

Another aspect of the invention involves a client computer that is configured to send Internet usage data for a computer user to a search engine. The search engine receives a plurality of search queries submitted by a plurality of users determines submission popularity data for each distinct query in the plurality of search queries receives the Internet usage data for the computer user and determines one or more queries to recommend to the computer user that meet predefined criteria wherein the predefined criteria are based on the Internet usage data for the computer user and the submission popularity data for the search queries submitted by the plurality of users. The client computer is configured to receive links corresponding to at least some of the determined queries from the search engine and display at least some of the received links.

Another aspect of the invention involves a computer program product that includes a computer readable storage medium and a computer program mechanism embedded therein. The computer program mechanism includes instructions which when executed by a search engine cause the search engine to receive a plurality of search queries submitted by a plurality of users determine submission popularity data for each distinct query in the plurality of search queries receive Internet usage data for a computer user determine one or more queries to recommend to the computer user that meet predefined criteria wherein the predefined criteria are based on the Internet usage data for the computer user and the submission popularity data for the search queries submitted by the plurality of users and send links corresponding to at least some of the determined queries to a computer associated with the computer user for display.

Another aspect of the invention involves a computer program product that includes a computer readable storage medium and a computer program mechanism embedded therein. The computer program mechanism includes instructions which when executed by a client computer cause the client computer to send Internet usage data for a computer user to a search engine. The search engine receives a plurality of search queries submitted by a plurality of users determines submission popularity data for each distinct query in the plurality of search queries receives the Internet usage data for the computer user and determines one or more queries to recommend to the computer user that meet predefined criteria wherein the predefined criteria are based on the Internet usage data for the computer user and the submission popularity data for the search queries submitted by the plurality of users. The computer program mechanism also includes instructions which when executed by the client computer cause the client computer to receive links corresponding to at least some of the determined queries from the search engine and display at least some of the received links.

Another aspect of the invention involves a search engine with means for receiving a plurality of search queries submitted by a plurality of users means for determining submission popularity data for each distinct query in the plurality of search queries means for receiving Internet usage data for a computer user means for determining one or more queries to recommend to the computer user that meet predefined criteria wherein the predefined criteria are based on the Internet usage data for the computer user and the submission popularity data for the search queries submitted by the plurality of users and means for sending links corresponding to at least some of the determined queries to a computer associated with the computer user for display.

Another aspect of the invention involves a client computer with means for sending Internet usage data for a computer user to a search engine. The search engine receives a plurality of search queries submitted by a plurality of users determines submission popularity data for each distinct query in the plurality of search queries receives the Internet usage data for the computer user and determines one or more queries to recommend to the computer user that meet predefined criteria wherein the predefined criteria are based on the Internet usage data for the computer user and the submission popularity data for the search queries submitted by the plurality of users. The client computer also has means for receiving links corresponding to at least some of the determined queries from the search engine and means for displaying at least some of the received links.

Methods systems and user interfaces for providing personalized recommendations of popular search queries are described. Reference will be made to certain embodiments of the invention examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying drawings. While the invention will be described in conjunction with the embodiments it will be understood that it is not intended to limit the invention to these particular embodiments alone. On the contrary the invention is intended to cover alternatives modifications and equivalents that are within the spirit and scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims.

Moreover in the following description numerous specific details are set forth to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. However it will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art that the invention may be practiced without these particular details. In other instances methods procedures components and networks that are well known to those of ordinary skill in the art are not described in detail to avoid obscuring aspects of the present invention.

Search engine generates search results in response to search queries from one or more clients and also provides personalized recommendations of popular search queries. It should be appreciated that the layout of the search engine system is merely exemplary and may take on any other suitable layout or configuration. The search engine system is used to search an index of documents such as billions of web pages or other documents indexed by modern search engines.

Note that the search engine system can be used as an Internet search engine for locating documents on the WWW and or as an intranet search engine for locating documents stored on servers or other hosts within an intranet. In some embodiments the search engine system utilizes an index of the full text of a set of documents. However the methodology described herein is also applicable to implementations where only portions of documents such as titles and abstracts are stored in a database e.g. of the search engine system .

The search engine system may include multiple data centers each housing a backend. The data centers are generally widely dispersed from one another such as across the continental United States. Search queries submitted by users at one of the clients to the search engine system are routed to an appropriate backend as part of the Domain Name System DNS based on current load geographic locality and or whether that data center is operating.

Each backend preferably includes multiple query servers such as query server coupled to a communications network via a network communication module . The communications network may be the Internet but may also be any local area network LAN and or wide area network WAN . In some embodiments each query server is a Web server that receives search query requests and delivers search results and personalized recommendations of popular search queries in the form of web pages or feeds via HTTP XML RSS or similar protocols. Alternatively if the query server is used within an intranet it may be an intranet server. In essence the query servers such as query server are configured to control the search and recommendation processes including searching a document index analyzing and formatting the search results.

The query server typically includes a network communications module a query receipt processing and response module a user information processing module and a history module all interconnected. The network communications module connects the query server to the communication network and enables the receipt of communications from the communication network and the provision of communications to the communication network bound for the client or other destinations. The query receipt processing and response module is primarily responsible for receiving search queries processing them and returning responses and personalized recommendations of popular search queries to the client via the network communications module . In some embodiments the history module maintains a record of queries submitted by users. In some embodiments the history module also maintains a record of search results selected by the users for viewing or downloading sometimes called click through information. The click through information may include statistical information including the number of times that each search result was clicked through and or the number of times each search result was viewed by users for more than a threshold period of time i.e. the number of times the users clicked through each search result without navigating away from the resulting page or document in less than the threshold period of time .

The user information processing module assists in accessing updating and modifying the user information database . The user information database stores various information about the user s activities in a user record described below . In addition the user information database may store derived information about the user based on the user s activities. In some embodiments the user information database stores user profiles a portion of which are the derived information. The other databases optionally include other databases with which the various modules in query server may interact such as a message database electronic or otherwise and user created document databases e.g. documents created from word processing programs spreadsheet programs or other various applications .

The query processing controller is connected to an inverse document index a document database and a query cache . The cache is used to temporarily store search queries and search results and is used to serve search results for queries submitted multiple times e.g. by multiple users . The inverse document index and document database are sometimes collectively called the document database. In some embodiments searching the document database means searching the inverse document index to identify documents matching a specified search query or term.

Search rank values for the documents in the search results are conveyed to the query processing controller and or the query server and are used to construct various lists such as a list of ordered search results a personalized list of recommended web pages or a list of new results for one or more prior searches by a user. Once the query processing controller constructs the list the query processing controller may transmit to the document database a request for snippets of an appropriate subset of the documents in the list. For example the query processing controller may request snippets for the first fifteen or so of the documents in the list. In some embodiments the document database constructs snippets based on the search query and returns the snippets to the query processing controller . The query processing controller then returns a list of located documents with their associated links i.e. hyperlinks and snippets back to the query server . In some embodiments the snippets are stored in the cache server along with the search results. As a result in these embodiments the query processing controller may only request snippets for documents if any for which it is unable to obtain valid cached snippets from the cache server .

In some embodiments fewer and or additional modules functions or databases are included in the search engine . The modules shown in as being part of search engine represent functions performed in an exemplary embodiment.

Although portrays discrete blocks the figure is intended more as a functional description of some embodiments of the invention rather than a structural description of the functional elements. One of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that an actual implementation might have the functional elements grouped or split among various components. For example the user information database may be part of the query server . In some embodiments the user information database may be implemented using one or more servers whose primary function is to store and process user information. Similarly the document database may be implemented on one or more servers whose primary purpose is to store various documents. In some embodiments the inverse document index and the document database are stored on the same server or set of servers. Moreover one or more of the blocks in may be implemented on one or more servers designed to provide the described functionality. Although the description herein refers to certain features implemented in the client and certain features implemented in the search system the embodiments of the invention are not limited to such distinctions. For example features described herein as being part of the search system could be implemented in whole or in part in the client and vice versa.

In some embodiments the query server includes the following elements or a subset of such elements a query receipt processing and response module for receiving and responding to search queries and for providing personalized recommendations of popular search queries and managing the processing of search queries by one or more query processing controllers such as query processing controller that are coupled to the query server a user information and processing module for accessing and modifying the user information database which includes one or more user records described in more detail in below and a history module for processing and handling requests for searching a user s online history e.g. the user s prior queries query result click throughs and visited URLs and for processing and storing query submission popularity data structures . In some embodiments the query server and or the user information database include additional modules.

Each of the above identified modules and applications in correspond to a set of instructions for performing a function described above. These modules i.e. sets of instructions need not be implemented as separate software programs procedures or modules and thus various subsets of these modules may be combined or otherwise re arranged in various embodiments. In some embodiments memories and may store a subset of the modules and data structures identified above. Furthermore memories and may store additional modules and data structures not described above.

Although show search engine and client as a number of discrete items are intended more as a functional description of the various features which may be present in search engine and client rather than as a structural schematic of the embodiments described herein. In practice and as recognized by those of ordinary skill in the art items shown separately could be combined and some items could be separated. For example some items shown separately in could be implemented on single servers and single items could be implemented by one or more servers. The actual number of servers in search engine and how features are allocated among them will vary from one implementation to another and may depend in part on the amount of data traffic that the system must handle during peak usage periods as well as during average usage periods.

In some embodiments one or more of the query events and one or more of the result click events include a query portion which includes zero or more query terms associated with the recorded event. In some embodiments the query portion indicates the query string to which the event is associated e.g. what query produced the results that the user clicked though . In some embodiments the query portion includes a pointer or identifier to the query event associated with the result click e.g. an eventID . In some embodiments the query portion may additionally identify a related query . For example the related query may be a query related to an initial query that contains a misspelling. In some instances is it more desirable to associate the event with the corrected query rather than the query containing the spelling mistake. In some embodiments the search system may generate related queries automatically based on the user s entered query.

In some embodiments one or more of the result click events and one or more of the browsing data include a contentID which identifies the content associated with the particular event. For a result click the contentID can represent the URL or URI Uniform Resource Identifier that has been clicked on by the user. For browsing event the contentID can be the content identifier used to identify the location of the browse event e.g. URL data location or other similar identifier . In some embodiments the contentID may be a document identifier that identifies a document in a document repository.

In some embodiments the event based data has a history score . An event s history score may be calculated in any of a number of different ways or combinations of ways. For example the history score may be a time based ranking value which may be periodically modified based on a length of time that has passed since the event was recorded. In some embodiments the value of the history score decreases as the time from the recordation increases. For example all the history scores in the event based data may be multiplied by a predetermined factor e.g. a value less than one such as 0.9 0.8 0.75 or 0.5 at predetermined times e.g. at a fixed time of each day or week so as to attenuate the history scores over time. In some embodiments event data having a time based ranking value below a threshold may be deleted. The values can be determined and re determined periodically at various points in time. In some cases removal of one or more events triggers a re determination of one or more derived values as described above. In some embodiments the history score is determined in response to a request instead of being determined during batch or off line processing.

In some embodiments a browsing event indicates a particular browsing event not associated with a query but instead with some other user activity e.g. user selection of a link in a web page or an email message or a word processing document . This other user activity can be identified in an information field . In some embodiments the information field stores ranking values associated with the event. Such ranking values can be system generated user created or user modified e.g. PageRank for URLs or a value assigned to the event by the user . Other examples of user activity include but are not limited to web browsing emailing instant messaging word processing participation in chat rooms software application execution and internet telephone calls.

In some embodiments derived data includes one or more information fields containing information derived from the event based data . For example in some embodiments the information field represents a user profile which is generated from one or more of the user s query events results click events and browsing events . For example by examining one or more of the various events a user profile may be created that includes one or more information fields indicating levels of interest in various topic categories e.g. a weighted set of Open Directory Project http dmoz.org topics . Alternately one or more information fields in the user record indicate topic categories associated with web pages or other documents visited by the user without any indication of weightings or levels of interest but only including topic categories which satisfy predefined criteria indicating at least a threshold level of user interest. In some embodiments the one or more information fields in the user record indicate websites associated with web pages or other documents visited by the user. In these embodiments the one or more information fields may optionally include weights or level of interest values for the identified websites alternately the website information in information fields may be restricted to websites which satisfy predefined criteria indicating at least a threshold level of user interest.

In some embodiments the derived data includes one or more pairs of a score associated with particular contentID . The score represents a derived score assigned to the content associated with the contentID e.g. a web page . The score can be based on one or more of a number of different factors. In some embodiments the score incorporates the number of times that a user has clicked on the contentID over a period of time which may include click throughs as a result of search queries and or browsing activities . In some embodiments the score incorporates a time duration that the user is estimated to have been looking at the content a stay time . In some embodiments the score incorporates a time since the user last viewed the content. In some embodiments the score may be modified based on user activities. In some embodiments the score is negatively affected if the user is presented the content in a series of search results but fails to select the content from the results page. In some embodiments the score is positively affected when the user visits locations or pages or clicks on results that are similar to the content. Similarity can be determined by a number of well known techniques e.g. text classifier ODP categorization link structure URL edit distance etc. . In some embodiments similarity can be determined by co citation analysis. In some embodiments a site is defined as a logically related group of pages or physically related pages such as pages belonging to the same URL or related URLs. In some embodiments the score incorporates the number of past queries of the user for which the content was presented e.g. a higher number of times certain content is presented to the user correlates with a higher score . In some embodiments the score incorporates the number of past queries of the user for which related content was presented e.g. a higher number of times related content is presented to the user as a result of the user s queries correlates with a higher score . In some embodiments derived data includes aggregate scores. For example the same query may be generated by the user multiple times and in some embodiments each occurrence will have a different eventID. Accordingly in some embodiments an aggregate score is maintained for events that occur multiple times. The aggregate score can be computed by any of a number of different methods. A reference to the multiple events and to the aggregate score can be maintained in the derived data .

Query server in search engine receives a plurality of search queries submitted by a plurality of users.

Query server determines submission popularity data for each distinct query in the plurality of search queries.

In some embodiments the submission popularity data see include the number of times the distinct query e.g. was received in a predefined time period e.g. . In some embodiments the submission popularity data include the change in the number of times the distinct query was received between two predefined time periods e.g. the difference in the number received in period 1 versus a prior period 2 . In some embodiments the submission popularity data include the percentage change in the number of times the distinct query was received between two predefined time periods e.g. the percentage change in the number received in period 1 versus period 2 .

In some embodiments for each distinct query in the plurality of search queries the query is associated with one or more web sites e.g. via website to query mapping . In some embodiments the associated web sites contain web pages that are selected by at least some of the plurality of users from among search results produced in response to the distinct query .

In some embodiments for each distinct query in the plurality of search queries the query is associated with one or more categories e.g. via category to query mapping . In some embodiments the associated categories contain i.e. are associated with web pages that are selected by at least some of the plurality of users from among search results produced in response to various search queries including the aforementioned distinct query . In some embodiments the associated categories contain web sites with web pages that are selected by at least some of the plurality of users from among search results produced in response to various search queries including the aforementioned distinct query .

In some embodiments for each distinct query in the plurality of search queries query server determines submission popularity data for the query and associates the query with one or more web sites e.g. via website to query mapping wherein the web sites contain web pages that are selected by at least some of the plurality of users in response to the distinct query .

Prior to sending Internet usage data for a computer user client receives login information for the user such as a username and password and sends the information to search engine via communications network . Search engine receives and verifies the login information thereby enabling search engine to associate subsequent data received from client e.g. Internet usage data such as event based data with a particular user record in user information database . In some embodiments the user must pre approve the use of the user s Internet usage data e.g. via an opt in process and thus Internet usage data of users who have not given their approval is excluded from the submission popularity data.

Client sends Internet usage data for a computer user to search engine via communications network . In some embodiments client is the computer used by the user to enter login information for the search engine . In some embodiments the user has previously registered with the search engine .

In some embodiments the Internet usage data include data about the user s interactions with search engine e.g. query events and result click events . In some embodiments the data about the user s interactions with the search engine include search queries by the user e.g. queries in query events times of search queries by the user e.g. timestamps in query events links in search results that were activated by the user e.g. contentID in result click events and or times that links in search results were activated by the user e.g. timestamps in result click events .

In some embodiments the Internet usage data include data about the user s web browsing e.g. browsing events . In some embodiments the data about the user s web browsing include addresses of web pages browsed by the user e.g. contentID in browsing events times when web pages were accessed by the user e.g. timestamps in browsing events and or lengths of time that web pages were displayed to the user.

In some embodiments the Internet usage data include click stream data for a computer user e.g. event based data . In some embodiments the Internet usage data is collected over a period of days weeks or months.

Search engine e.g. query server in the search engine receives the Internet usage data for the computer user. In some embodiments the Internet usage data includes web pages selected by the computer user. In some embodiments the selected web pages correspond to search results selected by the computer user e.g. contentID in result click events . In some embodiments the Internet usage data includes queries by the computer user e.g. queries in query events . In some embodiments search engine stores the Internet usage data in user record in user information database .

Query server determines one or more queries to recommend to the computer user that meet predefined criteria. The predefined criteria are based on the Internet usage data for the computer user and the submission popularity data for the search queries submitted by the plurality of users.

In some embodiments the predefined criteria include that 1 the determined query is associated with a plurality of web sites that contain web pages in the computer user s Internet usage data and 2 the change in the number of times the determined query was received between two predefined time periods exceeds a predefined value or percentage. For example the determined query may be world series if 1 the computer user s Internet usage data indicates that the computer user has looked at web pages in sports related web sites e.g. www.ESPN.com and www.Foxsports.com that other users have visited in response to the query world series and 2 the change in the number of world series queries received by search engine between period 1 e.g. this week and period 2 e.g. last week exceeds a particular number or percentage. In this example there may be a large change in the number of world series queries around the time that the baseball world series is being played but this popular search query is not recommended to all users because many of these users may have no interest in baseball. Instead the world series query is recommended to users whose Internet usage history indicates that they visit sports related web sites that contain pages that are often clicked on by other users as search results to the query world series. In some embodiments the association between web sites e.g. www.ESPN.com and www.Foxsports.com and queries e.g. world series is made via website to query mapping .

In some embodiments the predefined criteria exclude queries in the computer user s Internet usage data. For example if the computer user s record indicated that the computer user had already submitted world series as a query then world series would not be recommended to the computer user as a personalized popular search query. Alternately the query would not be recommended if the user had already submitted the same query within a predefined period of time e.g. one week two weeks or a month .

In some embodiments the predefined criteria include that the determined query is associated with a plurality of web sites containing web pages in the computer user s Internet usage data. In some embodiments the associated web sites exceed a predetermined number. For example it may be required that the world series query is associated with two or more web sites e.g. www.ESPN.com and www.Foxsports.com that contain web pages in the computer user s Internet usage data.

In some embodiments the predefined criteria include that the determined query is associated with one or more categories containing i.e. associated with web pages in the computer user s Internet usage data. For example the determined query may be world series if this query is associated e.g. via mappings and with one or more categories e.g. sports containing web pages in the computer user s Internet usage data. In this example world series is recommended to a user whose Internet usage history indicates that he or she visits sports related web pages. For example the one or more categories associated with a respective query may be compared with the categories identified in the user record to determine if the respective query is likely to be of interest to the user. In those embodiments in which the user record of a user includes weightings or level of interest values for the identified categories those values may be used to order and or select from among a set of queries that are potentially of interest to the user.

In some embodiments the predefined criteria include that the determined query is associated with a plurality of categories i.e. two or more categories containing web pages in the computer user s Internet usage data.

In some embodiments the predefined criteria include that the number of times the determined query was received in a predefined time period exceeds a predefined value. For example the number of world series queries received by search engine in period 1 e.g. this week exceeds a particular number e.g. 2000 .

In some embodiments the predefined criteria include that the change in the number of times the determined query was received between two predefined time periods exceeds a predefined value. For example the change in the number of world series queries received by search engine between period 1 e.g. this week and period 2 e.g. last week exceeds a particular number e.g. an increase of at least 10 000 queries .

In some embodiments the predefined criteria include that the percentage change in the number of times the determined query was received between two predefined time periods exceeds a predefined value. For example the percentage change in the number of world series queries received by search engine between period 1 e.g. this week and period 2 e.g. last week exceeds a particular number e.g. an increase of at least 50 percent 100 percent 200 percent or 300 percent .

In some embodiments the predefined criteria include that the change in the number of times the determined query was received between two predefined time periods exceeds a first predefined value and the percentage change in the number of times the determined query was received between two predefined time periods exceeds a second predefined value. For example the change in the number of world series queries received by search engine between period 1 e.g. this week and period 2 e.g. last week exceeds a first particular number e.g. 2000 and 2 the percentage change in the number of world series queries received by search engine between period 1 e.g. this week and period 2 e.g. last week exceeds a second particular number e.g. 200 percent .

Query server sends links corresponding to at least some of the determined queries to a computer associated with the computer user for display such as the client that the user has used for login. In some instances only the X highest ranked links are sent where X is an integer e.g. a number between 1 and 10 that is either predefined or chosen based on various system features e.g. the type of client device or the size of the display or display region in which the response is to be shown or user preferences.

Client receives links corresponding to at least some of the determined queries from the search engine and displays at least some of the received links.

The recommended search queries may correspond to recommended search queries of the Internet or just a portion thereof. Recommended search queries of just a portion of the Internet include without limitation image search queries recommended shopping search queries e.g. Froogle queries and recommended local search queries e.g. Google Local queries .

The foregoing description for purpose of explanation has been described with reference to specific embodiments. However the illustrative discussions above are not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible in view of the above teachings. The embodiments were chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the invention and its practical applications to thereby enable others skilled in the art to best utilize the invention and various embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated.

