---

title: Interactive remote disease monitoring and management system
abstract: A system that requests clinical data from a patient and then provides the clinical data wirelessly to be reviewed or analyzed with a certified medical algorithm and/or decision tree. The certified algorithm and/or decision tree can provide a summary of the data, indication of severity, “smart” decision or intervention protocol to a nurse, doctor, and the like. In addition, the system with the certified algorithm and/or decision tree can provide the summary of the data, indication of severity, “smart” decision or intervention protocol to the nurse, doctor, and the like within a short time frame, e.g. within 5 minutes from the data being provided by the patient. The certified decision and/or protocol can be agreed to or changed by an individual, e.g. a doctor, which can then be forwarded or sent back to the patient. If the patient doesn't respond to the certified decision within a short time frame, e.g. within 3 minutes from the data being provided to the patient, then a series of triggers can take place, e.g., a text message to a caregiver and the like.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09076315&OS=09076315&RS=09076315
owner: DocView Solutions LLC
number: 09076315
owner_city: Cherry Hill
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121203
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 586 741 filed Jan. 14 2012 having the same title and incorporated in its entirety by reference.

The present invention is related to a system for improving disease management for a patient and in particular to a system for improving disease management using portable wireless devices and utilizing a specific algorithm or decision tree as part of an interactive remote patient monitoring system for at least one disease.

The present health care system is complicated and expensive. Furthermore typical health care for an individual requires the individual e.g. a patient to travel to a doctor s office urgent care center and or a hospital in order to be seen by a doctor be administered tests and the like. Such travel for the individual can be difficult and some testing for the patient could be self administered if monitored or supervised in a desired manner.

According to the Center for Disease Control CDC chronic diseases are the leading cause of death in the U.S. In fact 7 out of 10 deaths among Americans each year are from chronic diseases. Heart disease cancer and stroke account for more than 50 of all deaths each year. Chronic diseases such as heart disease stroke cancer diabetes and arthritis are among the most common costly and preventable of all health problems in the U.S. The Global Status report said so called non communicable diseases accounted for more than 36 m deaths in 2008 and is rapidly rising.

In response to the need of reducing health care costs remote disease monitoring systems have been attempted. However heretofor systems still require a nurse and or doctor to review each and every piece of data provided by a patient in order to prescribe a treatment or treatment plan. Additionally many hospital re admissions are the direct result of not following the discharge notes or not reacting timely to changes in the patient s condition. Therefore an improved interactive remote disease monitoring system that can automatically suggest one or more treatment intervention protocols alert a health care provider of a potential problem with a patient s health and the like would be desirable. Additionally the system is implemented to create a more personal patient physician relationship for the Care Coordination Team while encouraging self management and individual responsibility and thereby leading to mutual accountability. By creating intelligent measurable real time and data driven health outcomes reduced hospital re admissions improved quality of life and effective cost savings opportunities can be provided while at the same time affording better care coordination for nurse clinician treatment teams and disease specific self monitoring and personalized care plans.

A system for improving disease management for a patient is provided. The system can include a portable wireless device having an electronic control unit memory and an interactive remote patient monitoring module IRPMM for at least one disease. The portable wireless device is operable to transmit and receive information to and or from an outside third party the outside third party possibly being a clinician health care provider etc. In addition the IRPMM can have a clinical data request module that is operable to request and receive clinical data input from a patient related to at least one disease. The IRPMM can also have a clinical data supply module that is operable to receive clinical information from the outside third party and provide supply the clinical information to the patient.

In some instances the system can have one or more certified algorithms and or decision trees that can receive and process the clinical data input from the patient and provide a preferred method of treatment. In addition the system can incorporate a health baseline for an individual patient which in combination with the at least one certified algorithm and or decision tree can provide a unique output i.e. interventional method of treatment for the patient.

The clinical data request module can ask a plurality of questions tailored to the individual patient the questions being a function of at least one disease. For example and for illustrative purposes only the clinical data request module can ask subjective questions of the patient related to the patient s overall pain level the patient s mood the patient s satisfaction with a particular stay in a hospital the patient s satisfaction with a visit to an urgent care center and the like. The clinical data request module can also ask clinical questions such as the patient s physical areas of swelling or direct the patient to perform a certain clinical test or task such as taking one s weight blood pressure pulse blood sugar and the like.

As stated above the clinical data request module can have a health or clinical data baseline for the patient i.e. a series of values for the patient s bodily functions such as blood pressure weight pulse etc. and data input by the patient can be compared to the baseline. In addition the system can provide a certified decision and or protocol in response to clinical data input by the patient that is processed through an algorithm a decision tree and the like. It is appreciated that the system can also include the availability for a health care provider to review agree and or change the certified decision and or protocol all decisions and data points being recorded in a secure database.

The certified algorithm decision tree can be for one or more diseases or co morbidities illustratively including chronic obstructive pulmonary disease COPD heart failure HF CHF asthma diabetes obesity hypertension arthritis chronic pain clinical depression sleep apnea coronary heart disease and the like. Furthermore the system can include validation for an end to end chain of custody with respect to information and or actions provided received and or taken by the patient and or clinician. For example the validation for end to end chain of custody can include a visual and or audible signal for one or more of the following clinical data provided by the patient review and or analysis of the clinical data by one or more certified algorithms decision trees etc. provided by the system production of a certified treatment or intervention protocol reviewed by the one or more certified algorithms decision trees etc. review of the certified treatment or intervention protocol by a clinician delivery of the certified treatment or intervention protocol to the patient and action taken by the patient in accordance with the certified treatment or intervention protocol. The system can also include decisions and or protocols related to an inaction taken by the patient for example sending of a message to the patient s caregiver e.g. a son a daughter etc. phoning of the patient phoning of 911 and the like if a patient does not execute a desired action instruction etc. provided by the clinician via the system.

Nonlimiting and illustrative examples of data input queries provided to the patient by the system include requests related to a patient s peak flow measurement value from a blow into a spirometer pulse rate body temperature sputum cough wheeze sore throat nasal congestion nausea urination shortness of breath fatigue swelling of joints abdominal pain and the like.

The system can have a clinical data analysis module with the certified algorithm and or decision tree and the clinical data analysis module can be part of or be in the form of a paper based manual system a web based assessment tool clinical guidelines health risk assessments staffed clinician call center pharmaceutical protocol best practice for a given disease and the like. The clinical data analysis module can also provide an indication of severity of the specified clinical illness as a function of the clinical data input by the patient. In addition the clinical data analysis module can compare the indication of severity to the health baseline of the patient and or to a standard intervention protocol based on that specific level of severity and then provide an assessment of the patient without the patient having to travel to a doctor s office urgent care center hospital etc.

The system can also be part of an accountable care organization ACO composed of physicians hospitals nursing homes home health agencies and other provider organizations responsible for the cost and quality of care provided to a given population of Medicare patients. In particular the system affords for physicians and hospitals to collaborate to prevent readmissions to the hospitals duplicate tests and reduce other sources of unnecessary cost and the like such that health care costs can be reduced with an increase in overall quality of care.

A system for improving disease management for a patient is provided. As such the system has use as a healthcare product.

The system can include a portable wireless device or a web enabled connected device used by a patient to request clinical data from the patient and then provide clinical data to be reviewed or analyzed with a certified algorithm and or decision tree. The certified algorithm and or decision tree can then provide a summary of the data indication of severity smart or certified decision or intervention protocol to a clinician e.g. nurse doctor and the like. For the purposes of the instant disclosure the term certified refers to physician approved for example a physician approved algorithm decision tree decision intervention protocol and the like.

In addition to the above the system with the certified algorithm and or decision tree can provide the summary of the data indication of severity smart decision or intervention protocol to the nurse doctor and the like within a short time frame e.g. within 5 minutes from the data being provided by the patient. The certified decision and or protocol can be agreed to and accepted or changed by an individual e.g. a doctor which can then be forwarded or sent back to the patient.

Upon receiving the decision and or protocol the patient is naturally instructed to execute the decision and or protocol and the system provides a chain of custody to alert a clinician that the decision and or protocol has been executed an action or in the alternative has not been executed an inaction and alert a care giver e.g. the assisted living home nurse the son daughter or the like that the patient has not responded and may need help etc. and needs to be contacted. In this manner the use of the inventive system allows for a clinician such as a nurse to monitor a large number of patients e.g. 250 patients and thereby provide an improved disease management system as opposed to the average of 20 25 patients per day per clinician and thereby leaving a large part of the chronically ill patients unmonitored and unaccounted for and being one of the largest reasons for hospital re admissions and escalating costs for the US Healthcare System.

Additionally many hospital re admissions are the direct result of not following the discharge notes or not reacting timely to changes in the patient s condition. Therefore an improved interactive remote disease monitoring system that can automatically suggest one or more treatment intervention protocols alert a health care provider of a potential problem with a patient s health and the like would be desirable. The system is implemented to create a more personal patient physician relationship for the Care Coordination Team while encouraging self management and individual responsibility thereby leading to mutual accountability and in the end saving many lives.

The portable wireless device can have an electronic control unit memory and an interactive remote patient monitoring module IRPMM for at least one disease. It is appreciated that the portable wireless device can transmit and receive information to and or from an outside third party or an in house data center utilizing the IRPMM decision modules and framework as illustrated in . In addition the IRPMM can have a clinical data request module that is operable to request and receive clinical data input from the patient related to the at least one disease and a clinical data supply module operable to receive clinical information from the outside third party and provide the clinical information to the patient. The clinical information can be an instruction decision treatment intervention protocol or overall wellness information and the like related to the at least one disease for the patient. It is appreciated that the clinical information can be a function of the clinical data input provided by the patient.

The system can also include certified algorithms and or decision trees results from a clinical study a paper based manual system a web based assessment tool clinical guidelines health risk assessments staffed clinician call center pharmaceutical protocol best practice for a given disease and the like which can be used for providing a certified decision and or interventional protocol as a function of the clinical data input by the patient. In this manner an intelligent and dynamic smart system affords for providing a suggested method or step of treatment to be reviewed by an individual clinician or group care coordination team e.g. a doctor. In addition the system affords for a single individual e.g. a nurse to monitor up to 250 patients having one or more diseases on a periodic regular basis. Stated differently with the system requesting and receiving clinical data from the patient and then processing the data and providing an indication of severity recommended protocol etc. to a clinician before or without any time required by the clinician a vast improvement in healthcare efficiency can be provided and a decreased re admission rate therefore occurs. The system also affords care to the entire population of chronically ill patients within a Healthcare System rather than a select number that is limited by the current manual methods accomplishing patient care by speeding up the process and adding a level of mutual accountability that otherwise did not exist.

The system can also include a validation of an end to end chain of custody that ensures or gives notice that a patient has or has not taken prescribed and or desired interventional actions provided by the doctor and or nurse via the portable IRPMM wireless device. For example and for illustrative purposes only a notice can be provided when a patient provides clinical subjective data to a clinician another notice provided when the data provided by the patient has been analyzed and a treatment or interventional protocol has been recommended by the system the treatment has been reviewed and approved the approved treatment has been sent to the patient and the patient has acknowledged receiving the approved treatment. In addition if the patient does not acknowledge receiving of the treatment and or affirmation that the treatment has been executed an incident of inaction can be generated and the system can send a SMS Text message a fax an email a page or place a phone call to notify the named party or parties e.g. caregiver of the patient such as a relative a home care provider and the like that the specified event did or did not take place and indicating what specific action is required based on the level of severity and the intervention decision.

Turning now to a schematic diagram of a system according to an embodiment of the present invention is shown. A wired or wireless device such as a mobile phone a portable tablet a laptop computer a desktop computer and the like can be included in the system the device having connected modality devices that can send and or receive information using a wireless connection a Bluetooth connection a wired connection etc. The device can have an electronic control unit memory and an interactive remote patient monitoring module IRPMM for at least one disease the IRPMM operable to request and receive subjective and clinical data from a patient.

The IRPMM can include connected Physical or wireless Bluetooth or manually entered data from clinical data modules e.g. a module for taking measuring or accepting data from a pulse oximeter a peak flow meter a blood pressure monitor a glucometer a weight scale a thermometer and the like. It is appreciated that the IRPMM is not limited to such individual data requests as stated above and can include additional specific data requests that would be asked of a patient during a visit to a doctor s office a visit to an urgent care center a visit to an emergency room and the like. For example data requests can include general subjective questions such as How are you feeling Do you feel depressed What is the overall level of your pain and the like. Questions such as What is your overall satisfaction level with your hospital visit What was your impression of the hospital staff and the like can also be provided to a patient to gather data on such issues aspects etc. of a health care event or ACO mandates and guidelines.

The IRPMM can also ask questions such as Are you still smoking and if answered in the affirmative the system can provide information programs etc. on how to quit smoking the dangers of smoking etc. Furthermore the system can provide advertising and education for health related matters such as quitting smoking losing weight exercise etc. It is appreciated that such information can be contained on content and media servers illustratively shown in which can be in wireless wired or manually entered communication with one or more of the devices .

Front end web and application programming interface API servers which may or may not be in communication with database servers that have clinical study data algorithms decision trees and the like can also be part of the system . It is appreciated that the database servers can have proprietary information algorithms decision trees and the like developed by a particular Healthcare System Hospital Doctor etc. and or publicly available Public Domain clinical study data algorithms decision trees and the like that can be used to make expert decisions on clinical data provided by one or more patients with one or more chronic illnesses or co morbidities. It is also appreciated that the database servers can be connected to a Healthcare or Ambulatory System s existing legacy solutions e.g. Electronic Medical Health Records EMR EHR Enterprise Practice Management Systems ePMS and Health Information Exchange HIE and the like via various legacy connections such as HL7 and the like to share data among various systems or the IRPMM can not connect to any other system acting as a HIPAA compliant stand alone solution. The system can further include a notification sub system that can notify the patient the doctor nurses relatives etc. using email text messaging mobile wireless communication and the like based on the results of the chain of custody and its action inaction events.

It is appreciated that by interconnecting the various components appropriate tools of the system with clinical specialists for disease management and using the components appropriate tools with or for a chronic illness populace overall costs e.g. hospital encumbrance insurance expenses etc. can be reduced. In addition clinical specialists e.g. nurses physicians etc. can function more efficiently and lives can be saved with unnecessary exacerbations and or chronic illness episodes monitored and intervened ahead of time allowing for shared accountability and with a reduction of future complications associated with a particular disease reduced. By creating intelligent measurable real time data driven health outcomes reduces hospital re admissions improves quality of life allows for effective cost savings opportunities provides better care coordination for nurse clinician treatment teams allows disease specific self monitoring and personalized care plans. 

Illustrative chronic illnesses that the system can be used to improve medical treatment for but are not limited to heart failure CHF HF chronic obstructive pulmonary disease COPD asthma diabetes obesity hypertension arthritis chronic pain clinical depression sleep apnea coronary heart disease and other prolonged conditions. For example and for illustrative purposes only COPD is a leading cause of mortality and morbidity worldwide affecting approximately 210 million people and leading to 3 million deaths annually. In the United States alone COPD is the fourth leading cause of death and accounts for 15.4 million physician visits 1.5 million emergency department visits and 636 000 hospitalizations each year. Based on national survey data the total economic burden of COPD in the United States in 2007 was calculated to be 46.2 billion. This calculated cost included 26.7 billion in direct health care expenditures of which 11.3 billion was for hospital care alone. In addition the above data for COPD is expected to increase considerably as the population in the United States continues to age.

In addition to the above patients with COPD experience exacerbations one to three times a year with treatment often requiring emergency room or hospitalization. It is appreciated that emergency room and or hospitalization contributes substantially to the financial burden of the disease. In addition depending on the population studied an estimated 25 47 of patients with COPD are hospitalized and as many as 26 have emergency room visits Re Admissions annually that can be substantially reduced by the inventive system . Finally various observational studies have found that inpatient care accounts for 52 70 of the direct medical cost of COPD.

Given the above statistics it is appreciated that the inventive system disclosed herein can provide a vast improvement in care for such patients and a significant reduction in costs associated with caring for such patients. For example and for illustrative purposes only the disease management system and a method of using the system can provide technology based remote interactions between a patient and a clinician utilizing connected devices that allow patients to put their health data manually into a phone connected or wireless device having an interactive remote patient monitoring module IRPMM specific in nature to a particular illness a web portal or service and the like. The manually entered health data can also include data from instruments such as a weight scale a blood pressure cuff a blood sugar monitor and the like. The data can also be transferred to a web based portal until a clinician has time to view the data.

The web based portal can have publicly available and or confidential certified algorithms decision trees and the like to analyze the health data compare the health data to baseline data for a particular patient etc. As mentioned above the algorithm decision tree etc. can provide a summary and or an overall indication of severity for the health data automatically or manually input by the patient and the summary and or overall indication of severity can be reviewed by a clinician to determine or suggest an intervention protocol. In the alternative the smart system can suggest an intervention protocol and the clinician can accept and or modify the protocol before sending to the patient. It is appreciated that for some chronic illness patients interventions can be performed on a periodic basis for example a daily basis. As such input of health data manually into a web portal service or wireless device can provide for daily check ups on the patient and review of the patient s data by a clinician in order to monitor and hopefully intervene unnecessary chronic illness episodes such as unnecessary exacerbations for COPD patients thereby optimizing mutual accountability of health outcomes and increasing their results in a positive direction. In summary the inventive system and method can deliver interventions to patients based on the utilization of various algorithms and or decision trees that have been established and statistically validated either by an actual clinical trial study or by a specific health system clinician s or physician s methodology for treating patients.

In some instances a numbering or indication of severity system can be generated by a known set of subjective and data driven clinical patient questions that can be entered into the IRPMM which can generate one or more results determined by the patient specific baseline data and or an overall indication of severity model. The baseline comparative results and or indication of severity can be initially generated from a patient s response to a series of questions provided by the IRPMM to the patient and the baseline comparative results and or indication of severity can be compared to a standard intervention protocol already established within a specific chronic illness. This comparison or matching of the baseline comparative results and or indication of severity to an intervention protocol can be in an easy to use format that does not require intensive learning on the part of all users of the system. In fact the system is naturally intuitive and the interventions become predictive over time.

After the generation of the baseline comparative results and or indication of severity and possible comparison or matching to a standard intervention protocol a suggested intervention or treatment protocol can be approved by one or more clinicians and sent back to a particular patient. As such a new and useful system in the area of remote disease monitoring and management that uses artificial intelligence and or expert analysis of health data input by a patient is provided. Such a system can also be utilized in other areas and markets similar or dissimilar to the healthcare industry.

Returning now to the inventive system can utilize wireless tablet computers and smart phones connected via the Internet or implemented over the cloud sometimes referred to as cloud computing. Such wireless tablet computers and smart phones are known to exist under the trademark names of Apple iPad Apple iPhone Android tablets Android smart phones Windows mobile tablets Windows mobile smart phones and other platforms that are conducive for easy use. It is appreciated that the system can also be used on or with new technologies as they become available.

In one example of the system and its use an IRPMM on a smart phone allows a patient to manually enter clinically required or subjective data points e.g. a value of a resultant peak flow measurement from a blow into a spirometer how the patient feels in general on a day such as their breathlessness a patient s sputum quantity and the like. Such data input can be based on a series of questions provided to the patient via the IRPMM and the answers to the questions can be converted to an indication of severity that is derived from a combination of the patient s answers and a matching of the answers to a severity of their illness with respect to baseline information that is taken into consideration for a specific chronic illness or comorbidity.

If a patient has more than one chronic illness such as COPD and CHF the IRPMM can include specific questions for the COPD chronic illness and another set of specific questions for CHF. The IRPMM can also process answers related to the COPD and the answers related to the CHF and provide a summary and or associated indication of severity for each illness in order to determine appropriate intervention s and report the indication of severity and or a suggested intervention protocol for a clinician s review approval modification and the like. Naturally once a clinician approves an intervention protocol such protocol is sent and provided back to the patient.

Such protocols can be statistically valid trials or clinician experience based indication of severity systems associated with a standard intervention protocol system that is accepted across the health care industry for a particular chronic illness specialty. For example the global strategy for diagnosis management and prevention of COPD generated by the Global Initiative for Chronic Obstructive Lung Disease GOLD can be loaded into the inventive system and can be used to compare the data indication of severity etc. obtained from the clinical data of a particular patient to a baseline for the particular patient and suggest an intervention protocol.

An accepted or altered intervention protocol is provided back to the patient and allows real time remote disease monitoring that effectively allows a clinician to communicate an intervention to a patient prior to the patient unnecessarily traveling back to a hospital and incurring a heavy financial burden on the hospital insurer patient etc. The system can notify the patient via the patient s smart phone or device that a message has been received from the clinician the smart phone or device notifying the patient by a ring vibration and the like. The patient can then reopen the IRPMM and accept the resultant intervention protocol by acknowledging the acceptance thereof and also possibly acknowledging that the result of the protocol has been successful or in the alternative is not successful and the patient is calling 911 and or is traveling to a doctor s office an emergency room etc. It is appreciated that the smart phone or device can have HIPAA compliant software loaded thereon with regular updates provided as known to those skilled in the art.

For illustrative purposes only and in no way limiting the scope of the invention an example will be provided below in which the system and its use are described with respect to a smart phone used by a patient and a smart tablet used by a clinician in the treatment of one or more patients with COPD.

Referring now to a schematic diagram of a home screen for a smart phone is shown with illustrative examples of applications such as a clock weather and the like. It is appreciated that one of the applications can be representative of the inventive system disclosed herein for example an application related to COPD using an application format hereafter referred to as DOC VIEW . illustrates a schematic screenshot of a login screen in which a COPD IRPMM application is provided the login screen having an area for input of a user name and a password as is known to those skilled in the art. As such it is appreciated that a patient can select the DOC VIEW application from and input his or her user name and password in to enter the DOC VIEW application in order to provide clinical data related to COPD.

After entering the user name and password illustrates a schematic screenshot of an entry screen in which selections for checking in sending a message reviewing recent activity and the like are provided. In addition provides a schematic screenshot for a breathlessness screen that can be part of clinical data input requested from a patient. As shown in the patient can be requested to select a particular level of breathlessness ranging from 0 none to 10 extremely and thereby provide a subjective data input for future analysis. The patient can also select the previous screen or the next screen provided by the buttons shown at the bottom of which naturally allows the patient to navigate through the COPD application.

For example and for illustrative purposes only by selecting the Next screen in the DOC VIEW application can request a sputum quantity value datum from the patient as shown in . A series of selections can be provided as shown in such as the sputum quantity being none less than 1 tablespoon greater than or equal to 1 tablespoon greater than cup and the like. It is appreciated that these exact selections can be modified according to a particular IRPMM a doctor s changes to the questions and the like. After selecting one of the quantity levels in the patient can select touch the Next button at the bottom of the screen which then affords for the application to request an input for sputum color as shown in . After the patient selects one of the sputum colors he she can select touch the Next button and be taken to a screen requesting an input for sputum consistency as illustratively shown in . As shown in the patient has illustratively selected Thin and can then select Next which can take the DOC VIEW application to the screen shown in which provides a plurality of data choices related to blowing into a spirometer with a selection available for a first attempt a second attempt a third attempt and the like.

The COPD DOC VIEW application can also include a request for body temperature data as illustrated in . In particular the screenshot shown in illustrates asking a patient if their temperature is over 100 . In the alternative the application can ask for a specific value to be input by the patient.

Referring now to the DOC VIEW application can provide questions to the patient as to whether or not he she have been coughing wheezing has a sore throat nasal congestion and the like. The system can take such answers for future analysis or in the alternative based on answers provided on the screen represented by ask more detailed questions such as how persistent a cough has been how severe wheezing has been how severe the sore throat is etc. As such the application and thus the system can be tailored for a specific disease patient and the like by asking specific questions requesting particular data input etc.

The data summary report and the like can be wirelessly transmitted to the web based portal or servers which can be accessed by a clinician and analyzed and or compared by or to a clinical study an algorithm decision tree etc. made available on the database servers . For example shows a screenshot of e.g. a smart tablet which has a series of patient records and data for the COPD disease. The system affords options on how to sort Sort By button through the patients and or the data for example selecting All of the patients only patients having a Normal level of wellness with respect to COPD a Mild level a Moderate level and or a Severe level of the indication of severity. As illustratively shown in a patient having an example name of Kostas Nasis has been selected and History providing a summary of data for dates ranging from Aug. 14 2011 to Aug. 22 2011 is shown with values for breathlessness sputum quantity and the like viewable by a clinician. In addition an overall indicator is shown utilizing various colors to indicate severity classifications which can be provided by certified algorithms decision trees and the like which provide expert decisions for review by a clinician. Furthermore graphical results can illustrate for example by the bar graph with the label of December 2011 underneath the name for a given time period.

Referring now to a baseline profile screen for the patient Kostas Nasis allows the entry of the patient s name address and the like which are then provided in a time efficient and convenient manner to the clinician. Finally provides the interventions suggested or provided to the patient along with a chain of custody history provided by the dots shown with text underneath. In particular illustratively shows dots or lighted circles that correspond to Pending Initial Review of the data Treatment Recommended Treatment Reviewed and Approved Final Review Sent to Patient and finally Patient Acknowledges receipt. In this manner the system can show and record end to end custody chains for a particular patient on a periodic basis. Also shown in are locations for the clinician to provide suggested treatment in the form of instructions medication with dosage frequency and the like and additional comments. It is appreciated that the data can be stored within one or more servers illustrated in .

The system can also take proactive actions with respect to calling in prescriptions for a particular patient calling 911 for a patient setting up a visit with an ambulatory physician or specialist and the like. For example if a patient s smart phone has a GPS unit and the patient has selected or requested that the DOC VIEW system have access to GPS data from the smart phone the DOC VIEW system can ask the patient if they would like a prescribed medication to be filled at a particular pharmacy that is in the proximity of the patient s smart phone. For example if the patient is traveling the DOC VIEW system can automatically determine this fact and ask the patient if the medication should be called in at the patient s regular pharmacy or a pharmacy that is located nearer to the present location of the patient.

Although the example above is provided for COPD it is appreciated that the system and DOC VIEW application can have IRPMM modules for different diseases such as those listed above. For example provides an illustrative example of a patient entry screen for an HF COPD application that allows a patient to enter a COPD or CHF check in send a message and or call 911 is shown. The system can also have a screen for a patient to input subjective data related to their overall personal experience with the medical system utilizing one of 33 ACO metrics as shown in . Upon entering the COPD and or CHF application module the system can provide a screen for a patient to input clinical data related to weight as shown in . In addition provides an illustrative example of a screen for a patient to input clinical data related to blood pressure according illustrates a screen for a patient to input clinical data related to heart rate illustrates a screen for a patient to input clinical data related to oxygenation percentage and a screen for a patient to input clinical data related to breathing all of which can be used to create decision trees illustrated in to be discussed below.

Regarding illustrative examples of dynamic screens generated based on an answer provided to the screen shown in provides with questions that refine previously asked generic questions such as Is your breathing worse at rest If not do you sleep well lying down If yes is it also worse during activity If not do you sleep well with additional pillows If not do you sleep well with sitting up in a chair .

Finally provides an illustrative example of a clinician reporting screen for a patient or a group of patients illustrating how many patients have been seen or reported their conditions and how many more patients need to be followed up with and how a Healthcare Institution e.g. a hospital is doing based on specific ACO Metric Guidelines given to the Healthcare Institution by the USA Medicare Office or other Government Entity monitoring the Healthcare Institutions ACO goals and is a subset of the 33 ACO metrics according to an embodiment of the present invention.

In this manner a range of diseases can be monitored remotely and allow for interactive monitoring with a patient to provide preventive health care with expert or smart analysis of patient input data and thereby reduce re admission trips to the hospital and the like. In addition the system can provide advertising and education to the patient based on their specific illnesses and baseline data. For example if the patient has a history of smoking drinking etc. the system can inquire if the patient is smoking has started smoking again is drinking excessively and the like and based on the answer from the patient provide education on smoking cessation programs the harmful effects of smoking the harmful effects of excessive drinking and the like. Furthermore the system could provide advertising as to health care aids equipment and the like that may be useful to the patient with respect to a particular disease they have. It is appreciated that the advertising and or education materials can be stored in the servers and or be made available via Internet links Internet cloud storage etc.

It should be appreciated that the above disclosure is a representation of the system and that modifications to the system will be obvious to those skilled in the art. For example additional diseases questions for patients to answer etc. can not specifically discussed herein can fall within the scope of the invention. Illustratively questions related to swelling of a patient s joints extremities and the like can be included. As such the above embodiments examples etc. are not to be restrictive on the scope of the invention but should be interpreted broadly. As such it is the claims and all equivalents thereof that define the scope of the invention.

