---

title: High-density fiber coupling and emission/detection system
abstract: An optical system including an array of photonic devices that convert light signals to electrical signals or electrical signals to light signals are coupled together and optically coupled to an array of optic fibers of an information channel. A lens couples optical beams generated to at least one array of photonic devices and the array of optic fibers for an optical communication there-between. The array of photonic devices and the array of optic fibers are respectively arranged in a honeycomb configuration.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09140852&OS=09140852&RS=09140852
owner: VOLEX PLC
number: 09140852
owner_city: London
owner_country: GB
publication_date: 20121005
---
The subject application relates to optical systems having high density fiber coupling in an information channel and in particular a coupling with high density fibers and an emitter receiver array.

Advances in technology have made communication using electromagnetic waves are the most reliable and fastest ways of communicating information between points. In general electromagnetic communication systems generate information at a source e.g. transmitter . Information is transmit as a signal through a channel such as free space in radio applications electronic lines in telephone and internet applications or optic fibers in fiber optic applications. During transmission a channel propagating information usually induces loss in a signal and or distorts the signal. Likewise various other mechanics may introduce noise in a signal. A signal is typically received by a receiver which can utilize and or decode the signal.

An optic engine or transmitter utilizes a laser diode LD or light emitting diode LED to encode data through modulation such as amplitude modulation AM frequency modulation FM and digital modulation. LD and LED sources commonly generate signals with wavelengths in a range from 660 nanometers nm to 1 550 nm. Encoded data is propagated through an optic fiber e.g. silicon . Optic fibers couple to an optical receiver which detects amplifies and decodes demodulates the encoded data.

The above described deficiencies are merely intended to provide an overview of some of the problems of conventional systems and are not intended to be exhaustive. Other problems with conventional systems and corresponding benefits of the various non limiting embodiments described herein may become further apparent upon review of the following description.

The following presents a simplified summary in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects disclosed herein. This summary is not an extensive overview. It is intended to neither identify key or critical elements nor delineate the scope of the aspects disclosed. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

Various embodiments are disclosed for an optical system. An exemplary system comprises an information channel component configured for carrying an optical beam along a guided pathway and comprising a plurality of fiber optic channels bundled together. The system includes an optical transmitter component comprising a plurality of optical emitters coupled together in a first array and jointly coupled to the information channel component. A first lens component is configured for coupling the optical beam from the plurality of optical emitters to the plurality of fiber optic channels for transmission of the optical beam.

In another non limiting embodiment a system is disclosed having an array of photonic devices coupled together and that is configured for integrating at least one optical beam with an electronic circuit. An information channel component is configured for guiding the optical beam along a guided pathway having a receive channel and a transmit channel and comprises a plurality of optic fibers bundled together. A lens component configured to couple the array of photonic devices to the information channel.

In yet another non limiting embodiment an exemplary method for optically communicating a light beam comprises generating a plurality of optical beams with a first array of photonic devices coupled together. The plurality of optical beams is coupled from the array of photonic devices with a lens to a plurality of optical fibers bundled together in an information channel. The plurality of optical beams is communicated through the information channel.

As used herein the term hexagonal compact includes a two dimensional stack of units e.g. fibers and or optoelectronic photonic components where each individual is equally distant from all of its closest neighbors which are at approximately a sixty degree angle relative to one another such as in a honeycomb configuration. A fiber array an array of optical fibers or like terms is meant as a structure of agglomerated fibers in a hexagonal compact shape used to couple light in or out of a cable or information channel. An emitter receiver array can be a photonic array structure of emitters e.g. Vertical Cavity Surface Emitting Lasers VCSELs and or receiver e.g. photodiodes or PDs used to convert electrical signals into light and vice versa. An optical system as used herein is meant as any optical scheme diotropic diffractive optics etc. used to couple light from the emitter array to the fiber array and or from the fiber array to the receiver array. Fusion is the action by which optical fibers are fused together. Cleave is a term of action by which one or more fibers are precisely cut along a plane by applying tension and initiating a crack that propagates perpendicular to the plane of normal stress in either order in which alternatively the crack can be made and the tension applied afterwards through various means. Fiber polishing describes an action of preparing fiber ends b polishing usually along a plane perpendicular to the fiber axis which can be applicable also to structures composed of several fibers.

The following description and the annexed drawings set forth in detail certain illustrative aspects of the disclosed subject matter. These aspects are indicative however of but a few of the various ways in which the principles of the various embodiments may be employed. The disclosed subject matter is intended to include all such aspects and their equivalents. Other advantages and distinctive features of the disclosed subject matter will become apparent from the following detailed description of the various embodiments when considered in conjunction with the drawings.

Embodiments and examples are described below with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details in the form of examples are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the various embodiments. It will be evident however that these specific details are not necessary to the practice of such embodiments. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate description of the various embodiments.

Reference throughout this specification to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment. Thus the appearances of the phrase in one embodiment or in an embodiment in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment. Furthermore the particular features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments.

As utilized herein terms component system interface and the like are intended to refer to a computer related entity hardware software e.g. in execution and or firmware. For example a component can be a processor a process running on a processor an object an executable a program a storage device and or a computer. By way of illustration an application running on a server and the server can be a component. One or more components can reside within a process and a component can be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers.

Further these components can execute from various computer readable media having various data structures stored thereon such as with a module for example. The components can communicate via local and or remote processes such as in accordance with a signal having one or more data packets e.g. data from one component interacting with another component in a local system distributed system and or across a network e.g. the Internet a local area network a wide area network etc. with other systems via the signal .

As another example a component can be an apparatus with specific functionality provided by mechanical parts operated by electric or electronic circuitry the electric or electronic circuitry can be operated by a software application or a firmware application executed by one or more processors the one or more processors can be internal or external to the apparatus and can execute at least a part of the software or firmware application. As yet another example a component can be an apparatus that provides specific functionality through electronic components without mechanical parts the electronic components can include one or more processors therein to execute software and or firmware that confer s at least in part the functionality of the electronic components. In an aspect a component can emulate an electronic component via a virtual machine e.g. within a cloud computing system.

The word exemplary and or demonstrative is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. For the avoidance of doubt the subject matter disclosed herein is not limited by such examples. In addition any aspect or design described herein as exemplary and or demonstrative is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other aspects or designs nor is it meant to preclude equivalent exemplary structures and techniques known to those of ordinary skill in the art. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes has contains and other similar words are used in either the detailed description or the claims such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as an open transition word without precluding any additional or other elements.

In consideration of the above described deficiencies among other things various embodiments are provided for optical systems and optical components to process optical signals or messages in an array of photonic devices optoelectronic devices in an array of optical fibers couple to the array of photonic devices. In example method to achieve optical coupling and de coupling is through individually coupling linear fiber and optoelectronics arrays where each fiber is coupled through an individual lens to its corresponding component in the receiver array and vice versa for the emitter coupled to the fiber . In addition another method involves individual fibers being coupled to individual optoelectronic devices through an individual lens. In both these examples the optical system can be geometrically very constrained and also dependent on fiber ribbon alignments which can be less accurate in their spacing. Although this does not apply to an individual fiber to individual optoelectronics device scheme those schemes have another problem which is that it is hard to make them dense as they typically use larger lenses for collimation for example in the context of a connector .

In one example a method can utilize a lens component with a single lens to couple an emitter array to a fiber array and or a fiber array to a detector array. Because the arrays themselves can demand very good component to component positioning for alignment the alignment of the components is reduced to aligning one array to the other in which various means exists to easily constrain this alignment for the fiber array because of the resulting geometry of the structure. For instance the natural 60 degree angle of the structure and its relatively bigger size than that of a single fiber can be considered when making a more easily manufactured v groove for example. Furthermore for both the photonics optoelectronics and the fiber the fact that their relative positions are very repeatable removes a number of tolerances from the equation and likely yield more accurate and repeatable individual components or elements placement.

Referring initially to illustrated is an optical system for communication with an optical beam in accordance with various embodiments in this disclosure. System can include a memory that stores computer executable components and a processor that executes computer executable components stored in the memory examples of which can be found with reference to . It is to be appreciated that the computer can be used in connection with implementing one or more of the systems or components shown and described in connection with and as well as other figures disclosed herein. System is one example architecture of an optical system in which the components of the system can be combined and or operate externally to one another in different architectures. For example the system includes a transmitter component an information channel component and a receiver component in which any number of the components can be separate and or in combination as one component such as an optical transceiver component that includes at least the transmitter component and the receiver component .

The transmitter component of the system comprises at least one optical emitter such as VCSEL device a Laser Emitting Diode LED a Laser Diode LD and or other semiconductor optical device e.g. Organic Light Emitting Diode etc. for communicating an optical signal. The transmitter component for example includes a modulator component and an optical or carrier source component that communicates to the information channel via a channel coupler component . The transmitter component operates as an optical emitter that converts messages inputted into one format e.g. an electronic format into a different format e.g. an optical format . The modulator component converts a message into a proper format e.g. analog digital for transmission in the system e.g. analog digital and is further configured to impress the message onto a wave e.g. an optical wave . The source component generates the carrier wave on which the information from the modulator component is transmitted e.g. in an optical wave format which can be generated from any optical oscillator. The channel coupler operates to feed power into the information guide such as an optical cable. The channel coupler operates to direct an optical beam toward the information guide by directing focusing and or magnifying the optical beam onto an end surface of an information guide for example. The transmitter component interfaces with the information guide component which includes a guided information pathway such as an optical fiber fiber optic or other functioning guide for the optical transmission of data over a defined distance.

The information guide includes a transmit channel Tx a receive channel Rx one or more optical amplifiers and or repeaters and or and is configured to communicatively couple the transmitter component with the receiver component . The optical amplifiers of the information guide operate to boost power levels and ensure sufficient power to the receiver component . Optical repeaters regenerators can also convert weak and distorted optical signals to electrical ones and then regenerate the original digital pulse trains for further transmission in which any of the components and or can operate as an optical amplifier and or an optical repeater based on design of the information guide and the system architecture. Along the receive channel Rx the information guide directs the transmitted optical beam to the receiver component via an output coupler which operates to direct focus and or magnify the optical beam to the detector .

The receiver component can comprise an optical receiver device such as a photodetector e.g. p n photodiode p i n photodiode avalanche photodiode and or the like . The receiver component for example can include a detector an amplifier and a processing unit e.g. a processor . The detector can operate to convert the optical beam into an electronic current or other energy format. The detector for example can include a photo detector that demodulates the optical signal received through the receive channel Rx and the information guide . The amplifier can operate to amplify or remove any bias of the data in electrical form for processing at the processing unit which can further amplify and or filter the current for quality communications.

In one embodiment the receive channel Rx and the transmit channel Tx are of equal lengths and or of equal distances with respect to one another. An advantage of having substantially similar lengths in the Rx channel and the Tx channel is that a reference is provided for balancing tolerances in both channels however as a result tolerances in signal transmission can become an increasingly limiting factor in the information guide such as with fiber optics supporting multiple modes. For example the information guide can include a plurality of modes in which can present a difficulty involving the difference between the transverse radiation pattern of the source and the mode patterns of waveguide modes in the information channel . Exact coupling with the waveguide can be difficult unless the optic beam patterns are substantially identical or in other words substantially matched. For example rays associated with different modes have each mode excited by a plane wave incident on a slab therein such that the internal angle of the beam is a desired value to guide the beam. As such coupling the optical beam from the source to the information guide component and also to the detector is provided with symmetrical channels in length or in distance with respect to space.

In another embodiment the transceiver component the receiver component and or the information channel are configured in a honeycomb configuration that includes an array of optical emitters an array of receiver devices and or an array of optical fibers respectively. The channel coupler can comprise a single lens e.g. a convergent lens convex lens aspheric lens or other lens shape that focuses one or more optical beams onto an end surface of the information channel . Additionally the output coupler can comprise a single lens e.g. convergent lens etc. that also focuses one or more optical beams optical patterns onto the array of optical receiver devices which can comprise a different or same number of receiver devices as the array of optical emitters.

An advantage of having the array of optical emitters coupled via a single lens of the channel coupler to an array of optical fibers is that the configuration enables increased density of channels in an optical device and eliminates several placement tolerances as the fiber to fiber and optical emitter to optical emitter patterns which are more accurate in alignment. Likewise the same advantages are provided in addition or alternatively with the array of optical fibers in the information channel being coupled to the array of receiver devices via the output coupler which can include a single lens for transmission of one or more optical beam patterns.

Referring to illustrates an example of an optical system in accordance with various embodiments. The system includes similar components as discussed above and comprises an array of optical fibers or fiber optics that includes individual optical fibers bundled together in the information channel . The array of optical fibers are illustrated in an enlarged cross section along with other arrays of the information channels that also include fiber optics which are not individually shown for each array of the cross section for ease of explanation.

In one example configuration the array of optical fibers can include any number of optical fibers coupled together by being bundled fused and or cleaved for optical transmission. Different configurations are envisioned and can include for example a hexagonal compact honeycomb configuration as well as other configurations e.g. octagonal etc. . The array of optical fibers can include 3 6 with a sacrificial fiber 7 or any other number of fiber optics bundled together and joined e.g. agglomerated fused etc. in a parallel configuration for transmission of one or more optical beams in an optical communication. For example fiber optics can be bundled together in an array pattern that couples one fiber optic to another in parallel and polished at the end face .

The fiber optics can be coupled together in the array of fiber optic channels optical fibers by fusing the fiber optic channels together or by agglomerating them and gluing them together by a mechanical means. The fiber optic array structure is then cleaved if fused or cut and polished if glued . The resulting plurality of optical fibers is what is referred to as the fiber array the array of fiber optic channels fiber optics or otherwise referred to by similar terms herein. By observing the transmit channel Tx i.e. the TX side of the optical system the fiber array can be positioned in the image space in a groove or other mechanical registration device that accurately sets the fiber array in place both along across and angularly with respect to the system optical beam axis. A multi emitter chip not shown can then be positioned in the object space and similarly aligned by appropriate methods i.e. features on the board mechanical alignment and so on . For example an array of photonic devices emitters and or receivers can be optically coupled to the information channel on a semiconductor die that integrates the optical transmitter component with the information channel and the lens component on a substrate. The magnification ratio can be given by the properties of the emitters and fibers combined. The dimensional properties of the fiber and emitter arrays should be in the same magnification ratio i.e. component to component distance . Although the magnification in the RX space could be different the same manufacturing methods could be used for manufacturing on the RX channel swapping image and object in the previous description and replacing emitter with receiver. For example the receiver component can include an array of photodetectors coupled together in an array and aligned accordingly with the array of fiber optics of the information channel on the receive channel Rx side which is further detailed below.

In another embodiment the information channel can include the array of fiber optics . Additionally the information channel can include any number of arrays optical fibers that are coupled to one another or individually integrated within the information channel . Although illustrates a honeycomb configuration of about seven different arrays of optical fibers any number or configuration is envisioned. An individual array of fiber optics that are bundled and or joined together can be coupled to the transceiver component respectively via the channel coupler of the transmit channel Tx and to the receiver component via the output coupler of the receive channel Rx.

In another example the channel coupler includes a lens component that includes a single lens that focuses the optical beam of the transmitter component to an array of optic fibers channels . The transmitter component can include an array of transmitter devices or in other words an array of emitter devices not shown that are coupled together as further described below. The lens component can include a single lens that focuses the optical beam from the transmitter component for communication via the array of optical fibers and to the receiver component .

Referring now to illustrates an optical system comprising the transmitter component that includes an array of emitter devices for transmitting one or more optical beams to the information channel . An enlarged cross section of the transmitter component illustrates multiple arrays joined together in array configuration in which any number of arrays of optical emitters can be implemented within the transmitter component and any number of a plurality of optical emitters can be included within an array. Each array of optical emitters include a plurality of compact bundled emitter devices that can be arranged in various configurations such as a honeycomb or hexagonal compact configuration in which the array s of optical emitters are communicatively couple to one or more arrays of optical fibers of the information channel . For instance the array of optical emitters can be configured in a natural 60 degree angle to one another and oriented to direct optical beam patterns via a lens component having a single lens to a fiber optic array . Because the positions are repeatable for both the optoelectronics e.g. the emitters devices in array and the optical fibers this removes a number of tolerances in alignments and placements for optical communication and further the number of emitter devices can be different in number from or substantially the same as the number of optical fiber arrays of the information channel .

In one embodiment the array of optical emitters can include VCSELs or other emitter devices which can be communicatively coupled together electronically e.g. wired wirelessly . For example the array of optical emitters can be optically coupled to the information channel on a semiconductor die substrate that integrates the optical transmitter component with the information channel and the lens component .

In another embodiment the first lens component is configured to generate a variable optical connection configured to variably couple at least one optical emitter of the plurality of optical emitters among fiber optic channels of the plurality of fiber optic channels . In other words rather than an individual connection from an emitter to an optical fiber the array of emitters is coupled to the array of fiber optics so that a single emitter is not solely associated with a particular fiber optics but is variably connected to fiber optics among the array of optical fibers .

Referring to illustrates an optical system that includes a number of optical emitters in an array of optical emitters joined together. The system includes a plurality of optical beams e.g. three or another number that fan out as optical beam patterns of optical data to a lens component . The lens component can operate as a single lens that receives the optical beams generated by the array of emitter devices . The lens component couples the beam to the array of optical fibers for further transmission there through. Because single optical fibers and emitters are replaced by arrays e.g. honeycomb configuration arrays of fibers and emitters and or receivers a significant increase in the density of the channels in optical devices can be demonstrated that eliminates several placement tolerances as the fiber to fiber and emitter to emitter receiver to receiver beam patterns are highly accurate.

The photodetector for example includes one or more an arrays of receiver devices . Similar to the array of optical emitters the array can include one or more array in a honeycomb configuration of receiver devices or a different configuration. Multiple arrays can be further combined in a similar configuration or alternative configuration so that the photodetector can include one or more arrays of receiver devices .

The output coupler can further include a lens component that operates to focus optical beams through optical fiber arrays of the information channel onto the one or more arrays of receiver devices. The lens component can include at least one lens similar to the lens component so that the optical beams through an array of optical fibers are concentrated among receiver devices among the array of receiver devices . Thus fiber optic arrays can be coupled via the lens to receiver arrays without an individual one to one correspondence. For example the lens component as well as the lens component is configured for generating a variable connection between an array of photonic devices emitters and or receivers and the plurality of optical fibers independently of individual alignments with optical fibers of an array of optical fibers.

In one embodiment the array s of receiver devices can be communicatively coupled together electronically e.g. wired wirelessly . For example the array of receiver devices can be optically coupled to the information channel on a semiconductor die substrate as well that integrates the optical receiver component with the information channel and the lens component in addition to or alternatively to the receiver component .

In one example the lens component and the lens component can operate as a first and or second lens respectively. The optical system can be further arranged in a different architecture and is not limited to only the examples disclosed for explanation. For example the systems disclosed herein can include a configuration in which only one lens component operates to couple an array of photonic devices e.g. optical emitters and or receiver devices with the array s of fibers of the information channel .

While the methods or process flows described within this disclosure are illustrated in and described herein as a series of acts or events it will be appreciated that the illustrated ordering of such acts or events are not to be interpreted in a limiting sense. For example some acts may occur in different orders and or concurrently with other acts or events apart from those illustrated and or described herein. In addition not all illustrated acts may be required to implement one or more aspects or embodiments of the description herein. Further one or more of the acts depicted herein may be carried out in one or more separate acts and or phases.

An example methodology for implementing a method for an optic system having a collimated channel is illustrated in . Reference is made to the figures described above for ease of description. However the method is not limited to any particular embodiment or example provided within this disclosure.

At the method begins with generating optical beam patterns such as from an emitter or optical transmitter devices e.g. VCSEL devices or the like . Optical beam patterns can be meant to be one or more optical beams that diverge outward over distance along a carrier wave as discussed herein. The array of photonic devices can include optical transceivers that transmit and receive data in an optical format and or transmitter devices. Alternatively the array of photonic devices can include receiver devices having photodetector devices that receive optical beams and generate sensed patterns of the optical beams for conversion from an optical format to another physical format e.g. electronic and or mechanical .

At the plurality of optical beam patterns can be coupled from the array of photonic devices with a lens to a plurality of optical fibers. For example optical beams are transmitter and or received via a single lens from the array of photonic devices and coupled to an array of fiber optics. The array of photonic devise can be emitters and or receiver devices that are coupled to fiber communication channels that are provided in an array of optical fibers. The photonic devices and or the array of optical fibers can be configured in honeycomb configuration for example and coupled to one another via a single lens from one array to another array. At the plurality of optical beam patterns can be communicated via an information channel in which the array of optical fibers provides a guided pathway therein for example.

One of ordinary skill in the art can appreciate that the various non limiting embodiments of the shared systems and methods described herein can be implemented in connection with any computer or other client or server device which can be deployed as part of a computer network or in a distributed computing environment and can be connected to any kind of data store. In this regard the various non limiting embodiments described herein can be implemented in any computer system or environment having any number of memory or storage units and any number of applications and processes occurring across any number of storage units. This includes but is not limited to an environment with server computers and client computers deployed in a network environment or a distributed computing environment having remote or local storage.

Distributed computing provides sharing of computer resources and services by communicative exchange among computing devices and systems. These resources and services include the exchange of information cache storage and disk storage for objects such as files. These resources and services also include the sharing of processing power across multiple processing units for load balancing expansion of resources specialization of processing and the like. Distributed computing takes advantage of network connectivity allowing clients to leverage their collective power to benefit the entire enterprise. In this regard a variety of devices may have applications objects or resources that may participate in the shared shopping mechanisms as described for various non limiting embodiments of the subject disclosure.

Each computing object etc. and computing objects or devices etc. can communicate with one or more other computing objects etc. and computing objects or devices etc. by way of the communications network either directly or indirectly. Even though illustrated as a single element in communications network may comprise other computing objects and computing devices that provide services to the system of and or may represent multiple interconnected networks which are not shown. Each computing object etc. or computing object or device etc. can also contain an application such as applications that might make use of an API or other object software firmware and or hardware suitable for communication with or implementation of the shared shopping systems provided in accordance with various non limiting embodiments of the subject disclosure.

There are a variety of systems components and network configurations that support distributed computing environments. For example computing systems can be connected together by wired or wireless systems by local networks or widely distributed networks. Currently many networks are coupled to the Internet which provides an infrastructure for widely distributed computing and encompasses many different networks though any network infrastructure can be used for exemplary communications made incident to the shared shopping systems as described in various non limiting embodiments.

Thus a host of network topologies and network infrastructures such as client server peer to peer or hybrid architectures can be utilized. The client is a member of a class or group that uses the services of another class or group to which it is not related. A client can be a process i.e. roughly a set of instructions or tasks that requests a service provided by another program or process. The client process utilizes the requested service without having to know any working details about the other program or the service itself.

In client server architecture particularly a networked system a client is usually a computer that accesses shared network resources provided by another computer e.g. a server. In the illustration of as a non limiting example computing objects or devices etc. can be thought of as clients and computing objects etc. can be thought of as servers where computing objects etc. acting as servers provide data services such as receiving data from client computing objects or devices etc. storing of data processing of data transmitting data to client computing objects or devices etc. although any computer can be considered a client a server or both depending on the circumstances. Any of these computing devices may be processing data or requesting services or tasks that may implicate the shared shopping techniques as described herein for one or more non limiting embodiments.

A server is typically a remote computer system accessible over a remote or local network such as the Internet or wireless network infrastructures. The client process may be active in a first computer system and the server process may be active in a second computer system communicating with one another over a communications medium thus providing distributed functionality and allowing multiple clients to take advantage of the information gathering capabilities of the server. Any software objects utilized pursuant to the techniques described herein can be provided standalone or distributed across multiple computing devices or objects.

In a network environment in which the communications network or bus is the Internet for example the computing objects etc. can be Web servers with which other computing objects or devices etc. communicate via any of a number of known protocols such as the hypertext transfer protocol HTTP . Computing objects etc. acting as servers may also serve as clients e.g. computing objects or devices etc. as may be characteristic of a distributed computing environment.

As mentioned advantageously the techniques described herein can be applied to a number of various devices for employing the techniques and methods described herein. It is to be understood therefore that handheld portable and other computing devices and computing objects of all kinds are contemplated for use in connection with the various non limiting embodiments i.e. anywhere that a device may wish to engage on behalf of a user or set of users. Accordingly the below general purpose remote computer described below in is but one example of a computing device.

Although not required non limiting embodiments can partly be implemented via an operating system for use by a developer of services for a device or object and or included within application software that operates to perform one or more functional aspects of the various non limiting embodiments described herein. Software may be described in the general context of computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by one or more computers such as client workstations servers or other devices. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that computer systems have a variety of configurations and protocols that can be used to communicate data and thus no particular configuration or protocol is to be considered limiting.

Although not required embodiments are described in the general context of computer readable instructions being executed by one or more computing devices. Computer readable instructions may be distributed via computer readable media discussed below . Computer readable instructions may be implemented as program modules such as functions objects Application Programming Interfaces APIs data structures and the like that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Typically the functionality of the computer readable instructions may be combined or distributed as desired in various environments.

In other embodiments device may include additional features and or functionality. For example device may also include additional storage e.g. removable and or non removable including but not limited to magnetic storage optical storage and the like. Such additional storage is illustrated in by storage . In one embodiment computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein may be in storage . Storage may also store other computer readable instructions to implement an operating system an application program and the like. Computer readable instructions may be loaded in memory for execution by processing unit for example.

The term computer readable media as used herein includes computer storage media. Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions or other data. Memory and storage are examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM Digital Versatile Disks DVDs or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by device . Any such computer storage media may be part of device .

Device may also include communication connection s that allows device to communicate with other devices. Communication connection s may include but is not limited to a modem a Network Interface Card NIC an integrated network interface a radio frequency transmitter receiver an infrared port a USB connection or other interfaces for connecting computing device to other computing devices. Communication connection s may include a wired connection or a wireless connection. Communication connection s may transmit and or receive communication media.

The term computer readable media as used herein includes computer readable storage media and communication media. Computer readable storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions or other data. Memory and storage are examples of computer readable storage media. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM Digital Versatile Disks DVDs or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by device . Any such computer readable storage media may be part of device .

Device may also include communication connection s that allows device to communicate with other devices. Communication connection s may include but is not limited to a modem a Network Interface Card NIC an integrated network interface a radio frequency transmitter receiver an infrared port a USB connection or other interfaces for connecting computing device to other computing devices. Communication connection s may include a wired connection or a wireless connection. Communication connection s may transmit and or receive communication media.

The term computer readable media may also include communication media. Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions or other data that may be communicated in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal may include a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal.

Device may include input device s such as keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device infrared cameras video input devices and or any other input device. Output device s such as one or more displays speakers printers and or any other output device may also be included in device . Input device s and output device s may be connected to device via a wired connection wireless connection or any combination thereof. In one embodiment an input device or an output device from another computing device may be used as input device s or output device s for computing device .

Components of computing device may be connected by various interconnects such as a bus. Such interconnects may include a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI such as PCI Express a Universal Serial Bus USB firewire IEEE 1394 an optical bus structure and the like. In another embodiment components of computing device may be interconnected by a network. For example memory may be comprised of multiple physical memory units located in different physical locations interconnected by a network.

Those skilled in the art will realize that storage devices utilized to store computer readable instructions may be distributed across a network. For example a computing device accessible via network may store computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein. Computing device may access computing device and download a part or all of the computer readable instructions for execution. Alternatively computing device may download pieces of the computer readable instructions as needed or some instructions may be executed at computing device and some at computing device .

Various operations of embodiments are provided herein. In one embodiment one or more of the operations described may constitute computer readable instructions stored on one or more computer readable media which if executed by a computing device will cause the computing device to perform the operations described. The order in which some or all of the operations are described should not be construed as to imply that these operations are necessarily order dependent. Alternative ordering will be appreciated by one skilled in the art having the benefit of this description. Further it will be understood that not all operations are necessarily present in each embodiment provided herein.

Moreover the word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as advantageous over other aspects or designs. Rather use of the word exemplary is intended to present concepts in a concrete fashion. As used in this application the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . That is unless specified otherwise or clear from context X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is if X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B then X employs A or B is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims may generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form.

Also although the disclosure has been shown and described with respect to one or more implementations equivalent alterations and modifications will occur to others skilled in the art based upon a reading and understanding of this specification and the annexed drawings. The disclosure includes all such modifications and alterations and is limited only by the scope of the following claims. In particular regard to the various functions performed by the above described components e.g. elements resources etc. the terms used to describe such components are intended to correspond unless otherwise indicated to any component which performs the specified function of the described component e.g. that is functionally equivalent even though not structurally equivalent to the disclosed structure which performs the function in the herein illustrated exemplary implementations of the disclosure. In addition while a particular feature of the disclosure may have been disclosed with respect to only one of several implementations such feature may be combined with one or more other features of the other implementations as may be desired and advantageous for any given or particular application. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes having has with or variants thereof are used in either the detailed description or the claims such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising. 

