---

title: Split screen presentation of functionality during a hold period prior to a customer-service video conference
abstract: Embodiments of the invention are directed to systems, methods and computer program products for split-screen functionality to be provided to a user device during a hold period prior to a customer-service video conference. Specifically, according to defined embodiments, the present invention provides for a first portion of split-screen includes a visual depiction of a queue of users currently awaiting a video conference with the customer-service associate. The queue allows for the user/customer to gauge how long the hold period will last. In addition to the visual depiction of the hold queue, the split screen may provide for other portions of the screen to include other information and/or functionality such as, such as information related or unrelated to the impending video conference.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08866877&OS=08866877&RS=08866877
owner: Bank of America Corporation
number: 08866877
owner_city: Charlotte
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121015
---
In general embodiments herein disclosed relate to communications and more specifically providing a split screen presentation of functionality to users customers during a hold period prior to a customer service video conference.

With the advent of video camera functionality on many computing devices including handheld computing devices such as smart telephones tablet devices and the like the ability to conduct video conferencing in different contexts has flourished. Specifically such video conferencing capabilities provides a platform for conducting live customer service video conferences as opposed to conducting audio only communication via a telephonic customer service interaction.

Not unlike the audio only telephone customer service interaction in the video conferencing setting the user customer will often require being placed on hold prior to conducting the video conference due to the limited capacity of customer service associates tasked with conducting the video conferences. However unlike the audio only telephone customer experience in which the hold period is generally limited to providing the user customer with an audio experience such as music news or the like video conferencing offers many opportunities in terms of enhancing the hold period. Such enhancement of the hold period is especially relevant since a video conference is typically conducted on a computing device such as PC laptop tablet smart phone or the like which is configured for multitask functionality such that the user customer may remain productive throughout or at least be engaged in another activity during the hold period.

Therefore a need exists to develop methods apparatus computer program products and the like that will enhance the user customer experience during the hold period prior to conducting a video conference. The desired aspects of the invention should allow for the user to conduct other functions while waiting on hold for the video conference to begin. In addition to remaining productive during the hold period the desired methods apparatus and computer program products should provide the user customer with useful information pertinent to the impending video conference.

The following presents a simplified summary of one or more embodiments in order to provide a basic understanding of such embodiments. This summary is not an extensive overview of all contemplated embodiments and is intended to neither identify key or critical elements of all embodiments nor delineate the scope of any or all embodiments. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts of one or more embodiments in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

Apparatus methods and computer program products are defined that provide for split screen functionality to be provided to a user device during a hold period prior to a customer service video conference. Specifically according to defined embodiments the present invention provides for a first portion of split screen includes a visual depiction of a queue of users currently awaiting a video conference with the customer service representative. The queue allows for the user customer to gauge how long the hold period will last. In addition to the visual depiction of the hold queue the split screen may provide for other portions of the screen to include other information and or functionality such as but not limited to a widget configured for onsite research related to subject matter of the video conference a widget configured for offsite research related to subject matter of the video conference such as widget including links to content related to the subject matter of the video conference a game application configured to allow the user to play a game during the hold period suggestions for conducting the video conference with one of one or more other customer service associates access to one or more video presentations wherein the video presentations are associated with a subject matter of the video conference service configuration options including at least one of connection speed quality of video or quality of audio and the like.

An apparatus for providing information to a user during a hold period associated with a customer service video conference defines first embodiments of the invention. The apparatus includes a computing platform including a memory and a processing device in communication with the memory. The apparatus further includes a customer service video conferencing application stored in the memory and executable by the processing device. The customer service video conferencing application is configured to cause the processing device to 1 receive a request from a user device to initiate a video conference between the user and a customer service associate 2 in response to receiving the request place the user on hold awaiting the video conference based on the customer service associate being currently unavailable and 3 provide during the hold period a split screen presentation of information to the user device wherein a first portion of the split screen presentation includes a visual depiction of a queue of users currently awaiting a video conference with the customer service representative.

In specific embodiments of the apparatus the customer service video conferencing application is further configured to cause the processing device to provide during the hold period the split screen presentation to the user device wherein the split screen presentation includes two or more portions each portion providing the user at least one of information or functionality. For example the split screen presentation may provide for a dual split screen in which one half of the screen provides specific information and or functionality and the other half of the screen provides additional specific information or functionality. While in another example the split screen presentation may be configured such that one half of the screen provides specific information and or functionality and each of the two remaining quarters of the screen provide specific information and or functionality.

In specific embodiments of the apparatus the customer service video conferencing application is further configured to cause the processing device to provide the visual depiction of the queue including a proximate hold time. In such embodiments of the apparatus the customer service video conferencing application may be further configured to cause the processing device to dynamically adjust the proximate hold time based on actual observed time of a video conference experienced between the customer service associate and one of the queue of users.

In further specific embodiments of the apparatus the customer service video conferencing application is further configured to cause the processing device to provide during the hold period the split screen presentation to the user device such that a second portion of the split screen presentation includes a widget configured for onsite research related to subject matter of the video conference and or a widget configured for offsite research related to subject matter of the video conference such as widget including links to content related to the subject matter of the video conference.

In still further embodiments of the apparatus the customer service video conferencing application is further configured to cause the processing device to provide during the hold period the split screen presentation to the user device such that a second portion of the split screen presentation includes a game application configured to allow the user to play a game during the hold period.

In yet further embodiments of the apparatus the customer service video conferencing application is further configured to cause the processing device to provide during the hold period the split screen presentation to the user device such that a second portion of the split screen presentation includes suggestions for conducting the video conference with one of one or more other customer service associates wherein the other customer service associates currently have shorter hold periods than the customer service associate.

Moreover in additional embodiments of the apparatus the customer service video conferencing application is further configured to cause the processing device to provide during the hold period the split screen presentation to the user device such that a second portion of the split screen presentation includes access to one or more video presentations wherein the video presentations are associated with a subject matter of the video conference.

In additional embodiments of the apparatus the customer service video conferencing application is further configured to cause the processing device to provide during the hold period the split screen presentation to the user device such that a second portion of the split screen presentation includes service configuration options including at least one of connection speed quality of video or quality of audio.

In still further specific embodiments of the apparatus the customer service video conferencing application is further configured to cause the processing device to provide during the hold period the split screen presentation to the user device such that a second portion of the split screen presentation includes a listing of one or more actions for the user to take during the hold period in preparation for the video conference.

A method for providing information to a user during a hold period associated with a customer service video conference provides for second embodiments of the invention. The method includes 1 receiving by a computing device processor a request from a user device that is configured to request a video conference between the user and a customer service associate 2 in response to receiving the request placing by a computing device processor the user on hold awaiting the video conference based on the customer service associate being currently unavailable and 3 providing by a computing device processor during the hold period a split screen presentation of information to the user device wherein a first portion of the split screen presentation includes a visual depiction of a queue of users currently awaiting a video conference with the customer service representative.

A computer program product for providing information to a user during a hold period associated with a customer service video conference defines third embodiments of the invention. The computer program product includes a non transitory computer readable medium. The computer readable medium includes a set of codes for causing a computer to 1 receive a request from a user device that is configured to request a video conference between the user and a customer service associate 2 in response to receive the request place the user on hold awaiting the video conference based on the customer service associate being currently unavailable and 3 provide during the hold period a split screen presentation of information to the user device wherein a first portion of the split screen presentation includes a visual depiction of a queue of users currently awaiting a video conference with the customer service representative.

Thus as described in more details below apparatus methods and computer program products are defined that provide.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends the one or more embodiments comprise the features hereinafter fully described and particularly pointed out in the claims. The following description and the annexed drawings set forth in detail certain illustrative features of the one or more embodiments. These features are indicative however of but a few of the various ways in which the principles of various embodiments may be employed and this description is intended to include all such embodiments and their equivalents.

Embodiments of the invention now may be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which some but not all embodiments of the invention are shown. Indeed the invention may be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure may satisfy applicable legal requirements. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout.

Embodiments of the invention enable users customers to interact with customer service associates representatives over video conferencing and or audio conferencing using a conferencing application running on for example a network server and or the customer s notebook computer. In certain specific embodiments the video conference is conducted between a financial institution associate representative and a financial institution customer. The variety of features may provide a customer an unprecedented balance of convenience personalization and exceptional customer service. Before or at the beginning of a call a customer is given a set of representatives also referred to herein as a customer service associate. The customer may select a representative based on information provided about the representatives such as their numbers of years of experience. While the customer is waiting for the call to commence the customer may be provided information indicating their place in a hold queue and or the wait time until the call commences and may be given relevant information or links to information using the conference application such as by a split screen showing relevant information as well as hold queue and or hold time information. In some cases the customer is given an opportunity to play games or navigate the Internet for topics unrelated to the topic of the call. Once on a call customers are given an opportunity to view and edit documents related to the call. In some instances customers may collaborate on document creation and modification with the representative and the representative or customer may be able to point out sections of relevant documents to the customer such as by highlighting or inserting notes. The conferencing application may also generate an electronic call summary that may be specialized for the representative or the customer. This call summary may record the spoken words and convert them to text and correlate the text with the other interactions between the customer and the representative for example noting within the call log that the representative presented the customer with a specific document at a particular point in the conversation. The conferencing application may enable a customer to schedule a future conference with a representative with whom the customer has previously interacted referred to as a primary representative or with a representative recommended by the primary representative. In some situations it may be advantageous for the conference to switch devices and or include additional participants so the conference application provides the customer flexibility in forwarding the call to other devices or back to the original device and or inviting other participants onto the call.

Referring now to a flowchart illustrates a process flow representing the fundamental stages of a customer s interaction with a business entity which in this example is a financial institution. At Block the customer is triggered to contact the financial institution. Typically the customer has a question about a financial product such as a product the customer is considering or a product the customer already owns. Whatever triggers the customer to initiate contact with the financial institution provides context for the conference regarding subject matter and may also provide the environment and circumstances surrounding the customer. Accordingly various embodiments of the conferencing application were designed to address the needs and concerns of those customers who initiate conferences with the financial institution based on triggers. In order to maximize the customer experience and satisfaction with the conference application and based in part on the triggers to the customer the conference application in some embodiments ensures that the customer can make a personal connection with one or more financial institution representatives who may be able to provide expert advice to the customer regarding complex products or issues over a private and secure platform that overcomes common challenges to existing video technologies.

At Block the customer initiates a conference with the financial institution using the conference application. The customer having been triggered by an interest in a product or a question about a product or otherwise may want to speak with a customer service representative. The customer however may not want to take the time to physically visit a brick and mortar financial institution location. The conference application provides an alternative to visiting a physical location along with numerous advantages to doing so such as the ability to electronically create and edit documents in collaboration with a representative.

In order to initiate a conference a customer may use a customer device such as a computing device like a computer desktop laptop tablet or the like a smartphone or other computing device as represented by computing device of . The computing device may have a video conference application installed in its memory. The video conference application may also be installed and running on one or more financial institution servers such that customers running the video conference application on a customer device can communicate with the conference application running at the financial institution or other business entity. The video conference application for the customer device may be the same or different than the conference application running on the networked servers.

The video conference application provides the customer an opportunity to select a representative with whom to speak in some embodiments. Several representatives may be presented to the customer in a list of representatives. In some embodiments each of the representatives are presented by display of a still moving and or live picture of the representative as well as some information about the representative. In some cases the representative s professional qualifications and experience are presented to the customer for consideration and in some cases additional information about the representative is presented. For example personal interest information may be presented for example the representative s hobbies location and favorite sports teams or favorite television shows may be presented to the customer for consideration. Once the customer has selected a representative to speak with the application may in the event that the customer service associate is not immediately available place the customer on hold for an impending conference with the representative or may present the customer with a date and time in the future for scheduling a call with the representative. The application may then remind the customer of the scheduled call in a variety of ways such as using electronic calendar entries alarms and the like. Either prior to an immediate call an impending call in which the user customer is placed on hold or a scheduled call the customer may input some pre call information to provide context for the call with the representative.

In some cases such as for a premier customer the application may provide all of the customer service associates assigned to the customer or with whom the customer has previously spoken. For example the loan officer the financial planner the personal banker and the like associated with the customer may be provided to the customer for selection during the pre conference representative selection. The application may also rank the representatives either or both of assigned representatives and representatives previously spoken with based on customer input experience in relevant field or otherwise.

While the customer is on hold waiting for a conference call the customer may be presented with one or more productive options while holding. The customer may be presented with information regarding the customer s wait until the connection with a live representative is made such as a visual depiction of the queue of customers waiting for customer service related to for example a specific category of assistance or a specific representative. The visual depiction may also include information related to the time to connection and may include a snooze virtual button or other virtual input mechanism that receives customer input indicating the customer s desire to postpone the video conference with the representative. During the hold the customer may be presented with access to informational videos relevant to the upcoming call. In some instances the videos may be recordings of the representative for whom the customer is waiting or another representative familiar to the customer. Similarly the customer may be presented with a widget or a portion of the application screen such as a portion of a split screen for performing onsite research or offsite research providing games to play while waiting providing a data consumption bar during the hold as well as during the call providing quality of service options such as choices for connection speed quality of video audio or the like providing a listing of documents necessary and or useful for the call and the like. In some instances a widget or split screen portion provides access to the financial institution s online banking platform so that the customer may access information regarding his or her accounts maintained by the financial institution.

Referring again to the next stage of customer interaction at Block is the customer participates in a conference with one or more financial institution representatives using the video conference application. During the conference the customer may be provided with various functions for improving the conference experience for example document sharing visual navigation video chat and call controls and multiple participants.

The application may present to the customer persistent call controls such as for accessing an on demand customer service connection or other representative connection. An interface of the application may provide the customer an opportunity to highlight or select portions of text or graphics presented on the interface such as highlighting portions of documents that are being discussed between the customer and the representative. The control of these shared documents may be retained by the representative or may be with the customer or both. The representative may direct the discussion away from a standard document to something more interactive such that the customer may have the ability to access portions of the document and enter change information in the document. In some instances the application may allow the customer and the representative to switch control of the document back and forth as necessary during the conference.

During a conference a customer and or a representative may need to bring one or more other people into the conference. This may be done by the customer for example by the customer vouching for the additional participant and in some embodiments verifying the additional participant electronically. In some cases credentialing of the additional participant is by a verification process. When an additional representative is required on the conference an interaction log may be provided to the new associate to bring him or her up to speed quickly. The customer may have a trusted group of representatives who may be quickly brought into a conference. If the customer has not interacted with a particular representative before the customer may provide a confirmation of acceptance of a representative based on pre existing filters review of provided representative information or the like.

In some embodiments during a conference using the application a customer is given an opportunity to promote and or demote levels of connectivity. For example the customer may choose to change from textual to audible to visual to audio visual interaction with the financial institution representative and or the opposite. Such channel hopping may be logged such as in an interaction log. Also the customer may auto forward a connection initiated from a representative from one device to another device such as from the customer s tablet computer to a smartphone. In some cases the customer may forward the connection back to the original device or use a cross and or dual channel presentation. For example audio of the conference may be presented using one device and video may be presented using another device.

At Block the customer and or the representative concludes the conference and the video conference application may perform one or more post conference actions. For example an e receipt also called an interaction log may be finalized. The interaction log may be created automatically by the application during the conference and may include a recording and or a textual representation of the words spoken during the conference. The interaction log may but used by the customer and or the representative as a record of the call and the information document shared during the call. From the perspective of the customer the log may be used as a reference when completing tasks after the call has ended such as gathering or completing additional documents or following up as necessary. In addition to voice recordings and written text the log may include for example copies of documents discussed links to other information highlighting and or notes taken during the call and possibly timestamps indicating when in the call various actions occurred or documents were reviewed highlighted and the like. The log may incorporate manual input as well. For example the log may accept confirmation of portions of a conversation from one or both participants. In some instances one or both participants may be able to remove unnecessary or repetitive portions of the log as desired. The log may include inset indications of highlighting of interface items and or documents discussed during the conference. The participants of the conference may have different versions of the log such as versions allowing the customer to comment edit within the log manual and versions allowing the representative to comment edit within the log manually.

In some embodiments after the call has been completed archives of the interaction log and any documents discussed created edited or otherwise are stored by the financial institution and or by the customer device for offline access . These documents may be retrieved by the customer such as by using the application or by logging into the customer s online banking website portal. In some embodiments the application prompts the customer whether to store one or more of the log and or the other document s discussed and prompts the customer regarding the storage location. In some embodiments the customer is also given the option of communicating the log and or other documents to one or more electronic destinations such as to one or more email addresses or the like.

Referring now to a block diagram illustrates an environment wherein a customer participates in a conference with a customer service associate using a customer device and a customer service representative system respectively. The environment also may include a business system other customer systems other business systems and or external websites . The systems and devices communicate with one another over a network and perform one or more of the various steps and or methods according to embodiments of the invention discussed herein.

A customer device may be configured for use by a customer or other user for example to access one or more other business entity applications such as the customer video conference application . The customer device may be or include a computer system server multiple computer system multiple servers or some other computing device configured for use by a user such as a desktop laptop tablet or a mobile communications device such as a smartphone. The mobile device has a communication device communicatively coupled with a processing device which is also communicatively coupled with a memory device and one or more input and or output devices for example an image capture device such as camera and or a microphone. The processing device is configured to control the communication device such that the customer device communicates across the network with one or more other systems for example the customer service associate system . The processing device is also configured to access the memory device in order to read the computer readable instructions which in some embodiments include a customer video conference application . The memory device also may have a datastore or database for storing pieces of data for access by the processing device .

The customer service associate system may be a workstation used by a representative to communicate with customers using the video conference application. In some embodiments the customer service associate system may communicate with one or more of the other systems or devices and may perform one or more steps and or one or more methods as described herein. In some embodiments the customer service associate system includes a communication device communicatively coupled with a processing device which is also communicatively coupled with a memory device one or more input and or output devices for example an image capture device such as camera and or a microphone. The processing device controls the communication device such that the customer service associate system communicates across the network with one or more other systems or devices. The processing device is also configured to access the memory device in order to read the computer readable instructions which in some embodiments include a customer service associate video conference application having instructions for communicating with the customer video conference application running on the customer device and or the server video conference application running on the business entity system . In some embodiments the customer service associate system includes one or more datastores for storing and providing one or more pieces of data used by the representative during conferences with customers.

A business entity system is a computer system server multiple computer systems and or servers or the like. The business entity system in the embodiments shown has a communication device communicably coupled with a processing device which is also communicably coupled with a memory device . The processing device is configured to control the communication device such that the business entity system communicates across the network with one or more other systems. The processing device is also configured to access the memory device in order to read the computer readable instructions which in some embodiments includes a server video conference application . The memory device also has a datastore or database for storing pieces of data for access by the processing device . In some embodiments the customer service associate video conference application interacts with the server video conference application to access information document or other data for use during a conference call. In some embodiments a product information application retrieves information regarding products being discussed during a call between a customer and a representative and provides the information to the customer and or the representative during the call and or after the call has ended.

The applications and are for instructing the processing devices and to perform various steps of the methods discussed herein and or other steps and or similar steps. In various embodiments one or more of the applications and are included in the computer readable instructions stored in a memory device of one or more systems other than the systems and or device . For example in some embodiments the application is stored and configured for being accessed by a processing device of one or more other customer systems connected with a representative through network . In various embodiments the applications and stored and executed by different systems devices are different. In some embodiments the applications and stored and executed by different systems may be similar and may be configured to communicate with one another and in some embodiments the applications and may be considered to be working together as a singular application despite being stored and executed on different systems. In some embodiments the applications and stored and executed by the customer device and or an application stored and executed on one of the other systems is a stand alone application and does not necessarily communicate or rely on any other applications for data processing or otherwise except for providing a connection with a representative through the application .

In various embodiments one of the systems discussed above such as the business entity system is more than one system and the various components of the system are not collocated and in various embodiments there are multiple components performing the functions indicated herein as a single device. For example in one embodiment multiple processing devices perform the functions of the processing device of the business entity system described herein. In various embodiments the business entity system includes one or more of the customer service associate system the other business entity systems and or any other system or component used in conjunction with or to perform any of the method steps discussed herein.

In various embodiments the business entity system the customer device the customer service associate system and or other systems may perform all or part of a one or more method steps discussed above and or other method steps in association with the method steps discussed above. Furthermore some or all the systems devices discussed here in association with other systems or without association with other systems in association with steps being performed manually or without steps being performed manually may perform one or more of the steps of method the other methods discussed below or other methods processes or steps discussed herein or not discussed herein.

Referring now to a block diagram is provided of an apparatus configured for allowing users to exit the customer service video conference application while remaining on hold and subsequently be notified when their video conference is about to be initiated. The apparatus includes a computing platform having a memory and a processor in communication with the memory . The memory of apparatus stores customer service video conferencing application which is configured to provide users customers the capability to conduct a customer service video conference.

As such customer service video conferencing application is configured to receive a first input from a user device that serves as a request for a video conference with a customer service associate . As previously noted in specific embodiments the customer service video conferencing application is configured to allow the user to select a specific customer service associate based on criteria deemed important to the user customer. For example the customer may select a customer service associate based on their knowledge of the subject matter of the video conference familiarity with a preferred language for communicating during the video conference similar interests location affinities or the like.

In response to receiving the first input the customer service video conferencing application is further configured to invoke an on hold function which places the user on hold or in a hold queue based on the customer service associate currently be unavailable for example the customer service may be conducting a video conference with another customer or the like. In specific embodiments once the user customer is placed on hold the user will be presented via a display associated with the user device that requested the video conference a visual depiction of the hold queue which may indicate the place that the user currently stands in the hold queue specific to the customer service associate. In addition the visual depiction of the hold queue may include a proximate wait time which may be based on the average time for a conference. It should be noted that the average time for a conference may further be refined based on the average time for a conference of the subject matter desired to be discussed during the conference currently in the hold queue.

The customer service video conferencing application is further configured to receive a second input from the user device that requests an exit from the customer service video conferencing application while the user remains on hold for the pending video conference. In this regard the exiting of the application does not close the application but rather places the application in a sleep mode. Exiting of the application by the user allows the user to perform any other function on the user device such as activating and implementing any other application program module or the like on the user device.

Further the customer service video conferencing application is configured to communicate a notification to the user of the imminence of the video conference based on the impending availability of the customer service associate. For example the notification may be communicated when the user communicate is first i.e. next in line for participating in a video conference with the customer service associate. The notification may be in the form of a visual notification alert that appears on the user device display notifying the user of their position in the hold queue and requesting that the user re activate the customer service video conferencing application . In addition to the visual notification or in lieu of the visual notification an audible notification or alert may be provided such as an audio ringtone chime or the like which upon recognition by the user prompts the user to re activate the customer service video conferencing application .

Referring to another block diagram is provided of an apparatus configured for presenting a split screen presentation of information and or functionality to users during a hold period prior to a customer service video conference in accordance with embodiments of the present invention. The apparatus includes a computing platform having a memory and a processor in communication with the memory . The memory of apparatus stores customer service video conferencing application which is configured to provide users customers the capability to conduct a customer service video conference.

Similar to the embodiment described in the customer service video conferencing application is configured to receive a request from a user device to initiate a video conference with a customer service associate . As previously noted in specific embodiments the customer service video conferencing application is configured to allow the user to select a specific customer service associate based on criteria deemed important to the user customer.

In response to receiving the request the customer service video conferencing application is further configured to invoke an on hold function which places the user on hold or in a hold queue based on the customer service associate currently be unavailable for example the customer service may be conducting a video conference with another customer temporarily away from their work station or the like.

In accordance with embodiments once the user customer is placed on hold the customer service video conferencing application is configured to provide the user device with a split screen presentation of information functionality. In this regard the split screen presentation is defined as more than two portions or separate areas within the displayable area such that each portion area presents distinct and separate information or functionality. Further in accordance with specific embodiments of the invention customer service video conferencing application is configured to present a first portion of the split screen presentation that includes a visual depiction of a queue of users currently awaiting a conference with the customer customer service associate. In addition the visual depiction of the hold queue may include a proximate wait time which may be based on the average time for a video conference.

In addition to the first portion the split screen presentation will include one or more other portions or areas of the split screen which are configured to include other information or functionality related or unrelated to the subject matter of the impending video conference. Specific examples of the information or functionality provided in the other portions are provided for in the discussion associated with infra.

Referring to a block diagram is depicted of an apparatus configured for providing user customers with video conferences and related information functionality during hold periods while awaiting the video conference in accordance with embodiments of the present invention. Specifically provides description of alternative embodiments of the present invention. As previously described the apparatus includes a computing platform having one or more processors and a memory in communication with the processor s . The memory may comprise volatile and non volatile memory such as read only and or random access memory RAM and ROM EPROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. Further memory may include one or more flash memory cells or may be any secondary or tertiary storage device such as magnetic media optical media tape or soft or hard disk.

Further computing platform also includes processor which may be an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other chipset processor logic circuit or other data processing device. Processor or another processor such as ASIC may execute an application programming interface API not shown in that interfaces with any resident programs such as customer service video conference application or the like stored in the memory of the apparatus .

Processor may include various processing subsystems not shown in embodied in hardware firmware software and combinations thereof that enable the functionality of apparatus and the operability of the apparatus on a wired or wireless network. For example processing subsystems allow for initiating and maintaining communications and exchanging data with other devices in the network. For the disclosed aspects processing subsystems of processor may include any subsystem used in conjunction with customer service video conference application or subcomponents or sub modules thereof.

The memory of apparatus includes customer service video conferencing application is configured to receive a first input i.e. request from a user device to initiate a video conference with a customer service associate . In response to receiving the first input the customer service video conferencing application is further configured to invoke an on hold function which places the user on hold or in a hold queue based on the customer service associate currently be unavailable for example the customer service may be conducting a video conference with another customer temporarily away from their work station or the like. It should be noted that if the customer service associate is currently available the need to invoke the on hold function is obviated.

In addition to invoking the on hold function prior to a video conference the application may further be configured to invoke the on hold function during a video conference as the discretion of the customer or the financial institution associate if the customer or the financial institution associate is interrupted or otherwise becomes unavailable during the video conference.

In accordance with certain embodiments once the user customer is placed on hold the customer service video conferencing application may be configured to provide the user device with a split screen presentation of information functionality. Further in accordance with specific embodiments of the invention customer service video conferencing application is configured to present a first portion of the split screen presentation that includes a visual depiction of a queue of users currently awaiting a conference with the customer customer service associate. En example of a visual depiction of a queue of users is shown and described in relation to infra.

In addition the visual depiction of the hold queue may include a proximate hold time which may be based on the average time for a conference. In specific embodiments of the invention the customer service video conferencing application may be configured to dynamically adjust the proximate hold time based on actual conference time experienced by a user who was previously in the queue of users awaiting a conference with the customer service associate. For example if the average time for a conference is ten minutes and the current conference lasted five minutes the proximate hold time may be decreased by five minutes to reflect the less than average conference time of the current conference. Conversely if the current conference lasted minutes the proximate hold time may be increased by twenty minutes to reflect the more than average conference time of the current conference. In addition the proximate hold time that is indicated to the user may reflect the average conference time for a conference of the subject matter for which those in the queue of users desire to discuss. For example if one of the users in the queue has indicated a desire to conduct a video conference concerning home mortgage loans and the average home mortgage loan conference lasts 25 minutes the proximate hold time will be determined based partially on the 25 minute average conference time for home mortgage loans.

In addition to the first portion the split screen presentation will include one or more other portions or areas of the split screen which are configured to include other information or functionality related or unrelated to the subject matter of the impending video conference. Since the portions only occupy a designated area of the user device in certain embodiments the portions may be activatable such as by clicking tapping or the like to increase the portion to full view display i.e. maximizing the portion to full screen display .

The following provides examples of what information or functionality may be displayed in the other portions of the split screen presentation . It should be noted that these are examples only and are not intended to be limiting. In addition while the information and functionality are discussed herein in relation to a split screen presentation it should be noted that in other embodiments of the invention such information and functionality may be provided by the customer service video conferencing application absent the split screen presentation. In other words the information and functionality discussed herein may be provided during in stand alone presentations during the hold period based on business entity configuration and or user configuration.

The other portions may include an onsite or offsite widget . The widget may be configured for researching the subject matter of the impending video conference. An onsite widget may be associated with the business entity conducting the video conference. For example if the business entity is a financial institution the onsite widget may provide access to online banking account balances or the like which the user may desire to access in preparation for the video conference. An offsite widget may provide access to non business entity related content such as links to general information related to the subject matter of the video conference. If the user chooses to access a link provided in an offsite widget the user will exit the customer service video conferencing application but remain on hold and be notified via visual and or audio alert when their video conference is about to commence.

Additionally other portion may include service configuration that is configured to allow the user to select and or adjust the level of service provided by the video conference. For example the user may select a desired connection speed quality of audio quality of video or the like for the impending video conference. The user s data rate plan with their network service provider may dictate what level of service they desire for the video conference.

Moreover the service configuration may recommend suggest that the user transfer the connection to alternate network for example transfer the connection from a cellular network to a Wi Fi network to maximize service quality and or minimize cost. In addition service configuration may recommend suggest that the user conduct a telephone conference as opposed to a video conference based on the subject matter of their video conference. If the user chooses to transfer from the video conference to a telephone conference the application may be configured to seamlessly transfer the communication channel without the user having to perform any other functions and or without the user losing their position of the hold queue.

In addition other portion may include a game application which is configured to allow the user to play a game during the hold period. Other forms of entertainment may also be provided in other portion such as movie trailers music videos news entries songs and the like. In a specific embodiment other portion may include music video entertainment programming provided by the financial institution or such programming may be configured to be programming chosen by the customer. In addition advertising may be provided alone or in conjunction with the game application or other entertainment forms to provide a revenue stream for the business entity.

In other embodiments other portion may suggestions for conducting the video conference with alternate customer service associates who currently have shorter hold periods than the customer service associated selected by or assigned to the user. For example one or more alternate customer service associates having similar attributes to the currently selected or assigned customer service associate or otherwise being knowledgeable in the subject matter of the video conference may be suggested to the user as an alternative option for conducting the video conference. In addition to suggesting the alternate customer service associates a current average hold time for each of the alternate customer service associates may be displayed so that the user may choose a customer service associate that minimizes their hold period. In addition search functionality may be provided to the user that allows for the user to search for an alternative customer service associate based on subject matter similar attributes least amount of hold period or the like.

The other portion may additionally provide access in the form of links or the like to pre recorded video presentations related to the subject matter of the video conference or otherwise related to the selected customer service associate. In this regard the video presentations may be listed or otherwise displayed in order of their relevancy to the subject matter of the video conference and or video presentations conducted by the selected customer service associate may be listed displayed first. For example one or more of the pre recorded video presentations may be conducted by the selected customer service associate. In such embodiments the customer service associate may provide information about themselves i.e. an introduction their background or the like or the customer service associate may provide information related to the subject matter of the video conference. In the event that the user accesses and views one or more of the video presentations the customer service associate is provided just prior to conducting the video conference details as to which video presentations the user viewed during the hold period so as to further facilitate and add efficiency to the video conference process.

In addition other portion may include a list of actions e.g. a to do list and associated instructions which the user may be asked to take to assist in the video conference or are otherwise required to be taken in preparation for the video conference. The list of actions may be in the form of a checklist such that the user may check off items form the list once they are performed. Actions may include completing forms uploading documents forms to a business entity server portal for review approval discussion during the video conference. The actions may require that the user exit the customer service video conferencing application to perform the necessary functions however as previously discussed the user may exit the application without losing their place in the hold queue. In addition the other portion may provide for a staging presentation area for the papers or documents that customer wishes to or has been instructed to upload share during the video conference. In addition the staging area may provide for the user to create notes or a to do list of the topics they wish to cover during the video conference. In such embodiments of the invention the notes or to do list may be visible to the financial institution associate prior to and or during the video conference. In other embodiments the application may be configured to capture the notes and or to do list by recording the voice inputs of the customer.

In addition the customer service video conferencing application may include a storage unit i.e. memory configured to store the list of actions or the documents prepared for the video conference in the event that the video conference is interrupted accidentally or on purpose or otherwise does not occur i.e. postponed or the video conference is transferred to a voice only channel or a text chat session.

Additionally the customer service video conferencing application may be configured to provide for display of a data consumption information indicator in the form or a data consumption bar or the like which indicates the current amount of data transferred and or an approximation of the amount of the data that will transferred during the video conference based on the subject matter of the video conference and the average time and or average amount of data transferred during a video conference.

In addition the customer service video conferencing application may be configured to provide an Automated Response System ARS function to provide the customer assistance with pre video conference questions they may have about the video conference or the subject matter purpose of the video conference. The ARS system may provide for the customer to input their question and based on keywords in the question present the customer with one or more speculative answers to the question.

In addition the customer service video conferencing application may be configured to provide for a pause hold feature which is configured to be activated by the user to pause the hold period. In this regard if the user wishes to prolong the period of time for which they are on hold because something the interim has occurred which will prohibit them from participating in the immediate future they user may activate the pause hold feature . The pause hold feature may be configured such that the user does not lose their place in the queue of user . For example if the user was fourth in line when they activated the pause hold feature they will remain fourth in line until they deactivate the pause hold feature .

In addition the customer service video conferencing application may be configured to provide for postponement feature that is configured to be engaged by the customer to postpone the video conference until a later time. Activation of the function may result in display of input screen for a future appointment time or the like. Scheduling of a future appointment may require the customer be online at the scheduled appointment time or the application may be configured to call the customer prior to the appointment time. The call may be a telephone call or a visual display on a computing device on which the application is executed.

Moreover the customer service video application may be configured to include chat now functionality in the form of an activatable chat now key or the like which upon activation by the customer instantaneously activates a chat session voice or text with a financial institution associate. The chat session can occur in lieu of the scheduled video conference or can be conducted in preparation for the pending video conference e.g. ask questions pertaining to the to do list or the like .

The customer service video conferencing application is further configured to allow the user to exit the application while remaining on hold. As such the application is configured to receive an input from the user device that requests an exit from the customer service video conferencing application while the user remains on hold for the pending video conference. In this regard the exiting of the application does not close the application but rather places the application in a sleep mode. Exiting of the application by the user allows the user to perform any other function on the user device such as activating and implementing any other application program module or the like on the user device.

Further the customer service video conferencing application is configured to communicate a notification to the user of the imminence of the video conference based on the impending availability of the customer service associate. For example the notification may be communicated when the user communicate is first i.e. next in line for participating in a video conference with the customer service associate. By communicating the notification when the user is next in line as opposed to when the video conference actually begins the user is afforded the time necessary to properly align themselves with the video camera to insure proper video feed is provided to the customer service associate. The notification may be in the form of a visual notification alert that appears on the user device display notifying the user of their position in the hold queue and requesting that the user re activate the customer service video conferencing application . In addition to the visual notification or in lieu of the visual notification an audio notification alert may be provided such as an audio ringtone chime or the like which upon recognition by the user prompts the user to re activate the customer service video conferencing application . Moreover notification may be provided by representing the application such as re presenting the split screen presentation or a presentation of the hold queue to the user that indicates that the user is next in line for the video conference.

Turning the reader s attention to a block diagram is provided of an exemplary split screen presentation of information functionality during a hold period prior to a video conference in accordance with embodiments of the present invention. The split screen presentation may be displayed on any computing device on which the user has requested a video conference. Such computing devices may include but are not limited to a personal computer a laptop computer a tablet computer a smartphone or the like. The split screen presentation includes a first portion that occupies the upper half of the split screen presentation . The first portion includes a visual indication of the queue of users awaiting a video conference with the selected or assigned customer service associate. In the illustrated embodiment the visual indication includes the type of associate that the user is holding for as defined by the customer service associate s field of expertise i.e. the subject matter for the video conference. Additionally the visual indication provides the user s current numerical position in the queue and notifies that the user that they may exit the app and that both visual and audible notification will be provided shortly before they are connected with the customer service associate. In additional embodiments not shown in the first portion may include the proximate hold time for the user in conjunction with or in lieu of the position in the queue of users.

The split screen presentation additionally includes two other portions and . By way of example only other portion located in the bottom left hand corner includes a widget which provides the user functionality and is typically related to the subject matter of the video conference. The widget may be onsite widget such as a widget associated with the business entity conducting the video conference or an offsite widget related to an external entity. In addition other portion includes links to accessible video presentations. The links may be text that briefly describes the topic of the pre recorded video presentation or the links may thumbnail images of the video presentations with an accompanying topic. The links may be sorted presented in order of their relevance to the subject matter of the video conference or pre recorded video presentations conducted by the selected customer service associate may be presented first. Video presentations provided for may be scrollable and or searchable within the provided area. Additionally selection of a video by the user may automatically provide for full screen display of the video presentation or may be configured such that the user may choose full screen presentation of the video. It should be noted that the split screen presentation shown in may include more or less than the three portions shown. In addition as described in relation to the other portions and may provide for additional information or functionality other than a widget and or access to pre recorded video presentations.

In one specific embodiment of the invention one of the other portions and or are configured to be a private share screen widget that is accessible and visible only to the customer s and not at any point in time visible or accessible to the financial institution associate. Such a private share screen widget is beneficial if more than two customers for example a husband and wife are participating in a three way video conference with the financial institution associate from different locations i.e. using different devices and the two customers desire to compare notes virtually without the financial institution associate seeing or having access to the notes or documents displayed in the private share screen .

In summary embodiments of the invention are directed to systems methods and computer program products for split screen functionality to be provided to a user device during a hold period prior to a customer service video conference. Specifically according to defined embodiments the present invention provides for a first portion of split screen includes a visual depiction of a queue of users currently awaiting a video conference with the customer service representative. The queue allows for the user customer to gauge how long the hold period will last. In addition to the visual depiction of the hold queue the split screen may provide for other portions of the screen to include other information and or functionality such as but not limited to a widget configured for onsite research related to subject matter of the video conference a widget configured for offsite research related to subject matter of the video conference such as widget including links to content related to the subject matter of the video conference a game application configured to allow the user to play a game during the hold period suggestions for conducting the video conference with one of one or more other customer service associates access to one or more video presentations wherein the video presentations are associated with a subject matter of the video conference service configuration options including at least one of connection speed quality of video or quality of audio and the like.

This application incorporates by reference in their entirety each of the following applications filed concurrently herewith. Each application is assigned to the same inventive entity as the present invention 

United States Patent Application Ser. No. 13 651 966 entitled SYSTEM PROVIDING AN INTERACTIVE CONFERENCE filed Oct. 15 2012 in the name of applicant Calman et al. 

United States Patent Application Ser. No. 13 652 120 entitled PROVIDING A RECORD OF AN INTERACTIVE CONFERENCE filed Oct. 15 2012 in the name of applicant Calman et al. 

United States Patent Application Ser. No. 13 651 798 entitled ADAPTIVE SCAFFOLDING OF LEVELS OF CONNECTIVITY DURING A CONFERENCE filed Oct. 15 2012 in the name of applicant Calman et al. 

United States Patent Application Ser. No. 13 651 674 entitled FUNCTIONALITY DURING A HOLD PERIOD PRIOR TO A CUSTOMER SERVICE VIDEO CONFERENCE filed Oct. 15 2012 in the name of applicant Calman et al. 

United States Patent Application Ser. No. 13 652 326 entitled MULTIPLE PARTICIPANT CUSTOMER SERVICE CONFERENCE filed October 15 2012 in the name of applicant Calman et al. 

United States Patent Application Ser. No. 13 652 093 entitled REPRESENTATIVE SELECTION FOR CUSTOMER SERVICE CONFERENCE filed Oct. 15 2012 in the name of applicant Calman et al. and

United States Patent Application Ser. No. 13 652 175 entitled REPRESENTATIVE PRE SELECTION FOR CUSTOMER SERVICE CONFERENCE filed Oct. 15 2012 in the name of applicant Calman et al.

Although many embodiments of the present invention have just been described above the present invention may be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will satisfy applicable legal requirements. Also it will be understood that where possible any of the advantages features functions devices and or operational aspects of any of the embodiments of the present invention described and or contemplated herein may be included in any of the other embodiments of the present invention described and or contemplated herein and or vice versa. In addition where possible any terms expressed in the singular form herein are meant to also include the plural form and or vice versa unless explicitly stated otherwise. Accordingly the terms a and or an shall mean one or more even though the phrase one or more is also used herein. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout.

As will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art in view of this disclosure the present invention may include and or be embodied as an apparatus including for example a system machine device computer program product and or the like as a method including for example a business method computer implemented process and or the like or as any combination of the foregoing. Accordingly embodiments of the present invention may take the form of an entirely business method embodiment an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code stored procedures in a database etc. an entirely hardware embodiment or an embodiment combining business method software and hardware aspects that may generally be referred to herein as a system. Furthermore embodiments of the present invention may take the form of a computer program product that includes a computer readable storage medium having one or more computer executable program code portions stored therein. As used herein a processor which may include one or more processors may be configured to perform a certain function in a variety of ways including for example by having one or more general purpose circuits perform the function by executing one or more computer executable program code portions embodied in a computer readable medium and or by having one or more application specific circuits perform the function.

It will be understood that any suitable computer readable medium may be utilized. The computer readable medium may include but is not limited to a non transitory computer readable medium such as a tangible electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared and or semiconductor system device and or other apparatus. For example in some embodiments the non transitory computer readable medium includes a tangible medium such as a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory a compact disc read only memory CD ROM and or some other tangible optical and or magnetic storage device. In other embodiments of the present invention however the computer readable medium may be transitory such as for example a propagation signal including computer executable program code portions embodied therein.

One or more computer executable program code portions for carrying out operations of the present invention may include object oriented scripted and or unscripted programming languages such as for example Java Perl Smalltalk C SAS SQL Python Objective C JavaScript and or the like. In some embodiments the one or more computer executable program code portions for carrying out operations of embodiments of the present invention are written in conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming languages and or similar programming languages. The computer program code may alternatively or additionally be written in one or more multi paradigm programming languages such as for example F .

Some embodiments of the present invention are described herein with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of apparatus and or methods. It will be understood that each block included in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and or combinations of blocks included in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams may be implemented by one or more computer executable program code portions. These one or more computer executable program code portions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer and or some other programmable data processing apparatus in order to produce a particular machine such that the one or more computer executable program code portions which execute via the processor of the computer and or other programmable data processing apparatus create mechanisms for implementing the steps and or functions represented by the flowchart s and or block diagram block s .

The one or more computer executable program code portions may be stored in a transitory and or non transitory computer readable medium e.g. a memory etc. that can direct instruct and or cause a computer and or other programmable data processing apparatus to function in a particular manner such that the computer executable program code portions stored in the computer readable medium produce an article of manufacture including instruction mechanisms which implement the steps and or functions specified in the flowchart s and or block diagram block s .

The one or more computer executable program code portions may also be loaded onto a computer and or other programmable data processing apparatus to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer and or other programmable apparatus. In some embodiments this produces a computer implemented process such that the one or more computer executable program code portions which execute on the computer and or other programmable apparatus provide operational steps to implement the steps specified in the flowchart s and or the functions specified in the block diagram block s . Alternatively computer implemented steps may be combined with and or replaced with operator and or human implemented steps in order to carry out an embodiment of the present invention.

While certain exemplary embodiments have been described and shown in the accompanying drawings it is to be understood that such embodiments are merely illustrative of and not restrictive on the broad invention and that this invention not be limited to the specific constructions and arrangements shown and described since various other changes combinations omissions modifications and substitutions in addition to those set forth in the above paragraphs are possible. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that various adaptations modifications and combinations of the just described embodiments can be configured without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention. Therefore it is to be understood that within the scope of the appended claims the invention may be practiced other than as specifically described herein.

