---

title: Integrated messaging
abstract: An system, apparatus, and methods for integrated messaging are disclosed. The apparatus may include a user interface engine, an authorization module and a messaging module. The user interface engine receives input describing a recipient and a message to be received by the recipient. The authorization module generates an authorization signal indicating whether the recipient is authorized to exchange messages via a group messaging engine. The authorization module is coupled to the user interface engine to receive the input describing the recipient. The messaging module selectively transmits the message for dispatch to a user device of the recipient via the group messaging engine or a fallback messaging service based at least in part on the authorization signal. The messaging module is coupled to the authorization module to receive the authorization signal and coupled to the user interface engine to receive the input describing the recipient and the message.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09641609&OS=09641609&RS=09641609
owner: Google Inc.
number: 09641609
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120503
---
This application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 e of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 604 448 entitled Integrated Messaging filed on Feb. 28 2012 the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.

The present disclosure relates to electronic communication. In particular the present disclosure relates to a system methods and apparatus for integrated messaging.

Social networks and other types of electronic communication can connect users by providing them with functionality for viewing and commenting on each other s social stream. Other features to facilitate messaging between members of a social network have also been developed.

While users can access these social networks on their portable electronic devices such as smartphones and tablets via the Internet Internet access from these portable electronic devices can at times be unavailable or intermittent and prevent users from sending or receiving messages to one another. Additionally a user might be required to open and close several applications to determine whether messages can be sent or received and may be limited to sending or receiving messages when access to the Internet is again available.

Current implementations have been limited in providing a more reliable and seamless messaging experience.

The present disclosure overcomes the deficiencies and limitations described in the Background section at least in part by providing a system methods and apparatus for integrated messaging. In one innovative aspect the apparatus may include a processor a memory coupled to the processor a user interface engine an authorization module and a messaging module. The user interface engine is stored in the memory and executable by the processor to receive input describing a recipient and a message to be received by the recipient. The authorization module is stored in the memory and executable by the processor to generate an authorization signal indicating whether the recipient is authorized to exchange messages via a group messaging engine. The authorization module is coupled to the user interface engine to receive the input describing the recipient. The messaging module is stored in the memory and executable by the processor to selectively transmit the message for dispatch to a user device of the recipient via the group messaging engine or a fallback messaging service based at least in part on the authorization signal. The messaging module is coupled to the authorization module to receive the authorization signal and coupled to the user interface engine to receive the input describing the recipient and the message.

In another innovative aspect a computer implemented method for integrated messaging includes receiving user input describing a recipient and a message to be received by the recipient and determining whether the recipient is authorized to exchange messages via a group messaging engine. The group messaging engine is configured to exchange messages between two or more users using a native messaging protocol. The message is transmitted for dispatch using the native messaging protocol to a user device of the recipient via the group messaging engine if the recipient is determined to be authorized and is transmitted using a fallback messaging protocol for dispatch to the user device of the recipient via a fallback messaging service if the recipient is determined not to be authorized.

Other aspects include corresponding systems methods and apparatus including computer program products. The systems methods and apparatus disclosed below are advantageous in a number of respects. For example they provide a mechanism for a user to backup and retrieve messages sent via various fallback messaging services provide a mechanism to send and receive messages on a user device even if the user device is unable to connect to a network such as the Internet provide a mechanism to exchange messages between users of a messaging group using various messaging services and provide a seamless user messaging experience even if messages have been sent via a fallback messaging service. However this summary of features and advantages is not all inclusive and many additional features and advantages are within the scope of the present disclosure. Moreover it should be noted that the language used in the present disclosure has been principally selected for readability and instructional purposes and not to limit the scope of the subject matter disclosed herein.

The social network server is a server for providing a social networking service. In the depicted embodiment the social network server is coupled to the network via signal line . In some embodiments the social network server includes one or more processors and one or more storage devices storing data or instructions for execution by the one or more processors. For example the social network server is a server a server array or any other computing device or group of computing devices having data processing storing and communication capabilities. In other embodiments the social network server is a virtual server i.e. a virtual machine implemented via software. For example the virtual server operates in a host server environment and accesses the physical hardware of the host server including for example a processor memory storage network interfaces etc. via an abstraction layer e.g. a virtual machine manager . The social network server interacts with the other entities and of the system via the network . In other embodiments the social network server is coupled to and interacts with the SMS gateway directly via signal line . The social network server is also coupled for communication with the user devices . . . via for example the network a combination of the network and the mobile network or the mobile network via a dedicated signal path. It should be understood that the social network server can be stored in any combination of the devices and servers or in only one of the devices or servers.

The social network server includes a social network software application . The social network software application is software including routines for providing functionality for a social network. In some embodiments the social network software application is a set of instructions executable by the processor see for providing the functionality for the social network. In other embodiments the social network software application is stored in the memory see of the social network server and is executable by the processor see . In the foregoing embodiments the social network software application may be adapted for cooperation and communication with the processor see and the other components of the social network server via the bus see . Although only one social network server is shown multiple social network servers may be included in the system .

A social network is any type of social structure where the users are connected by one or more common features. The common features include relationships connections e.g. friendship family work an interest etc. The common features are provided by one or more social networking systems such as those included in the system including explicitly defined relationships and relationships implied by social connections with other online users where the relationships form a social graph .

In some examples the social graph can reflect a mapping of these users and how they are related. Furthermore it should be understood that the social network server and the social network software application are representative of one social network and that there may be multiple social networks coupled to the network each having its own server application and social graph . For example a first social network is more directed to business networking a second more directed to or centered on academics a third more directed to local business a fourth directed to dating and others of general interest or a specific focus. In some embodiments the social graph is server hardware and a data repository for managing the data describing the social graphs of the users of various social networks including the social network represented by the social network server and the social network software application . In other embodiments the social graph is included in and operable by the social network server or is directly coupled to and accessible by the social network server via a signal line not shown .

The group messaging engine is software including routines for exchanging messages between a group of users . In some embodiments the group messaging engine is operable on the social network server . In other embodiments the group messaging engine is operable on the client user device . While only illustrates the social network server and user device as including the group messaging engine in practice any of the depicted devices as well as other devices such as third party servers could include the group messaging engine .

The user devices . . . are computing devices having data processing and data communication capabilities. In some embodiments the user device is a handheld wireless computing device which is capable of sending and receiving voice and data communications. For example the user device may include a processor a memory a power source and one or more network interfaces to broadcast and receive control data voice data and or network data via radio signals. The user device may also include one or more of a graphics processor a high resolution touchscreen a physical keyboard forward and rear facing cameras sensors such as accelerometers and or gyroscopes a GPS receiver a Bluetooth module memory storing applicable firmware and various physical connection interfaces e.g. USB HDMI headset jack etc. etc. Additionally an operating system for managing the hardware and resources of the user device application programming interfaces APIs for providing applications access to the hardware and resources a user interface module for generating and displaying interfaces for user interaction and input and applications such as applications for making phone calls video calls web browsing messaging social networking gaming capturing digital video and or images etc. may be stored and operable on the user device . In some embodiments a user device comprises a workstation computer a desktop computer a laptop computer a netbook computer a tablet computer a smartphone a set top box unit an Internet Protocol connected smart TV including a computer processor capable of receiving viewer input accessing video content on computer networks such as the Internet and executing software routines to provide enhanced functionality and interactivity to viewers or the like. In other embodiments different user devices . . . comprise different types of computing devices. For example the user device is a smartphone the user device is a mobile phone of the non smart phone variety and the user device is a tablet computer. In some embodiments the user device is a client or terminal device. The user devices . . . in are included by way of example. While illustrates three or more user devices the present disclosure applies to any system architecture having one or more user devices.

In some embodiments the user device is coupled to the mobile network via signal lines and and coupled to the network via signal line . The user interacts with the user device via signal line . In other embodiments the user device is coupled to the mobile network via signal line and the user interacts with the user device via signal line . In yet other embodiments the user device is coupled to the network via signal line and the user interacts with the user device via signal line .

In some embodiments the user device includes the group messaging application . The group messaging application is software including routines for exchanging messages with other users via the group messaging engine . For example the group messaging application is operable to instruct the user device to render user interfaces receive user input and send information to and receive information from the group messaging engine . In some embodiments the group messaging application is a set of instructions executable by the processor see to provide the functionality described herein. In other embodiments the group messaging application is stored in the memory see of the user device and is accessible and executable by the processor see to provide the functionality described herein. In the foregoing embodiments the group messaging application may be adapted for cooperation and communication with the processor see and other components of the user device via the bus see . Additional structure and functionality of the group messaging application is discussed below with reference to at least below. While only illustrates the user device as including the group messaging application in practice any number of user devices could include it.

The network is a conventional type wired or wireless and may have any number of configurations such as a star configuration token ring configuration or other known configurations. Furthermore the network may comprise a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN e.g. the Internet and or any other interconnected data path across which multiple devices may communicate. In yet other embodiments the network may be a peer to peer network. The network may also be coupled to or includes portions of the mobile network or other telecommunications networks for sending data using a variety of different communication protocols including short messaging service SMS multimedia messaging service MMS eXtended Messaging Service XMS hypertext transfer protocol HTTP secure hypertext transfer protocol HTTPS direct data connection wireless access protocol WAP various email protocols etc. In yet other embodiments the network includes Bluetooth communication networks for sending and receiving data.

A network data connection is a data link that couples a user device to the network for communication with the connection server the social network server and the other entities of the system coupled to the network . A user device may be coupled to the network either directly or indirectly. In the depicted embodiment the user devices and connect directly to the network via signal lines and respectively. In this embodiment the user devices and include a wireless network interface controller for sending and receiving data packets to an access point of the network . For example the user devices and may be Wi Fi enabled devices which connect to wireless local area networks WLANs such as wireless hotspots. In other embodiments the user device indirectly connects to the network via a signal line mobile network and signal line . For example the user device connects to the network via a wireless wide area network WWAN of the mobile network . In this embodiment the mobile network routes the network data packets sent and received by the user device over the mobile network and signal line . Signal lines and are depicted using dashed lines to illustrate that a network data connection established via these signal lines and can become unavailable.

The mobile network is a cellular network including distributed radio networks and a hub. In some embodiments the radio networks include groups of transceiver nodes i.e. cell sites which are distributed over a geographic area. Each group of transceiver nodes is controlled by a controller device either within the radio network or hub of the mobile phone network . The transceiver nodes communicate wirelessly over radio channels with nearby user devices . The controller devices determine which of the transceiver nodes is best situated to receive and send data to a nearby user device and controls handovers from transceiver node to transceiver node as the user device moves in and out of range. The mobile network and user devices may use a multiplexing protocol or a combination of multiplexing protocols to communicate including frequency division multiple access FDMA time division multiple access TDMA code division multiple access CDMA space division multiple access SDMA wavelength division multiple access WDMA and random access protocols or any derivative protocols such as orthogonal frequency division multiple access OFDMA orthogonal frequency hopping multiple access OFHMA etc. The mobile network and user devices may also employ multiple input and output MIMO channels to increase the data throughput over the signal lines coupling the mobile network and user devices . The mobile network may be any generation mobile phone network. In a first embodiment the mobile network is a 2G or 2.5G Global System for Mobile Communications GSM IS 95 etc. network. In a second embodiment the mobile network is a 3G Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UTMS IS 2000 etc. network. In a third embodiment the mobile network is a 4G Evolved High Speed Packet Access HSPA 3GPP Long Term Evolution LTE Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMax etc. network. In other embodiments the mobile network may be any known mobile network type or may be a backwards compatible multi generational network that supports two or more technology standards.

The mobile network may provide a messaging service such as a text messaging service for exchanging messages between user devices using a compatible messaging protocol. In some embodiments the mobile network may include switching elements and message gateways to provide the messaging service. These switching elements and message gateways relay the text messages between two or more endpoints of the mobile network such as the user devices and other entities coupled to the mobile network either directly or indirectly. The messaging service may be an SMS MMS XMS instant messaging service or the like which uses a corresponding communication protocol. In addition to its conventional meaning the term text message is not limited to including text and may include any other data types or combination of data types including text graphics audio video etc. In some embodiments the messaging service of the mobile network serves as a fallback messaging service which is described in further detail below.

A channel is of a pair of distinct radio frequency signals i.e. a sending signal and a receiving signal which couples a user device to the mobile network . For example a control channel is channel over which SMS data identification data and setup data is transmitted a voice channel is a channel over which voice data is transmitted during a voice call and a network data channel is a channel over which network data packets are transmitted which may include both voice data packets and application data packets. In some embodiments signal lines and comprise one or more channels for sending and receiving data between a user device and a transmission node of the mobile network . In a 2G or 3G mobile network for example signal line may comprise a control channel and voice channel and signal line may comprise a data channel. The user device and a transmission node of the mobile network communicate control data back and forth over the control channel to setup a voice call or a data packet transmission. Based in part on this control data a controller device of the mobile network such as a transmission node controller or a radio network controller determines an appropriate voice channel for the voice call and assigns the voice call to the voice channel or determines an available data channel for sending and receiving network data packets for an application operating on the user device . In this example the data channel is a channel comprising a pair of radio frequency signals distinct from those of the voice and control channels . In another example including some 4G and later mobile phone networks signal line constitutes the control channel and signal line constitutes the data channel thus omitting the voice channel. The data channel is used to transmit both voice data and application data as network data packets such as Internet Protocol IP data packets. In this other example the core network of the mobile network includes a packet switching devices that route the data packets received from the user device based on information included in a header of the data packets.

A fallback messaging service is a messaging service other than the group messaging service provided by the social network server for exchanging messages between the user devices . The fallback messaging service may be operated by one or more computing devices including one or more processors and one or more storage devices storing data or instructions for execution by the one or more processors. For example the fallback messaging service may be operated by server hardware a server array or any other computing device or group of networked computing devices having data processing storing and communication capabilities. In some embodiments the one or more computing devices operating the fallback messaging service are referred to herein as a fallback messaging server.

In some embodiments the fallback messaging service is a messaging service provided by the mobile network such as an SMS MMS XMS etc. The messaging service provided by the mobile network may in various implementations be provided in combination with the SMS functionality of the SMS gateway . In other embodiments the fallback messaging service is a telecommunications service provided by the telecommunications server for example one which emulates exchanging messages via SMS or MMS but provides the benefit to the user of not having to incur the carrier charges associated with the sending receiving messages using the SMS or MMS of the mobile network . In yet other embodiments the fallback messaging service is an email service operated by the email server . However these examples are not exhaustive and other fallback messaging services for example provided by an instant messaging IM server not shown coupled to the network and or the mobile network are within the scope of the present disclosure. A fallback messaging protocol is a communication protocol used by the fallback messaging server service for sending and receiving the message data and includes any standard messaging protocols such as SMS MMS XMS WAP Simple Mail Transfer Protocol SMTP Extensible Messaging and Presence Protocol XMPP Session Initial Protocol SIP Internet Relay Chat IRC protocol HTTP HTTPS etc.

The user devices may access the fallback messaging service via the network data connection or a fallback data connection. The fallback data connection is a data link that couples a user device to other user devices via at least the mobile network . In some embodiments the fallback data connection advantageously serves as an alternative data link to the network data connection for connecting the user device to the fallback messaging server. In some embodiments the control channel coupling a user device to the mobile network serves as segment of the fallback data connection. In other embodiments a dedicated messaging channel coupling the user device to the mobile network serves as a segment of the fallback data connection. In these or other embodiments the mobile network and signal lines and or the network coupling the mobile network to the fallback messaging server also constitute segments of the fallback data connection. For example the fallback data connection connects a user device to the fallback messaging server e.g. an SMS gateway of the mobile network via signal line and the mobile network . In another example the fallback data connection connects a user device to the fallback messaging server e.g. the SMS gateway via signal line the mobile network and signal line or signal lines and . While the above examples are provided it should be understood that the fallback data connection can be any data link that serves as an alternative data link to the network data connection.

The following are additional non limiting examples of embodiments of the fallback data connection. A user device is coupled to a node of the mobile network via the control channel and the data channel . The control channel links to an SMS switching element not shown of the mobile network and represents a segment of the fallback data connection. The data channel links to a WWAN of the mobile network which is interconnected with the network and represents a segment of the network data connection. Heavy traffic by other user devices also connected to this node of the mobile network overwhelm the node with data traffic and the user device is unable to connect to the network via the WWAN. As a result the user device is unable to connect and transmit message data to the social network server via the network data connection. The user device identifies that the network data connection is unavailable and transmits the message data as an SMS message to the user device via the fallback data connection using the control channel which is still able to transmit data to and from the user device despite the heavy data traffic being experience by the node. In another example a user device is located in a remote geographic location of the mobile network where cellular reception is poor and the user device is only able to acquire a signal with a node of the mobile network via the control channel which represents a segment of the fallback data connection. Similar to the above example the user device identifies that a network data connection to the social network server is unavailable and transmits the message data as an SMS message to the user device via the fallback data connection using the control channel .

The search server is communicatively coupled to the network via signal line . In some embodiments the search server includes a search engine for retrieving results that match search terms from the Internet. Although only one search server is shown it should be understood that multiple search servers may be present.

The connection server is a server for generating and providing connection information for user devices . In the depicted embodiment the connection server is coupled to the network via signal line . In some embodiments the connection server is a hardware server including a processor memory and network communication capabilities. In other embodiments the connection server is a virtual server. In some embodiments user devices establish and maintain data connections to the connection server via the network whenever the user devices are coupled to the network via a network data connection and can send and receive network data. Upon request the connection server generates connection information for one or more user devices and sends the connection information to the device requesting the information. For example the connection server tests whether a user device is connected to the connection server generates connection information including a verification signal describing the results of the connection test and sends the connection information to the device requesting it. In some embodiments when a user device establishes a network data connection to the network the user device logs into the connection server using a unique identifier associated with the group messaging engine such as a user identifier for the social network software application . For example the persistence module of the group messaging application sends a connection request to the connection server as described in further detail below with reference to at least . Accordingly provided user authorization is given the connection server is aware of the user identifiers that are logged into the connection server and can provide confirmation of such to the group messaging engine of the social network server and the other components of the system . In these or other embodiments the connection server or the user device may test whether an open data connection exists between the connection server and the user device via a network data connection by sending a verification request such as an Internet control message protocol ICMP echo request to the other. If the connection is active a confirmation signal is returned by the user device or the connection server receiving the echo request such as an echo reply i.e. ping via a network data connection and the network . If the connection is no longer active no response is received and the verification request times out.

While depicts the connection server as a stand alone entity the connection server may be included in the other elements of the system including the social network server . Additionally while only one connection server is depicted the system may include any number of connection servers . For example connection servers may distributed by geographic region to facilitate a quicker and more efficient connection to the connection servers by the user devices located in those regions. In another example if a particular connection server is overloaded with traffic a user device may connect to other less utilized connection servers .

The notification server is a server for providing notifications to one or more user devices . In the depicted embodiment the notification server is coupled to the network via signal line . In some embodiments the notification server is a hardware server including a processor memory and network communication capabilities. In other embodiments the notification server is a virtual server. The notification server may include a push notification service PNS which is software including routines executable by a processor not shown of the notification server to instruct the notification server to forward push notifications to one or more user devices via the network . The push notifications are received by the notification server from the social network server other entities of the system or other third party servers not shown and are forwarded to the one or more user devices via the network . Some examples of push notifications include custom text notifications badges indicating the number of notifications that await review and sounds.

In some embodiments use of push notifications is unnecessary because the group messaging application can be initialized and an interface can be displayed to the user upon receipt of a signal from the group messaging engine . In other embodiments where a user device is limited to receiving push notifications for any applications that are not active or whose interfaces are not actively being displayed to the user push notifications received by the user device from the notification server are displayed to the user to inform the user of any new group messaging activity that has occurred. While depicts the notification server as a stand alone entity the notification server may be included in the other elements of the system including the social network server . Additionally while only one notification server is depicted more than one notification server may be included in the system .

The SMS gateway is a server for sending and receiving message data via text message e.g. SMS MMS etc. . In the depicted embodiment the SMS gateway is coupled to the network via signal line . The SMS gateway may also be directly coupled to the social network server via signal line for direct communication between those entities. In some embodiments the SMS gateway is a hardware server including a processor memory and network communication capabilities. In other embodiments the SMS gateway is a virtual server. While depicts the SMS gateway as a stand alone entity the SMS gateway may be included in the other elements of the system including the social network server . In some embodiments the SMS gateway is a direct to mobile gateway which connects directly to the mobile network via signal line and communicates with the user devices operating on a mobile network . In other embodiments the SMS gateway is an aggregator or SS7 type mobile gateway which interfaces with a mobile network via the network . In these other embodiments the SMS gateway is coupled to the network via signal line communicates with the mobile network via signal lines and and sends and receives text messages using a gateway element e.g. SMSC of the mobile network .

In some embodiments the SMS gateway receives text messages from the social network server and relays the text messages to the designated recipient user devices using a corresponding text messaging protocol. For example the SMS gateway converts message data received from the social network server to a text message format e.g. SMS and dispatches the text message using a text messaging protocol e.g. SMS to the recipient or recipients indicated in the message data. In another example the message data received by the SMS gateway is pre formatted in a text message format e.g. SMS and the SMS gateway relays the message data to the recipient or recipients identified in a header of the message data. In other embodiments the SMS gateway receives a text message from a user device via the fallback data connection and relays the text message to the group messaging engine of the social network server . The SMS gateway may relay the text message to the group messaging engine in the same format in which it was received by the SMS gateway or the SMS gateway may convert the text message to another format compatible with the group messaging engine and then relay the converted message to the group messaging engine .

In some embodiments the SMS gateway operates as a fallback messaging server and the data link by which the SMS gateway receives and relays text messages advantageously serves as a fallback data connection should a user device be unable to establish a network data connection to the network and connect to the connection server . For example as previously described the signal lines and may include control channels which couple the user devices and to transmission nodes of the mobile network . Responsive to receiving the message data in the form of a text message switching elements of the mobile network relay the text message to and from the SMS Gateway either directly via signal line or indirectly via signal lines and and the network . As a result the text message e.g. the SMS message can be advantageously delivered to the user device or generated by and sent from a user device using the social network server via the SMS gateway even if the user device is unable to establish a network data connection to connect to the connection server e.g. the user device is unable to connect to the network via a WWAN of the mobile network over signal line or a WLAN of the network over signal line .

In some embodiments the telecommunications server is a messaging server for receiving messages via the network and relaying the messages as text messages using the messaging service of the mobile network . The telecommunications server may also receive text messages via the messaging service of the mobile network and relay them via the network . For example a user device coupled to the network via a network data connection may send a message to a recipient user device coupled to the mobile network via a fallback data connection by sending the message to the telecommunications server over the network data connection. The telecommunications server may then relay the message using the messaging service e.g. SMS of the mobile network to the recipient user device via the fallback data connection. In some embodiments functionality of the telecommunications server is accessed by the user device using an alternative telecommunications module as discussed in further detail below.

The email server is a messaging server for sending receiving and providing access to electronic mail email . In some embodiments the email server is a hardware server including a processor memory and network communication capabilities and is coupled to the network via signal line . In other embodiments the email server is a virtual server. The email server includes email server software operable for sending storing receiving and providing access to email. The email server includes server software operable to transmit email between any of the constituent elements of the system . For example the email server receives stores and relays emails sent by a user device to one or more other elements of the system such as user devices the social network server etc. In some embodiments email is transmitted by the email server and other elements of the system over the network using protocols such as SMTP IMAP POP Webdav etc. While only one email server is depicted any number of email servers could be included in the system . In some embodiments the email service operated by the email server serves as a fallback messaging service.

The processor comprises an arithmetic logic unit a microprocessor a general purpose controller or some other processor array to perform computations and provide electronic display signals to a display device not shown . The processor is coupled to the bus for communication with the other components of the social network server . Processor processes data signals and may comprise various computing architectures including a complex instruction set computer CISC architecture a reduced instruction set computer RISC architecture or an architecture implementing a combination of instruction sets. Although only a single processor is shown in multiple processors may be included. The processing capability might be limited to supporting the display of images and the capture and transmission of images. The processing capability might be enough to perform more complex tasks including various types of feature extraction and sampling. It should be understood that other processors operating systems sensors displays and physical configurations are possible.

The memory stores instructions and or data that may be executed by processor . The memory is coupled to the bus for communication with the other components of social network server . The instructions and or data may comprise code for performing any and or all of the techniques described herein. The memory may be a dynamic random access memory DRAM device a static random access memory SRAM device flash memory or some other known memory device. In some embodiments the memory also includes a non volatile memory or similar permanent storage device and media including for example a hard disk drive a floppy disk drive a CD ROM device a DVD ROM device a DVD RAM device a DVD RW device a flash memory device or some other mass storage device known for storing information on a more permanent basis. For clarity instructions and or data stored by the memory or see are described herein as different functional components such as modules or engines where different modules or engines are different instructions and or data stored in the memory or see that cause the described functionality when executed by the processor or see .

The communication unit is coupled to the network by the signal line and coupled to the bus . In some embodiments the communication unit is a network interface device I F which includes ports for wired connectivity. For example the communication unit includes a CAT 5 interface USB interface or SD interface etc. In other embodiments the communication unit includes a transceiver for sending and receiving signals using Wi Fi Bluetooth or cellular communications for wireless communication. The communication unit links the processor to the network that may in turn be coupled to other processing systems. The communication unit may communicate with the other entities of the system using standard communication protocols including for example TCP IP HTTP HTTPS SMTP SMS MMS XMPP SIP IRC etc. In some embodiments the communication unit may provide other connections to the network and the other entities of the system for example to the SMS gateway via signal line .

The group messaging engine is software including routines for exchanging messages between a group of users . In some embodiments the group messaging engine is a set of instructions executable by the processor to provide the functionality for exchanging messages between a group of users . In other embodiments the group messaging engine is stored in the memory of the social network server and is accessible and executable by the processor to provide this functionality. In the foregoing embodiments the group messaging engine may be adapted for cooperation and communication with the processor and the other components of the social network server via the bus . The messages exchanged by the group messaging engine under a default implementation are exchanged using a native messaging protocol. In some embodiments the native messaging protocol is an instant messaging protocol suitable for communication across an IP network e.g. the Internet . For example the native messaging protocol is XMPP SIP IRC HTTP etc.

In the depicted embodiment the group messaging engine includes a backup module a messaging engine and a user settings module . The components and of the group messaging engine and the group messaging engine itself are communicatively coupled to the bus for communication with each other and the other components and of the social network server . The group messaging engine may interact and communicate with the social network software application via the bus . For example the group messaging engine can interact with a credentials module not shown of the social network software application to authenticate users seeking access to the group messaging engine and to provide the group messaging engine access to information and functionality of the social network software application and the social graph . In other embodiments the group messaging engine is stored and operable on a third party server not shown which is coupled by the network for communication and interaction with the social network server the social network software application and the social graph . In these or other embodiments the group messaging engine may access information and utilize the functionality of the social network software application and the social graph via an API.

The backup module is software including routines for receiving promoting and storing messages received from a user device . In some embodiments the backup module is a set of instructions executable by the processor to provide this functionality. In other embodiments the backup module is stored in the memory of the social network server and is accessible and executable by the processor to provide this functionality. In any of these embodiments the backup module may be adapted for cooperation and communication with the processor and other components of the social network server via the bus .

The backup module may be coupled to the communication unit via the bus to send and receive message related data. In some embodiments the backup module may receive a backup request from a user device to backup one or more messages that are unassociated with the group messaging engine such as messages exchanged via a fallback messaging service e.g. SMS from the user device . Message data describing the one or more text messages may be included with or accompany the backup request. In some embodiments the message data may include message thread information describing how the one or more message are connected to one another or to other messages stored in the messaging data store . In other embodiments the backup module may derive message thread information from metadata included in the one or more messages. In some embodiments the message data may be received in a format compatible with the fallback messaging service e.g. SMS compatible format or may converted to a native format by the group messaging application before being sent to the backup module . In some embodiments the backup request may be initiated by a user desiring to backup text messages e.g. SMS messages stored in the memory of the user device or may be initiated automatically by the group messaging application operating on a user device to store messages previously sent via a fallback messaging service such as the SMS of the mobile network . For example upon reestablishing a network data connection the group messaging application may send a backup request to backup fallback messages sent while the network data connection was unavailable for exchanging messages natively via the group messaging engine .

In some embodiments the messages backed up via the backup module are promoted for use and integration with the group messaging engine . Promoting a message may include integrating the message with other messages already associated with the group messaging engine . The integration may include integrating message thread information describing how the message being integrated is related to other messages. In some embodiments during the promotion the message is converted from a non native format to a format that is native to the group messaging engine. To preserve the origins of the one or more messages described by the message data the backup module may annotate the message data with information identifying the fallback messaging service it was originally exchanged by. Promotion by the backup module is advantageous because in some embodiments it allows messages exchanged by a user using a fallback messaging service which have different formatting and protocol requirements than those of the group messaging engine and or the group messaging application to be seamlessly integrated and managed by the group messaging engine .

The backup module may be coupled to the messaging data store to store manipulate and retrieve message related information. In some embodiments the backup module stores the backup request and associated message data in the messaging data store . The message data may be stored in the messaging data store with information associating it with a user account of the user . The backup module may store the backup request and or message data as it was received may store the message data after it has been converted promoted to a format compatible with native to the group messaging engine or both. By way of example the backup request may be a request to backup all of the text messages e.g. SMS MMS etc. stored on the user device of the user and may include message data describing the text messages and the text message threads with which the text messages are associated. The backup module may convert the text messages and message threads to a native format and store them in the messaging data store with account information identifying the messages and message threads as belonging to the user .

In some embodiments the backup module may receive a restore request from a user device to restore one or more messages to a user device . The restore request may request all messages associated with a user account of the user be provided or that select messages be provided. Message thread data describing how the messages are interrelated i.e. threaded together may also be provided. In response to receiving the restore request the backup module may interact with the messaging data store to retrieve the requested messages. In some embodiments the messages retrieved in response to the restore request includes messages stored by the messaging engine during operation as discussed in further detail below. The messages being provided by the backup module may be provided in a format native to the group messaging engine and or the group messaging application in the format the messages were originally received in by the group messaging engine or both.

As a non limiting example of a restore request a user may acquire a new user device that lacks any record of messages the user had previously exchanged via various messaging services including SMS MMS the group messaging service provided by the group messaging engine etc. Using the group messaging application the user may send a restore request to the group messaging engine requesting all messages be restored on the user device and in response the backup module may retrieve and send all messages and message thread information stored in the messaging data store to the user device of the user for presentation to the user . Thus one of the many advantages of the backup module includes providing a user a mechanism for reliably and conveniently archiving and restoring his or her SMS messages MMS messages messages native to the group messaging engine and the like even if the user device is lost stolen or otherwise replaced.

Requests received by the backup module such as a backup request or a restore request may include or may otherwise be accompanied by authorization information associated with the user to establish that the user is authorized to store retrieve messages stored in the messaging data store . The backup module may determine whether the user is authorized to backup the message data based at least in part on the authorization information. For example the backup module may be coupled to the credentials module of the social network software application to send the authorization information and receive verification of whether the user is authorized to access the group messaging engine .

The messaging engine is software including routines for determining the availability of a network data connection and exchanging messages based at least in part on the availability of the network data connection. In some embodiments the messaging engine is a set of instructions executable by the processor to provide this functionality. In other embodiments the messaging engine is stored in the memory of the social network server and is accessible and executable by the processor to provide this functionality. In any of these embodiments the messaging engine may be adapted for cooperation and communication with the processor and other components of the social network server via the bus .

The messaging engine may be coupled to the communication unit to receive message data sent by a user device and parse it for sender and recipient information. The sender information may include identifying information for a user or user device that sent the message data. For example the sender information may include one or more of a sender s user identifier associated with a social network software application user account a network address of the sender s user device e.g. an IP address port etc. a mobile phone number for the sender s user device information about the computing environment of the user device e.g. operating system type and version and group messaging application type and version etc. The recipient information may also include identifying information for each user device designated to receive the message data. For example the recipient information may include one or more of a recipient s user identifier associated with the recipient s user account for the social network software application a network address of the recipient s user device a mobile phone number for the recipient s user device etc. In some embodiments the messaging engine is coupled to the messaging data store to store a copy of the message data. The messaging engine may store a copy of the message data in the messaging data store in the format that it was dispatched in in the format that it was received in by the communication unit or both.

In some embodiments the messaging engine is coupled to the connection server via the network to send a connection query and receive connection information. The connection query generated and sent by the messaging engine may include a list of recipient identifiers from the recipient information. Using the list of identifiers the connection server may determine whether user devices identified by the identifiers are connected to the connection server and generate and send connection information to the messaging engine describing whether or not each of the user devices is coupled to the connection server via a network data connection. In some embodiments the messaging engine analyzes the connection information assigns a fallback identifier to the fallback recipients i.e. each recipient user designated to receive the message via the fallback messaging protocol maps the message data to the group of users exchanging messages using the fallback identifier and stores mapping data describing the fallback identifier the group of users exchanging messages etc. in the messaging data store for later reference and revision. In some embodiments the fallback identifier is a phone number drawn from a pool of phone numbers which identify the SMS gateway as a telecommunications endpoint on the mobile network . In other embodiments the fallback identifier is an email address drawn from a pool of email addresses assigned to the group messaging engine . In these or other embodiments the fallback identifier is assigned to one messaging group at a time to avoid conflicts with other messaging groups. Additional structure and functionality of the connection server are described above with reference to for example.

In some embodiments where the connection information describes a recipient user device as being coupled to the network via the network data connection and connected to the connection server the messaging engine dispatches the message via the network data connection using the native messaging protocol. In other embodiments where a recipient s user device is described by the connection information as not being connected to the connection server the messaging engine may be coupled to the fallback messaging server e.g. the SMS gateway the email server an IM server etc. and advantageously relay the message data to the fallback messaging server for dispatch to a user device of each of the fallback recipients via the fallback data connection. This provides a recipient operating the recipient user device the benefit of still being able to receive the message even though the recipient user device is not connected to the connection server via a network data connection e.g. an Internet connection . The messaging engine may also optionally convert the message data prior to dispatching the message data. In some embodiments the messaging engine converts the message data to a format compatible with the protocol being used to send the message data. For example the messaging engine converts the message data to a format compatible with the fallback messaging protocol for the fallback recipients and converts the message data to a format compatible with the native messaging protocol for the recipients designated to receive the message via the native messaging protocol.

By way of illustration the messaging engine may convert the message data into a text message format annotate the sender and recipient information to describe the fallback sender and recipient information i.e. phone numbers that it mapped and relay the formatted message data to the SMS gateway . In response the SMS gateway using a text messaging protocol transmits the formatted text message to a user device of each of the fallback recipients via the fallback data connection over the mobile network . In another example the fallback messaging protocol is an email protocol the messaging engine converts annotates and dispatches the message data to the email server and the email server delivers the emails to the fallback recipients via the fallback data connection. In yet another example the fallback messaging protocol is an IM protocol and the messaging engine converts the message data addresses it and dispatches it using the IM protocol via the fallback data connection or relays the message data to an IM server not shown for dispatch via the fallback data connection.

The fallback messaging protocol may require that the fallback recipients be identified with an identifier associated with the fallback messaging protocol such as a mobile phone number or an email address. In some embodiments the identifying information associated with the native messaging protocol may be the same as the identifying information associated with the fallback messaging protocol. For example a user may use the same email address for sending and receiving email as a user identifier for accessing the group messaging application . However in other embodiments the identifiers may differ. In these other embodiments the messaging engine is capable of retrieving the alternative identifying information associated with the fallback messaging protocol. For example the messaging engine may query the social graph or a user account associated with the social network software application for the alternative identifying information. In another example alternative identifying information is included in the message data and the messaging engine parses the alternative identifying information from the message data. While the messaging engine is described as being capable of retrieving the alternative identifying information in other embodiments other components of the group messaging server or social network server may provide this functionality.

In some embodiments the messaging engine associates a message thread of the group of users exchanging messages i.e. the messaging group with a unique session identifier. The unique session identifier may identify a message thread associated with the message data being exchanged. For example once an initial message is sent by a user to one or more other users via the group messaging engine a message thread is formed. The message thread is added to when subsequent messages are exchanged between the users in response to the initial message. The messages are identified as belonging to the same message thread by the unique session identifier. In some embodiments the messages dispatched and received via the fallback messaging protocol are associated with the message thread by the messaging engine mapping the fallback identifier assigned to the fallback recipients to the unique session identifier associated with the message thread.

In some embodiments the message data received by the messaging engine represents a reply message sent in response to a previous message dispatched by the messaging engine via the fallback data connection. The messaging engine can determine whether the reply message was sent via the fallback data connection in various ways. In some embodiments the messaging engine determines the reply message as having been sent via the fallback data connection by providing the sender information from the reply message to the messaging engine and the messaging engine indicating that the sender information includes a fallback identifier. In other embodiments the messaging engine determines the message data as having been sent via the messaging engine from a communications port and or IP address via which the reply message data was received the protocol used to send the reply message data etc. In some embodiments where the reply message data was sent via the fallback data connection the messaging engine uses the sender information provided by the fallback determination module to query the messaging data store for stored mapping data. For example the messaging engine queries the messaging data store using a fallback identifier included in the sender information to determine the messaging group and in particular the recipients from the messaging group that the reply message should be dispatched to. The messaging engine may use this information as recipient information for dispatching the message data. By way of example the group messaging engine determines that a network data connection to a user device is unavailable so message data is dispatched to the user device in the form of an SMS message via the fallback data connection. In response reply SMS message data is received from the user device via the fallback data connection. The messaging engine using the sender s phone number i.e. the fallback identifier queries the messaging data store for mapping data that maps the fallback identifier to the other member s of the messaging group which in this example is the user who sent the initial message data. The messaging engine uses the mapping data to determine if a network data connection exists for the user who sent the initial message data and dispatches the reply message data accordingly.

The user settings module is software including routines for determining storing and retrieving user settings. In some embodiments the user settings module is a set of instructions executable by the processor to provide this functionality. In other embodiments the user settings module is stored in the memory of the social network server and is accessible and executable by the processor to provide this functionality. In the foregoing embodiments the user settings module may be adapted for cooperation and communication with the processor and other components of the social network server via the bus . In some embodiments the user settings module is coupled to the communication unit to receive the request signals.

The user settings module may receive user settings data from other entities of the system such as the user devices and store the user settings data in the messaging data store . The user settings data may instruct the group messaging engine on how to function in various scenarios. For example a user can provide via a group messaging application user settings data to instruct the group messaging engine to default to sending messages via a specific fallback messaging service and or may define the order in which fallback messaging services should be selected by the group messaging application and or group messaging engine . The user settings data may also instruct the group messaging engine to use a particular fallback messaging service for a period of time or until updated settings data are provided to delay dispatch via a fallback messaging service until a predetermined amount of time has passed to opt out of receiving messages via a fallback messaging service to exempt certain recipients from receiving messages via a fallback messaging service and to determine the which services to use as the fallback e.g. SMS MMS email etc. etc. However the foregoing examples are not exhaustive of the types of user settings data that can be provided and it should be understood that any functionality of the messaging engine can be regulated by user settings data provided by a user .

The messaging data store is data storage for storing messaging related data. The messaging data store is coupled for communication with the components and of the group messaging engine and the other components and of the social network server via the bus . In some embodiments the messaging data store stores information received generated and sent by the other modules of the group messaging engine . For example the messaging data store stores requests message data user settings data conversion data mapping data etc. In some embodiments the messaging data store may store an archive of a user s messages including text messages group messages instant messages emails etc. For example as previously described above with reference to the backup module a user can backup all messages stored in the user s user device to the messaging data store for later retrieval e.g. should the messages be deleted from the user device . In some embodiments the messaging data store is coupled to the other modules of the group messaging engine so these modules can manipulate i.e. store query update and or delete data using programmatic operations.

In some embodiments the messaging data store includes a database management system DBMS operable on the social network server and storable in the memory . For example the DBMS could be a structured query language SQL DBMS. In these embodiments the social network server and in particular the group messaging engine are coupled to the DBMS via the bus to store data in multi dimensional tables comprised of rows and columns and manipulate i.e. insert query update and or delete rows of data using programmatic operations e.g. SQL queries and statements .

The SMS module is software including routines for sending and receiving text messages via an SMS MMS etc. of the mobile network . In some embodiments the SMS module is a set of instructions executable by the processor to provide this functionality. In other embodiments the SMS module is stored in the memory of the user device and is accessible and executable by the processor to provide this functionality. In the foregoing embodiments the SMS module may be adapted for cooperation and communication with the processor and other components of the user device via the bus . The SMS module may send text messages to and receive text messages from other computing devices coupled to the mobile network other mobile networks or to the network . For example the SMS module may send text messages to and receive text message from the SMS gateway the telecommunications server the email server or other user devices via an SMS or MMS of the mobile network . In some embodiments the SMS module sends and receives text messages via a messaging service e.g. SMS MMS etc. of the mobile network using a text messaging protocol such as SMS or MMS protocol etc.

In some embodiments the SMS module includes an API that allows other modules of the user device interact with the SMS module . Other modules of the group messaging engine and the social networking server may interact with the SMS module via the API to retrieve a summary of text messages communicated via the SMS module send SMS messages receive notification when a new SMS message has been received etc. For example the components of the group messaging application and or the group messaging application itself may signal the SMS module to send text messages provide information or notifications about text messages that have been sent or received etc. In some embodiments the group messaging application signals the SMS module to generate text messages using information provided with the signal and the SMS module and generates and displays a user interface to a user requesting authorization to send the generated text message. In other embodiments the group messaging application signals the SMS module to generate a text message using information provided with the signal and the SMS module and generates and sends the text message without further interaction from a user .

The graphics adapter displays images and other information on the display . The graphics adapter may be a separate processing device including a separate processor and memory not shown or may be integrated with the processor and memory . The display represents any device equipped to display electronic images and data as described herein. The display may be any a conventional display device monitor or screen such as an organic light emitting diode OLED display a liquid crystal display LCD . In some embodiments the display is a touch screen display capable of receiving input from one or more fingers of a user . For example the display may be a capacitive touch screen display capable of detecting and interpreting multiple points of contact with the display surface.

The input device is any device for inputting data on the user device . In some embodiments the input device is a touch screen display capable of receiving input from the one or more fingers of the user . In these embodiment the functionality of the input device and the display may be integrated and a user of the user device interacts with the user device by contacting a surface of the display using one or more fingers. For example the user interacts with an emulated i.e. virtual or soft keyboard displayed on the touch screen display by using fingers to contact the display in the keyboard regions. In other embodiments the input device is a separate peripheral device or combination of devices. For example the input device includes a keyboard e.g. a QWERTY keyboard and a pointing device e.g. a mouse or touchpad . The input device may also include a microphone a web camera or other similar audio or video capture devices.

The processor comprises an arithmetic logic unit a microprocessor a general purpose controller or some other processor array to perform computations and optionally provide electronic display signals to the display device . The processor communicates with the other components via the bus . Processor processes data signals and may comprise various computing architectures including a complex instruction set computer CISC architecture a reduced instruction set computer RISC architecture or an architecture implementing a combination of instruction sets. Although only a single processor is shown in multiple processors may be included. The user device may also include an operating system executable by the processor for managing controlling and providing access to the functionality and resources of the user device described herein.

The memory stores instructions and or data that may be executed by processor . The memory communicates with the other components of user device via bus . The instructions and or data comprise code for performing any and or all of the techniques described herein. The memory may be a dynamic random access memory DRAM device a static random access memory SRAM device flash memory or some other known memory device. In some embodiments the memory also includes a non volatile memory or similar permanent storage device and media including for example a hard disk drive a floppy disk drive a CD ROM device a DVD ROM device a DVD RAM device a DVD RW device a flash memory device or some other mass storage device known for storing information on a more permanent basis. In some embodiments the group messaging application is stored in the memory and executable by the processor .

The communication unit includes interfaces for interacting with other devices networks of devices. In some embodiments the communication unit includes transceivers for sending and receiving wireless signals. For example the communication unit includes radio transceivers 4G 3G 2G etc. for communication with the mobile network and radio transceivers for WiFi and Bluetooth connectivity. In the depicted embodiment the communication unit is coupled to the network by the signal line and is coupled to the mobile network via signal lines and or . In these or other embodiments the communication unit may include a network interface device I F which includes ports for wired connectivity. For example the communication unit includes a CAT 5 interface USB interface or SD interface etc. The interfaces of the communication unit provide the network data connection to the network the fallback data connection via the network and other connections to other networks and devices using the protocols discussed above with regard to for example.

The group messaging application is software including routines for generating sending and receiving message data via one or more messaging protocols. In particular the group messaging application may receive input signals from a user generate message data and user settings from the input signals send data to and receive data from the other components of the system and the social network server and manage user settings. In some embodiments the group messaging application is a set of instructions executable by the processor to provide this functionality. In other embodiments the group messaging application is stored in the memory of the user device and is accessible and executable by the processor to provide this functionality. In any of the foregoing embodiments the group messaging application may be adapted for cooperation and communication with the processor and the other components of the user device via the bus . In some embodiments the messages generated sent and received by the group messaging application have a format compatible with the protocol native to the group messaging engine or a format compatible with a fallback messaging service such as the messaging services operated by the mobile network the telecommunications server the SMS gateway and other components of the system .

In the depicted embodiment the group messaging application includes a user interface engine an authorization module a persistence module a messaging module a message backup module and a user settings module . The user interface engine the authorization module the persistence module the messaging module the message backup module and the user settings module are coupled for communication with each other and the other components of the user device via the bus .

The user interface engine is software including routines for rendering user interfaces and for receiving user input via the user interfaces. In some embodiments the user interface engine is a set of instructions executable by the processor to provide this functionality. In other embodiments the user interface engine is stored in the memory of the user device and is accessible and executable by the processor to provide this functionality. In the foregoing embodiments the user interface engine may be adapted for cooperation and communication with the processor and other components of the user device via the bus . The user interface engine may be coupled to the input device via the bus to receive input signals from the user . For example a user composes a message using the input device and the user interface engine receives signals describing the composed message and stores the signals in the memory for retrieval by the messaging module . In other embodiments the user interface engine is coupled to the messaging module via the bus to provide the signals directly to the messaging module .

The user interface engine may be coupled to the SMS module via the bus to receive messaging information. In some embodiments the user interface engine may signal the SMS module to provide information about all text messages that have been sent or received by the SMS module including metadata and the body of the text messages. The user interface engine may store the messaging information in the messaging data store for later reference manipulation and or retrieval. The messaging information may include any information related to the management and transmission of the text messages including the protocol by which the text messages were sent e.g. SMS MMS XMS etc. the date and time the text messages were sent sender and recipient information e.g. phone numbers the text messages were sent to and received from information identifying the users associated with the phone numbers etc. the message texts message thread information interconnecting the text messages etc. In some embodiments the user interface engine may interact with the SMS module for example to receive the messaging information using an API provided by the SMS module .

The user interfaces generated by the user interface engine can include but are not limited to a message entry form for composing messages an integrated interface for viewing sent and received messages e.g. see interfaces for viewing native and non native message threads e.g. see and B or a combination thereof and a settings dialog e.g. see for inputting modifying and displaying user preferences related to the group messaging application and the group messaging engine . In some embodiments the user interfaces include user interface elements that allow users to interact with the user device to input information and commands such as text entry fields selection boxes drop down menus buttons virtual keyboards and numeric pads etc. In some embodiments the message entry form includes an input field such as a drop down menu for inputting the recipients of the message and a field for defining the body of the message. In selecting recipients the user can for example select from social circles of the user s social graph retrievable from the social graph . The user interface engine may generate this drop down menu by querying the social graph of the social network for all of the social circles defined by the user of the user device and populating the drop down menu with the social circles. In some embodiments a user defines social circles for family friends acquaintances work contacts etc. from his or her contacts on the social network. The user interface engine can also populate the dropdown with information from other sources such as a database of contacts stored in the memory which are associated with telephonic features of the user device . For example the database of contacts may include a list of names and phone numbers associated with other users and their user devices . As previously discussed examples of user interfaces generated for display on the display of the user device by the user interface engine are illustrated in and are discussed in further detail below.

The authorization module is software including routines for determining whether a recipient user is authorized to exchange messages via the group messaging engine . In some embodiments the authorization module is a set of instructions executable by the processor to provide this functionality. In other embodiments the authorization module is stored in the memory of the user device and is accessible and executable by the processor to provide this functionality. In the foregoing embodiments the authorization module may be adapted for cooperation and communication with the processor and other components of the user device via the bus .

The authorization module may be coupled to the social network server via the network to send and receive authorization information. In some embodiments the authorization module may generate and send an authorization request to the social network server requesting confirmation that one or more of the recipients are registered users of the group messaging engine and in reply a credentials module not shown of the group messaging engine or the social network software application of the social network server may send an authorization response verifying whether the one or more recipient users are authorized to exchange messages via the group messaging engine . In some embodiments the authorization request may include information identifying the recipients such as a user identifier a phone number a name user device identification information etc. The credentials module may be the same or similar to the credentials module discussed above and a description of it will not be repeated here. In other embodiments the authorization module may query a local database stored in the memory for information identifying the one or more recipients users as being authorized to use the group messaging engine for the recipient. The local database may be populated with information retrieved earlier from another information source such as the group messaging engine the social network software application the connection server the social graph or the user for example.

The persistence module is software including routines for maintaining a persistent connection with the connection server when the user device is coupled to the network via the network data connection and providing connection data. In some embodiments the persistence module is a set of instructions executable by the processor to provide this functionality. In other embodiments the persistence module is stored in the memory of the user device and is accessible and executable by the processor to provide this functionality. In the foregoing embodiments the persistence module may be adapted for cooperation and communication with the processor and other components of the user device via the bus .

The persistence module may be coupled to the communication unit via the bus . In some embodiments the persistence module receives a connectivity signal from the communication unit indicating whether the communication unit is coupled to the network either directly and or indirectly via the mobile network . If the connectivity signal indicates that the communication unit is coupled to the network either directly via signal line and or indirectly via signal line as previously described the persistence module may generate and send a connection request to the connection server . In response to receiving the request the connection server may identify the user device using identifying information provided in the request and maintain an open persistent connection with the user device if the user device is properly identified by the connection server . In some embodiments the identifying information provided in the request is a unique identifier associated with a user of the user device or the user device itself. For example the identifying information may include one or more of a mobile network subscriber key a media access control address MAC address an IP address of the user device information identifying the group messaging application and a version level thereof a user identifier for the social network etc.

The persistence module may generate and provide connection data describing the availability of a network data connection the availability of a connection to the connection server connectivity of other user devices etc. The persistence module may generate the connection data based at least in part on the connection information received from the connection server and the connectivity signal or signals received from the communication unit describing the connection state of the user device to the network and or the network . For example the connection data may describe whether a network data connection and or a fallback data connection exists for the user device and whether the persistence module was able to connect to login to and or interact with the connection server via the network data connection. In some embodiments the persistence module is coupled to the other elements of the group messaging application such as the messaging module via the bus to provide the connection data.

The messaging module is software including routines for generating and selectively routing messages via the network data connection and the fallback data connection. The data connection by which the messaging module routes messages may be based on whether a network data connection is available to the user device whether a recipient is authorized to exchange messages via the group messaging engine a user setting instructions input by a user etc. In some embodiments the messaging module is a set of instructions executable by the processor to provide this functionality. In other embodiments the messaging module is stored in the memory of the user device and is accessible and executable by the processor to provide this functionality. In the foregoing embodiments the messaging module may be adapted for cooperation and communication with the processor and other components of the user device via the bus .

The messaging module may perform various functions including receiving messages from other user devices using the group messaging engine or various fallback messaging services and sending messages to other user devices using the group messaging engine or various fallback messaging services. For receiving message data describing a message from another user device the messaging module may for example be coupled to the communication unit or the SMS module via the bus . In some embodiments the messaging module is coupled the communication unit to receive the message data from another user device via the group messaging engine over the network data connection. In other embodiments the messaging module is coupled to the SMS module of the user device to receive message data that has been received by the SMS module from another user device using a messaging service e.g. an SMS MMS etc. of the mobile network . In yet other embodiments the messaging module is coupled directly to the messaging service of the mobile network via the communication unit and elements of the mobile network to receive the message data e.g. an SMS message . Upon receiving the message data the messaging module may perform various operations including converting and annotating the message data storing the message data signaling the user interface engine to display the message data etc. In some embodiments where the message data represents a text message received via a fallback messaging service e.g. SMS the messaging module may convert the message data to a format native to the group messaging application and or group messaging engine and relate the message data to other associated messages which belong to the same message thread. The messaging module may store the message data in the memory for later use reference. The messaging module may also signal the message backup module to store the message data on the social network server in the messaging data store for archiving and later use reference. For displaying the message data to the user the messaging module may signal the user interface engine to generate and present a notification to the user that a message has been received and or signal the user interface engine generate an interface or update a previously generated user interface to display the message data to the user e.g. see .

The messaging module may selectively route the message data for transmission via different messaging services based at least in part on one or more of input provided by the user connection data provided by the persistence module authorization information provided by the authorization module etc. In some embodiments the messaging module may be coupled to the user interface engine via the bus to receive input signals describing the message input by the user and generate and send the message based at least in part on the input signals. In some embodiments the user may dictate which messaging service the message should be sent using. For example the user may specify that a message should be send via SMS MMS group messaging engine telecommunications server etc. In other embodiments the messaging module may automatically determine which message service should be used to dispatch the message data. The messaging module may default to using the group messaging engine which may be the messaging service providing the richest media experience to a user and if the group messaging engine is unavailable the messaging module may defer to a fallback messaging service that is the next richest e.g. an MMS or SMS and so on and so forth until a messaging service by which the message can be sent by is determined to be available.

In some embodiments the messaging module may determine whether the group messaging engine is available to exchange messages using connection data provided by the persistence module . The messaging module may be coupled to the persistence module via the bus to send and receive information. In some embodiments the messaging module requests connection data from the persistence module indicating whether the connection server and the user device are connected via the network data connection. The persistence module may generate and send the connection data to the messaging module in response to receiving a signal for it from the messaging module . In some embodiments the messaging module may use the connection data to determine whether to transmit message data to another user device via the group messaging engine or via a fallback messaging service. By way of example the persistence module may send connection data to the messaging module indicating that the user device is not coupled to the network via a network data connection e.g. via a WLAN of the network or a WWAN of the mobile network and is coupled to the mobile network via a fallback data connection e.g. a control channel and based on the connection data the messaging module routes the message via the fallback data connection e.g. an SMS of the mobile network as an SMS message. In another example the persistence module may send connection data indicating that a network data connection exists coupling the user device to the network whether it be directly or indirectly and the connection server etc. and the messaging module may route the message data to the group messaging engine for delivery to one or more other user devices via the network data connection.

In various embodiments once a network data connection is determined to exist between the user device and the connection server the messaging module may determine whether each designated recipient user of the message data is authorized to use the group messaging engine to receive exchange messages. In some embodiments the messaging module may be coupled to the authorization module via the bus to send and receive information related to whether one or more recipients associated with the message data are authorized to receive the message data via the group messaging engine . For example the messaging module may send identification information identifying the designated recipients users of the message data to the authorization module and the authorization module may compare the identification information to authorization information managed retrievable by the authorization module to determine whether each of the recipients included in the identification information are authorized users of the group messaging engine and may receive messages using the group messaging engine . In other embodiments the messaging module may send the message data to the group messaging engine and the group messaging engine may determine whether each recipient user is authorized or able to receive the message data via the group messaging engine or a fallback messaging service such as the fallback messaging service provided by the SMS gateway .

In some embodiments where the messaging module sends the message data via the group messaging engine using the network data connection the messaging module may send it using a protocol native to the group messaging application and or the group messaging engine . In other embodiments where the messaging module sends the message data via the fallback messaging service the messaging module sends it using a fallback protocol associated with the fallback messaging service. For example if the fallback messaging service is an SMS of the mobile network the messaging module sends the message data via signal line to an SMS of the mobile network using a text messaging protocol such as an SMS or MMS compatible protocol and the SMS forwards the message to the designated recipient be it another user device the SMS gateway or another entity of the system .

The messaging module may be coupled via the bus to the SMS module of the user device to send and receive messaging instructions. The messaging instructions may include an instruction to send a text message via a message service e.g. SMS MMS etc. of the mobile network . In some embodiments the instruction signal may provide all information necessary for the SMS module to send the text message. For example the instruction may include the message content e.g. text pictures video clips etc. and metadata describing which recipients are to receive the text message. The metadata may include e.g. phone number s associated with other users the SMS gateway etc. . In other embodiments the instruction may signal the SMS module to display an interface for composing and sending a text message and the user manually inputs information into the interface. In yet other embodiments the interface is pre populated with information included in the instruction signal and the SMS module displays the interface to the user to confirm the information and provide express authorization to send the text message. The SMS module may provide a confirmation signal to the messaging module to confirm that a text message has been successfully sent by the SMS module . In some embodiments provision of the confirmation signal may be in response to receiving an instruction signal instructing that the confirmation signal be provided. In other embodiments the confirmation signal may be automatically provided by the SMS module . In some embodiments may interact with the SMS module via an API provided by the SMS module .

To further illustrate various ways in which the messaging module may send messages the following additional non limiting examples are provided. A sender user may wish to send a message to another user via the group messaging engine . However the sender s user device may not be connected to the network and thus may not be able to send the message via the group messaging engine . In light this the sender may elect to send the message as an SMS message via an SMS of the mobile network i.e. a fallback message service . In another example the sender user may not know whether a recipient user is authorized to exchange messages via the group messaging engine . To determine such the sender may enter information identifying the recipient user such a phone number or an email address via an interface presented by the group messaging engine and upon receiving this information the authorization module may perform a query to determine whether the recipient user is authorized to exchange messages via the group messaging engine as previously described. If the recipient user is authorized the messaging module may proceed to transmit the message data to the group messaging engine via the network data connection. In other examples the sender may instruct the messaging module to send the message using one or more alternative fallback messaging services such as one provided by the telecommunications server the mobile network the email server the SMS gateway or the like. This instruction may be provided if the message cannot be sent via the group messaging engine or may be provided independently of the availability of the group messaging engine .

The message backup module is software including routines for backing up message related information. In some embodiments the message backup module is a set of instructions executable by the processor to provide this functionality. In other embodiments the message backup module is stored in the memory of the user device and is accessible and executable by the processor to provide this functionality. In the foregoing embodiments the message backup module may be adapted for cooperation and communication with the processor and other components of the user device via the bus .

The message backup module is coupled to the communication unit via the bus to send and receive message related data to the backup module and the other entities of the system over the network and or mobile network . In some embodiments the message backup module interacts and cooperates with the backup module of the group messaging engine to backup messages stored in the memory of the user device . The user may manually initiate a backup request to backup one or more messages via a user interface generated by the user interface engine or the message backup module may automatically initiate the backup request and determine which messages require backing up. To automatically determine which messages require backing up the message backup module may identify if any messages associated with the one or more fallback messaging services are not associated with the group messaging engine . For example the message backup module which is coupled to the SMS module and telecommunications module via the bus may retrieve messages managed by the SMS module and or alternative telecommunications module . The message backup module may then compare those messages to the messages associated with the group messaging application to determine if any messages are missing. The messages associated with the group messaging application may be a local copy of the messages stored in the messaging data store of the social network server or may be retrievable from the social network server at the time of comparison. In some embodiments the message backup module may monitor messages sent using various fallback messaging services e.g. SMS module alternative communication module and backup these messages either contemporaneously or at a later time to keep messages stored in the messaging data store synchronized with the messages being sent and received using the fallback messaging services.

In some embodiments the backup module of the group messaging engine may identify if any messages associated with the one or more fallback messaging services are not associated with the group messaging engine . For example the backup module may provide a copy or summary of the messages managed by the SMS module and or alternative telecommunications module to the group messaging engine via the network and the group messaging engine e.g. the backup module may compare those messages to the messages stored in the messaging data store to determine if any messages are missing from the messaging data store . Additional structure and functionality of the messages backup module and the backup module are described above with reference to and below with reference to for example.

The user settings module is software including routines for storing retrieving and sending user settings related information. In some embodiments the user settings module is a set of instructions executable by the processor to provide this functionality. In other embodiments the user settings module is stored in the memory of the user device and is accessible and executable by the processor to provide this functionality. In the foregoing embodiments the user settings module may be adapted for cooperation and communication with the processor and other components of the user device via the bus .

The user settings module may be coupled to the user interface engine to receive input signals identified by the user interface engine as user settings related information. For example to enter or modify the user s user settings the user selects user interface elements included in a user interface rendered by the user interface engine using the input device . The user interface engine identifies signals received from the input device as user setting related information and sends the signals to the user settings module . The user settings module modifies behavior of the group messaging application based on the user setting related information received and stores the user setting related information for later reference and modification. In some embodiments the user settings module is capable of storing and retrieving data describing the user settings in and from the messaging data store of the social network server the memory of the user device or both. In some embodiments some of the user settings maintained by the user settings module are applicable to the group messaging engine . For example the user can control functionality of the messaging engine of the group messaging engine by modifying the settings presented a user settings interface such as the user interface depicted in .

Various additional structure and functionality of the group messaging engine group messaging application and other entities of the system are further described below with reference to for example.

Referring now to various embodiments of the methods of the present disclosure are described. is a flowchart of a method for integrated messaging according to some embodiments of the present disclosure. The method begins by the user interface engine receiving input describing a recipient user and a message to be received by the recipient. For example the user interface engine may be coupled by the bus to the input device to receive input signals from a user interacting with the input device . The method continues by the authorization module determining whether the recipient is authorized to exchange messages via the group messaging engine .

In some embodiments to make the determination the authorization module may generate and send an authorization request to the group messaging engine of the social network server requesting confirmation that the recipient is a registered user of the group messaging engine . In other embodiments to make the determination the authorization module may query a local database of contacts that are authorized to use the group messaging engine for the recipient. The method continues by the messaging module selectively transmitting the message for dispatch via a fallback messaging service or the group messaging engine . If the authorization module determines that the recipient is not authorized to exchange messages via the group messaging engine the messaging module transmits the message data for dispatch to a user device of the recipient via a fallback messaging service. In some embodiments the fallback messaging service may be a messaging service of the mobile network such as an SMS or an MMS. By way of example the messaging module may transmit the message data via SMS protocol to a short message service center SMSC of the mobile network for dispatch to the user device of the recipient. In other non limiting examples the fallback messaging service may be an email service operated by the email server a messaging service e.g. SMS operated by the telecommunications server etc. and the messaging module may transmit the message using a protocol compatible with the fallback messaging service for dispatch to the user device of the recipient.

If the authorization module determines that the recipient is authorized to exchange messages via the group messaging engine the messaging module transmits the message data for dispatch to a user device of the recipient via the group messaging engine . For example the messaging module may transmit the message using messaging protocol native to the group messaging engine via the network data connection or to the group messaging engine of the social network server and the group messaging engine may then dispatch the message to a user device of the recipient.

The group messaging application operating on the user device may then render or update a user interface to display the transmitted message and the method is then complete and ends.

If the authorization module determines the recipient to be authorized the messaging module formats the message in a format native to the group messaging application and as previously described above with respect to transmits the message to the group messaging engine for dispatch to the user device of the recipient. If the authorization module determines the recipient to be unauthorized the method continues by the messaging module determining whether a telecommunications server is available to the user for sending the message as an alternative and or whether the sender wishes to send the message via the telecommunications server . In some embodiments to make the determination the messaging module may verify whether an alternative telecommunications module is accessible and executable by the processor of the user device for sending the message and if so provided the sender has given authorization or provided instruction to send the message via the telecommunications server the method may proceed to block . Additionally to make the determination the messaging module may interact with the alternative telecommunications module to determine whether the user sending the message is authorized to send and receive messages via the telecommunications server and may interact with the user settings module to determine whether a user setting e.g. see has been set by the user instructing the messaging module to send messages via the telecommunications server as a fallback.

If the messaging module determines that the telecommunications server is available to the user for sending the message the messaging module transmits the message to the telecommunications server via a protocol compatible with the telecommunications server and the telecommunications server prepares and sends the message as a text message e.g. SMS MMS etc. message to the user device of the recipient. If the messaging module determines that the telecommunications server is unavailable to the user for sending the message the method continues by the messaging module formatting the message in a format compatible with a text messaging protocol e.g. SMS MMS etc. and transmitting the message e.g. via the SMS module using that protocol to a messaging service e.g. SMS MMS etc. of the mobile network for dispatch to the user device of the recipient.

Next the method stores the message on the group messaging engine . In some embodiments if the message is transmitted for dispatch via the group messaging engine a copy of the message is stored by the group messaging engine in the messaging data store either by instruction or automatically. In other embodiments if the message is dispatched in steps and or via a fallback messaging service the message backup module may archive a copy of the message by transmitting the message to the group messaging engine for storage in the messaging data store . For example if a connection to the connection server in block is determined to be unavailable the message may be archived by the message backup module to the group messaging engine once connectivity to the connection server has been reestablished. When transmitting the message for storage the message backup module may annotate the message with information associating the message with its corresponding message thread. Backing up the message to the group messaging engine advantageously allows the message to be retrieved by the user who sent the message or the user receiving the message should the message ever inadvertently be deleted from the user device of the user. Additionally it provides the convenience of retrieving the message from the group messaging engine either as a standalone message or with any other messages that are part of a common message thread.

The method continues by the user interface engine generating a user interface and or updating a previously generated user interface such as the example interfaces illustrated in to display the message to the user who sent it. For example the message may be advantageously displayed along with any other messages that are part of a common message thread as in or the message may be advantageously displayed at least in part in an integrated interface such as the example interface illustrated in . The method is then complete and ends.

Next the method continues by the message backup module determining whether authorization has been granted to back up the text messages e.g. SMS MMS etc. messages stored in the memory of the user device . In some embodiments the message backup module prompts the user via an interface generated by the user interface engine for authorization to back up the stored text messages e.g. SMS messages and if the user provides authorization the message backup module sends any stored text messages that have not yet been backed up to the group messaging engine . The method is then complete and ends. The method is advantageous because it provides the user the benefit of archiving the text messages e.g. SMS MMS etc. stored in the memory of the user device to the social network server and accessing the messages at a later time via a convenient integrated user interface of the group messaging application for example should the user device of the user every be replaced stolen or lost.

To further illustrate method the following non limiting example is provided. A user uses the SMS module native to the user device e.g. mobile phone to send SMS MMS etc. messages to other users . The user then later begins to use the group messaging application to send messages to other users . Provided the user gives authorization the message backup module can retrieve the SMS MMS etc. messages sent via the SMS module from the memory of the user device and transmit them to the group messaging engine to be backed up. Then should the need arise e.g. if the user ever switches to a new user device that does not contain any of the messages the user can restore all messages both SMS MMS etc. messages exchanged via the SMS module of the previous user device and messages exchanged via the group messaging engine by having the instance of group messaging application operating on the new user device retrieve them from the group messaging engine .

While the above described methods and and advantages are depicted and described in some embodiments in the context of SMS messaging other fallback messaging services discussed above such as MMS XMS email IM etc. are contemplated and fall within the scope of the present disclosure.

The message thread regions and represent message threads containing one or more messages sent and or received by the user . In the depicted embodiment the integrated interface includes a combination of text and native message threads. For example message thread region represents one or more text e.g. SMS messages exchanged between the user and one or more other users . In some embodiments selecting the message thread region using input device instructs the user interface engine to generate and display a user interface presenting the one or more text messages that have been exchanged between the user and one or more other users for that thread. For example in the depicted embodiment selecting the message thread region initializes the display of user interface as depicted in . Similarly the message thread regions and each represent for example one or more messages exchanged between the user and one or more other users via the group messaging engine . As with region in some embodiments selecting the message thread region or using the input device instructs the user interface engine to generate and display user interfaces for viewing the messages exchanged between users associated with those threads. For example in the depicted embodiment selecting message thread region initializes the display of user interface as depicted in . The integrated interface is advantageous as it allows messages being sent via text message e.g. SMS or another fallback messaging service as well as messages being sent via the group messaging engine to be viewed composed and otherwise managed by a user using the same software application e.g. the social network software application operating on the user device . This provides the user a seamless messaging experience and relieves the user from having to install configure and switch between multiple messaging environments to communication with other users .

In message fields and each reflect a message of the text message thread such as an SMS message thread and are correspondingly labeled with SMS. Message entry field is a field for inputting the text of the message to be sent to the other members of the messaging group depicted in the horizontal scroll region . In some embodiments upon selecting the message entry field to enter message text the user interface engine renders a virtual keyboard including a send button for display on the display underneath the message entry field . To send a message the user may enter message text in the message entry field and select the send button to send the message data to the other members of the messaging group. In other embodiments the user may input and send the message text using a hardware keyboard included in the user device . Message text may be entered in reply to a previous message displayed in one of message fields and or may be entered to discuss a new topic with the other members of the message thread.

With reference to the user interface which in some embodiments is generated by the user interface engine is a user interface for viewing a native message thread such as a message thread of messages exchanged via the group messaging engine . The user interface may include a window having various components including toolbar buttons and a horizontal scroll region message regions and and a message entry field . The toolbar buttons and the horizontal scroll region and the message entry field are described above with reference to and their description will not be repeated here. Message regions and each reflect a message of a native message thread exchanged via the group messaging engine . The messages of the message thread may reflect a conversation between one or more users associated with the message thread. In some embodiments the messages of the message thread depicted in the user interface are exchanged via the network data connection using a protocol native to the group messaging application and group messaging engine . Display of the user interface in some embodiments may be triggered by selecting message thread region as previously discussed above with respect to .

In other embodiments the user interface engine may generate a mixed user interface not shown depicting a mixed message thread that includes messages exchanged via a variety of messaging services including but not limited to ones associated with the group messaging engine SMS MMS etc. For example the user interface could include message regions depicting messages exchanged using the network data connection via the protocol native to group messaging application and group messaging engine as well as messages exchanged via text message i.e. a fallback messaging service using an text message compatible protocol e.g. SMS and in some cases the fallback data connection. To illustrate the advantages and benefits of a mixed user interface the following additional non limiting examples are provided. If a sender user s user device is not coupled to the network via the network data connection once the sender enters and selects to send the message text the messaging module receives the input describing the message from the input device and relays the message to the SMS module of the user device for dispatch. In some embodiments the message is sent by the SMS module to the SMS gateway which is addressable on the mobile network using a fallback identifier generated by or accessible to the group messaging application or included in a previous message received from the group messaging engine and included in the mixed message thread. In other embodiments the SMS module can send the message data directly to each of the members of the messaging group via text message e.g. SMS using mobile phone numbers retrievable from a contact database stored in the memory of the user device . For any subsequent messages sent by the sender the group messaging application can revert back to sending the messages via the network data connection using the native group messaging engine protocol provided the network data connection is available. Additionally messages sent via the SMS module or another fallback messaging service may be advantageously backed up by the message backup module once a network data connection has been established as previously described above.

It should also be understood that the user interfaces and discussed above are merely examples and that interface elements may have a variety of distinct formats positions within the window and combinations all of which are encompassed by the scope of the present disclosure.

A system and methods for integrated messaging have been described. In the above description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the disclosure. It should be understood that the technology described in the various example embodiments can be practiced without these specific details. In other instances structures and devices were shown in block diagram form in order to avoid obscuring the disclosure. For example the present disclosure was described in some embodiments above with reference to user interfaces and particular hardware. However the present disclosure applies to any type of computing device that can receive data and commands and any devices providing services. Moreover the present disclosure was described above primarily in the context of exchanging messages via various messaging services. However it should be understood that the present disclosure applies to any type of other data exchange between endpoints.

Reference in the specification to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the disclosure. The appearances of the phrase in one embodiment in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

Some portions of the detailed descriptions above are presented in terms of algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on data bits within a computer memory. These algorithmic descriptions and representations are the means used by those skilled in the data processing arts to most effectively convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art. An algorithm is here and generally conceived to be a self consistent sequence of steps leading to a desired result. The steps are those requiring physical manipulations of physical quantities. Usually though not necessarily these quantities take the form of electrical or magnetic signals capable of being stored transferred combined compared and otherwise manipulated. It has proven convenient at times principally for reasons of common usage to refer to these signals as bits values elements symbols characters terms numbers or the like.

It should be borne in mind however that all of these and similar terms are to be associated with the appropriate physical quantities and are merely convenient labels applied to these quantities. Unless specifically stated otherwise as apparent from the above discussion it is appreciated that throughout the description discussions utilizing terms such as processing or computing or calculating or determining or displaying or the like refer to the action and processes of a computer system or similar electronic computing device that manipulates and transforms data represented as physical electronic quantities within the computer system s registers and memories into other data similarly represented as physical quantities within the computer system memories or registers or other such information storage transmission or display devices.

The present disclosure also relates to an apparatus for performing the operations herein. This apparatus may be specially constructed for the required purposes or it may comprise a general purpose computer selectively activated or reconfigured by a computer program stored in the computer. Such a computer program may be stored in a non transitory computer readable storage medium e.g. memory etc. such as but is not limited to any type of disk including floppy disks optical disks CD ROMs and magnetic disks read only memories ROMs random access memories RAMs EPROMs EEPROMs magnetic or optical cards flash memories including USB keys with non volatile memory or any type of media suitable for storing electronic instructions each coupled to a computer system bus.

The disclosure can take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment or an embodiment containing both hardware and software elements. In a preferred embodiment the disclosure is implemented in software which includes but is not limited to firmware resident software microcode etc.

Furthermore the disclosure can take the form of a computer program product accessible from a computer usable or computer readable medium providing program code for use by or in connection with a computer or any instruction execution system. For the purposes of this description a non transitory computer usable or computer readable medium can be any apparatus that can contain store communicate propagate or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device. A non transitory computer readable storage medium may include any and or all computer readable storage media with the sole exception being a transitory propagating signal.

A data processing system suitable for storing and or executing program code will include at least one processor coupled directly or indirectly to memory elements through a system bus. The memory elements can include local memory employed during actual execution of the program code bulk storage and cache memories which provide temporary storage of at least some program code in order to reduce the number of times code must be retrieved from bulk storage during execution.

Input output or I O devices including but not limited to keyboards displays pointing devices etc. can be coupled to the system either directly or through intervening I O controllers.

Network adapters may also be coupled to the system to enable the data processing system to become coupled to other data processing systems or remote printers or storage devices through intervening private or public networks. Modems cable modems and Ethernet cards are just a few of the currently available types of network adapters.

Finally the algorithms and displays presented herein are not inherently related to any particular computer computing device or other apparatus. Various general purpose systems may be used with programs in accordance with the teachings herein or it may prove convenient to construct more specialized apparatus to perform the required method steps. The required structure for a variety of these systems will appear from the description above. In addition the present disclosure is not described with reference to any particular programming language. It will be appreciated that a variety of programming languages may be used to implement the teachings of the disclosure as described herein.

It is intended that the scope of the disclosure be limited not by this detailed description but rather by the claims of this application. As will be understood by those familiar with the art the present disclosure may be embodied in other specific forms without departing from the spirit or essential characteristics thereof. Likewise the particular naming and division of the modules routines features attributes methodologies and other aspects are not mandatory or significant and the mechanisms that implement the present disclosure or its features may have different names divisions and or formats. Furthermore it should be understood that the modules routines features attributes methodologies and other aspects of the disclosure can be implemented as software hardware firmware or any combination of the three. Also wherever a component an example of which is a module of the present disclosure is implemented as software the component can be implemented as a standalone program as part of a larger program as a plurality of separate programs as a statically or dynamically linked library as a kernel loadable module as a device driver and or in every and any other way. Additionally the disclosure is in no way limited to implementation in any specific programming language or for any specific operating system or environment. Accordingly the disclosure is intended to be illustrative but not limiting of the scope of the present disclosure which is set forth in the following claims.

