---

title: Wall breaching fragmentation projectile
abstract: A wall breaching explosive fragmentation ammunition having a tungsten alloy nose cap with ceramic cone nose which make possible penetration into a hardened target with survivability of the warhead. The ammunition employs a unitary construction with fuze completely within the projectile's shell case. The ammunition has an external plastic rotating band which also encloses an induction antenna. The antenna may signal the fuze on a wire, through a hole in the shell case. The fuze signals may be fed through a gun barrel, then picked up on the antenna. The ammunition also employs a controlled pattern fragmentation mechanism incorporating a patterned plastic liner.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08943974&OS=08943974&RS=08943974
owner: The United States of America as Represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 08943974
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121219
---
The inventions described herein may be made used or licensed by or for the U.S. Government for U.S. Government purposes.

There is a continuing need to provide improved small and medium caliber wall breaching explosive fragmentation ammunition to provide efficient penetration of hardened concrete masonry and adobe walls light armor and further to effectively deliver the payload thereof with minimum structural damage to the ammunition s projectile. There is also a continuing need to deliver an increase in lethal area effect for such ammunition. There is certainly a need to provide a multi functional anti personnel anti materiel penetration airburst warhead for such ammunition also having insensitive munition IM blast and controlled fragmentation features and also improving shock absorption mitigation characteristics of these projectiles.

This invention among its many beneficial features utilizes a unique tungsten alloy nose cap with ceramic cone nose for a projectile which make possible greater penetration into a hardened target and survivability of its warhead. The invention also employs a unique unitary construction of a projectile with a fuze completely enclosed within the explosive payload of the projectile steel case. The invention also employs a unique fragmentation mechanism incorporating a patterned plastic liner within a fragmenting outer shell. The plastic liner also has the salutory effect of shock mitigation and insensitive munition diminution in fire hazard scenarios.

Accordingly it is an object of the present invention to provide improved wall breaching explosive fragmentation ammunition.

Another object of the present invention is to provide efficient penetration of hardened concrete masonry and adobe walls light armor and further to effectively deliver the payload thereof with minimum structural damage to an ammunition s projectile.

It is a further object of the present invention to deliver an increase in lethal area effect for wall breaching ammunition.

It is yet another object of the present invention to provide a multi functional anti personnel anti materiel penetration airburst warhead for wall breaching ammunition.

It is a still further object of the present invention to provide insensitive munition IM blast controlled fragmentation features and also improved shock absorption mitigation characteristics of wall breaching ammunition.

These and other objects features and advantages of the invention will become more apparent in view of the within detailed descriptions of the invention the claims and in light of the following drawings wherein reference numerals may be reused where appropriate to indicate a correspondence between the referenced items. It should be understood that the sizes and shapes of the different components in the figures may not be in exact proportion and are shown here just for visual clarity and for purposes of explanation. It is also to be understood that the specific embodiments of the present invention that have been described herein are merely illustrative of certain applications of the principles of the present invention. It should further be understood that the geometry compositions values and dimensions of the components described herein can be modified within the scope of the invention and are not generally intended to be exclusive. Numerous other modifications can be made when implementing the invention for a particular environment without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.

In the invention provides a wall breaching explosive fragmentation ammunition. It also provides a multi functional anti personnel anti materiel penetration airburst warhead also having insensitive munition IM blast and controlled fragmentation features. It provides efficient penetration of hardened concrete masonry and adobe walls light armor and effectively delivers a payload with minimum structural damage to the ammunition s projectile. Unitary case construction uses a solitary fragmentation steel shell to enclose both the fuze and the explosive . This configuration is in contrast to having the fuze in direct contact with the shell with no explosive there inbetween as is the case in most conventional small and mid caliber warhead configurations. This invention approach of depositing a layer of explosive between fuze and shell case will allow utilization of the shell case along the entire length of the fuze and this results in an approximate 30 increase in the warhead s fragmentation lethality. The explosive layer between the fuze exterior and shell case interior along the length of the fuze must be sufficient to burst the shell case in that region length it should be at least 3 4 mm thick. At the fore end of the projectile is a W tungsten alloy nose cap overlaid with a ceramic cone and the projectile has a rear enclosure piece at . Communication to the fuze runs through electrical signals fed to the gun barrel whose material is electrically conductive such signals being radiated electromagnetically and effectively picked up by an induction antenna deposited into a plastic rotating band . The induction antenna output is connected with the fuze using an electrical conductor a wire through a hole such as in the fragmentation steel shell case. The hole in the steel case around the conductor and the space between the rotating band and the body is filled with low melting temperature electric insulator material . Hole also serves as a vent adding IM benefit in the case of accidental fire hazard. A plastic liner is deposited between the explosive and the steel fragmentation case liner is fabricated from low density low melting temperature viscous elastic plastic material and assists to provide insensitive munition IM and controlled fragmentation functions and also for shock absorption mitigation characteristics of the projectile. This invention can be used on small medium or large caliber warheads for example. Warheads such as depicted in have been seen to penetrate DRC reinforced concrete or Adobe wall and still to survive and have been seen to deliver a 400 increase in lethal area effect.

While the invention may have been described with reference to certain embodiments numerous changes alterations and modifications to the described embodiments are possible without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined in the appended claims and equivalents thereof.

