---

title: Use of pyruvate or succinate to enhance the efficacy of a hypoxia activated prodrug for the treatment of tumors
abstract: The identification of pOlowering agents as transient hypoxia-inducers is disclosed herein. Provided is a method of enhancing the efficacy of a hypoxia-sensitive agent in a subject, by administering to the subject a therapeutically effective amount of the hypoxia-sensitive agent and a therapeutically effective amount of a pOlowering agent. Methods of treating a subject with a tumor, by administering to the subject a therapeutically effective amount of a pOlowering agent and a therapeutically effective amount of a hypoxia-sensitive agent are also disclosed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09402820&OS=09402820&RS=09402820
owner: H. LEE MOFFITT CANCER CENTER AND RESEARCH INSTITUTE, INC.
number: 09402820
owner_city: Tampa
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120420
---
This is the U.S. national stage of PCT Application No. PCT US2012 034534 filed Apr. 20 2012 which was published in English under PCT Article 21 2 which application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 478 465 filed Apr. 22 2011 which is incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was made with government support under NIH R01 grant CA 125627 awarded by the Department of Health and Human Services. The United States government has certain rights in the invention.

This disclosure concerns agents that transiently decrease the partial pressure of oxygen in a tumor and methods of using them to increase the efficacy of hypoxia sensitive agents to treat subjects with a tumor.

Hypoxia within regions of solid tumors is associated with resistance to standard treatments particularly radiotherapy. The hypoxia occurs in part because the tumor s vasculature is highly unordered and leaves significant portions of the tumor unperfused. Conventional drug therapy which depends on reaching the cancer through the bloodstream can be less effective in hypoxic tumors.

Drug designers have taken advantage of the hypoxic regions in tumors and designed anticancer drugs that are specifically active or activated under hypoxic conditions. For example hypoxia activated prodrugs are chemically modified to be inactive but when administered to the body and exposed to hypoxic conditions such as in a tumor they are metabolized or otherwise converted into the active anticancer form. Despite these new drugs there is an ongoing need for innovative approaches to anticancer therapy.

It is surprisingly disclosed herein that tumor cell oxygen partial pressure pO can be transiently decreased by exogenous administration of an agent that induces hypoxia in the tumor. Thus provided herein is a method of enhancing the efficacy of a hypoxia sensitive agent in a subject by administering to the subject a therapeutically effective amount of a hypoxia sensitive agent and a therapeutically effective amount of a pOlowering agent wherein the amount of pOlowering agent administered is sufficient to transiently enhance hypoxia of the tumor thereby enhancing the efficacy of the hypoxia sensitive agent. Also provided is a method of treating a subject with a tumor by administering to the subject a therapeutically effective amount of a hypoxia sensitive agent and a therapeutically effective amount of a pOlowering agent in an amount sufficient to transiently enhance hypoxia of the tumor. Further provided is a method of inducing hypoxia in a tumor cell comprising administering to a subject with a tumor an unlabeled mitochondrial substrate wherein the amount of the unlabeled mitochondrial substrate is sufficient to transiently induce hypoxia of the tumor cell.

The foregoing and other features and advantages of the invention will become more apparent from the following detailed description of a several embodiments which proceeds with reference to the accompanying figures.

Unless otherwise noted technical terms are used according to conventional usage. Definitions of common terms in molecular biology may be found in Benjamin Lewin published by Jones and Bartlett Publishers 2007 ISBN 0763740632 Kendrew et al. eds. published by Blackwell Science Inc. 1998 and Robert A. Meyers ed. published by VCH Publishers Inc. 1995 ISBN 1 56081 569 8 .

In order to facilitate review of the various embodiments of the disclosure the following explanations of specific terms are provided 

Administration The introduction of a composition into a subject by a chosen route. For example if the chosen route is intravenous the composition is administered by introducing the composition into a vein of the subject. In another example the administration can be anatomically targeted for example by infusion into an artery perfusing a target area such as an organ. In particular examples the infusion is performed selectively into the arterial supply of a tumor for example into a hepatic artery to treat a liver tumor or into the vertebral or cerebral artery to treat a brain tumor.

Anti angiogenic agent An agent that disrupts angiogenesis and prevents the formation of blood vessels. Examples of anti angiogenic agents include bevacizumab sorafenib and sunitinib.

Antibody A polypeptide ligand comprising at least a light chain or heavy chain immunoglobulin variable region which specifically recognizes and binds an epitope of an antigen. Antibodies are composed of a heavy and a light chain each of which has a variable region termed the variable heavy V region and the variable light V region. Together the Vregion and the Vregion are responsible for binding the antigen recognized by the antibody.

Antibodies include intact immunoglobulins and the variants and portions of antibodies well known in the art such as Fab fragments Fab fragments F ab fragments single chain Fv proteins scFv and disulfide stabilized Fv proteins dsFv . A scFv protein is a fusion protein in which a light chain variable region of an immunoglobulin and a heavy chain variable region of an immunoglobulin are bound by a linker while in dsFvs the chains have been mutated to introduce a disulfide bond to stabilize the association of the chains. The term also includes genetically engineered forms such as chimeric antibodies for example humanized murine antibodies heteroconjugate antibodies such as bispecific antibodies . See also 1994 1995 Pierce Chemical Co. Rockford Ill. Kuby J. 3Ed. W.H. Freeman Co. New York 1997.

Typically a naturally occurring immunoglobulin has heavy H chains and light L chains interconnected by disulfide bonds. There are two types of light chain lambda and kappa k . There are five main heavy chain classes or isotypes which determine the functional activity of an antibody molecule IgM IgD IgG IgA and IgE.

Binding partner Any molecule or composition capable of recognizing and specifically binding to a defined structural aspect of another molecule or composition. Examples of such binding partners and corresponding molecule or composition include biotin avidin such as biotin streptavidin antigen antibody hapten antibody and lectin carbohydrate.

Bioreductive agent Compound or drug that accepts electrons in an oxidation reduction reaction. Bioreductive agents exhibit a high specificity for hypoxic cells under conditions of low oxygen partial pressures for example at 10 2 0.2 or 0.02 oxygen . These agents can be bioactivated under hypoxic conditions via one electron reduction to a highly reactive free radical intermediate that generates a hydroxyl ion to fragment DNA.

Bioreductive prodrugs show minimal toxicity in normoxic cells. In hypoxic cells they are converted for example by an enzymatic process which is inhibited by oxygen to a stable persistent cytotoxin. The product binds non covalently to DNA with an affinity high enough to produce cytotoxicity and low enough to allow slow diffusion and subsequent cytotoxicity in proximate tumor cells irrespective of their oxygen levels.

The response of tumors to bioreductive agents not only depends on the tumor oxygenation but also on reductive enzymes within the tumor that are necessary to bioactivate the drug to a DNA damaging species. Therefore tumor variability in bioreductive capacity both in terms of hypoxic fraction and enzyme profile will determine response and therapeutic outcome.

Chemotherapeutic agent An agent with therapeutic usefulness in the treatment of diseases characterized by abnormal cell growth or hyperplasia. Such diseases include cancer as well as diseases characterized by hyperplastic growth such as psoriasis. One of skill in the art can readily identify a chemotherapeutic agent for instance see Slapak and Kufe Chapter 86 in 14th edition Perry et al. Ch. 17 in Abeloff 2ed. 2000 Churchill Livingstone Inc Baltzer L Berkery R eds 2nd ed. St. Louis Mosby Year Book 1995 Fischer D S Knobf M F Durivage H J eds 4th ed. St. Louis Mosby Year Book 1993 .

Examples of anti tumor chemotherapeutic agents that could be used in the methods disclosed herein include alkylating agents such as thiotepa and CYTOXAN cyclosphosphamide alkyl sulfonates such as busulfan improsulfan and piposulfan aziridines such as benzodopa carboquone meturedopa and uredopa ethylenimines and methylamelamines including altretamine triethylenemelamine trietylenephosphoramide triethiylenethiophosphoramide and tiimethylolomelamine acetogenins especially bullatacin and bullatacinone a camptothecin including the synthetic analogue topotecan bryostatin callystatin CC 1065 including its adozelesin carzelesin and bizelesin synthetic analogues cryptophycins particularly cryptophycin 1 and cryptophycin 8 dolastatin duocarmycin including the synthetic analogues KW 2189 and CB1 TM1 eleutherobin pancratistatin a sarcodictyin spongistatin nitrogen mustards such as chlorambucil chlornaphazine cholophosphamide estramustine ifosfamide mechlorethamine mechloretliamine oxide hydrochloride melphalan novembichin phenesterine prednimustine trofosfamide uracil mustard nitrosureas such as carmustine chlorozotocin fotemustine lomustine nimustine and ranimnustine antibiotics such as the enediyne antibiotics e.g. calicheamicin especially calicheamicin gammall and calicheamicin omegall see e.g. Agnew Chem. Intl. Ed. Engl. 33 183 186 1994 dynemicin including dynemicin A bisphosphonates such as clodronate an esperamicin as well as neocarzinostatin chromophore and related chromoprotein enediyne antiobiotic chromophores aclacinomysins actinomycin authramycin azaserine bleomycins cactinomycin carabicin caminomycin carzinophilin chromomycinis dactinomycin daunorubicin detorubicin 6 diazo 5 oxo L norleucine ADRIAMYCIN doxorubicin including morpholino doxorubicin cyanomorpholino doxorubicin 2 pyrrolino doxorubicin and deoxydoxorubicin epirubicin esorubicin idarubicin marcellomycin mitomycins such as mitomycin C mycophenolic acid nogalamycin olivomycins peplomycin potfiromycin puromycin quelamycin rodorubicin streptonigrin streptozocin tubercidin ubenimex zinostatin zorubicin anti metabolites such as methotrexate and 5 fluorouracil 5 FU folic acid analogues such as denopterin methotrexate pteropterin trimetrexate purine analogs such as fludarabine 6 mercaptopurine thiamiprine thioguanine pyrimidine analogs such as ancitabine azacitidine 6 azauridine carmofur cytarabine dideoxyuridine doxifluridine enocitabine floxuridine androgens such as calusterone dromostanolone propionate epitiostanol mepitiostane testolactone anti adrenals such as aminoglutethimide mitotane trilostane folic acid replenisher such as frolinic acid aceglatone aldophosphamide glycoside aminolevulinic acid eniluracil amsacrine bestrabucil bisantrene edatraxate defofamine demecolcine diaziquone elformithine elliptinium acetate an epothilone etoglucid gallium nitrate hydroxyurea lentinan lonidainine maytansinoids such as maytansine and ansamitocins mitoguazone mitoxantrone mopidanmol nitraerine pentostatin phenamet pirarubicin losoxantrone podophyllinic acid 2 ethylhydrazide procarbazine PSK polysaccharide complex JHS Natural Products Eugene Oreg. razoxane rhizoxin sizofiran spirogermanium tenuazonic acid triaziquone 2 2 2 trichlorotriethylamine trichothecenes especially T 2 toxin verracurin A roridin A and anguidine urethan vindesine dacarbazine mannomustine mitobronitol mitolactol pipobroman gacytosine arabinoside Ara C cyclophosphamide thiotepa taxoids e.g. TAXOL paclitaxel Bristol Myers Squibb Oncology Princeton N.J. ABRAXANE Cremophor free albumin engineered nanoparticle formulation of paclitaxel American Pharmaceutical Partners Schaumberg Ill. and TAXOTERE doxetaxel Rhone Poulenc Rorer Antony France chloranbucil GEMZAR gemcitabine 6 thioguanine mercaptopurine methotrexate platinum analogs such as cisplatin and carboplatin vinblastine platinum etoposide VP 16 ifosfamide mitoxantrone vincristine NAVELB E vinorelbine novantrone teniposide edatrexate daunomycin aminopterin xeloda ibandronate irinotecan Camptosar CPT 11 including the treatment regimen of irinotecan with 5 FU and leucovorin topoisomerase inhibitor RFS 2000 difluorometihylomithine DMFO retinoids such as retinoic acid capecitabine combretastatin leucovorin LV oxaliplatin including the oxaliplatin treatment regimen FOLFOX inhibitors of PKC alpha Raf H Ras EGFR e.g. erlotinib Tarceva and VEGF A that reduce cell proliferation and pharmaceutically acceptable salts acids or derivatives of any of the above.

Also included are anti hormonal agents that act to regulate or inhibit hormone action on tumors such as anti estrogens and selective estrogen receptor modulators SERMs including for example tamoxifen including NOLVADEX tamoxifen raloxifene droloxifene 4 hydroxytamoxifen trioxifene keoxifene LY117018 onapristone and FARESTON toremifene aromatase inhibitors that inhibit the enzyme aromatase which regulates estrogen production in the adrenal glands such as for example 4 5 imidazoles aminoglutethimide MEGASE megestrol acetate AROMASIN exemestane formestanie fadrozole RIVISOR vorozole FEMARA letrozole and ARIMIDEX anastrozole and anti androgens such as flutamide nilutamide bicalutamide leuprolide and goserelin as well as troxacitabine a 1 3 dioxolane nucleoside cytosine analog antisense oligonucleotides particularly those which inhibit expression of genes in signaling pathways implicated in aberrant cell proliferation such as for example PKC alpha Raf and H Ras ribozymes such as a VEGF expression inhibitor e.g. ANGIOZYME ribozyme and a HER2 expression inhibitor vaccines such as gene therapy vaccines for example ALLOVECTIN vaccine LEUVECTIN vaccine and VAXID vaccine PROLEUKIN rIL 2 LURTOTECAN topoisomerase 1 inhibitor ABARELIX rmRH Vinorelbine and Esperamicins see U.S. Pat. No. 4 675 187 and pharmaceutically acceptable salts acids or derivatives of any of the above.

Chemotherapeutic drugs also include hypoxia sensitive agents such as a hypoxia activated drug or a hypoxia activated prodrug. Specific non limiting examples of a hypoxia activated prodrug include banoxantrone AQ4N NSC 673504 Novacea Inc. PR 104 Proacta Inc. tirapazamine SR4223 and TH 302 Threshold Pharmaceuticals Inc. . Specific non limiting examples of a hypoxia activated drug include mitomycin C and 3 bromopyruvate.

Co administration co administering Administration of a first agent for example pyruvate with a second agent for example a hypoxia sensitive agent within the same general time period and does not require administration at the same exact moment in time although co administration is inclusive of administering at the same exact moment in time . Thus co administration may be on the same day or on different days or in the same week or in different weeks. Two three four or more agents can be co administered. The co administered agents may be included in the same composition or they may each individually be included in separate compositions. However the two agents are administered during a time frame wherein their respective periods of biological activity overlap. Thus the term includes sequential as well as co extensive administration of two or more agents.

Cytotoxicity The quality of being toxic to a cell. A cytotoxic agent as used herein refers to a substance that inhibits or prevents the function of cells prevents the proliferation and or growth of cells and or causes the destruction killing of cells. The term is intended to include radioactive isotopes e.g. I I Yand Re bioreductive agents chemotherapeutic agents and toxins such as enzymatically active toxins of bacterial fungal plant or animal origin or fragments thereof.

DNA repair A collection of processes by which a cell identifies and corrects damage to the DNA molecules that encode its genome. In human cells both normal metabolic activities and environmental factors such as UV light can cause DNA damage resulting in as many as 1 million individual molecular lesions per cell per day. Many of these lesions cause structural damage to the DNA molecule and can alter or eliminate the cell s ability to transcribe the gene that the affected DNA encodes. Other lesions induce potentially harmful mutations in the cell s genome. Consequently the DNA repair process must be constantly active so it can respond rapidly to any damage in the DNA structure.

The rate of DNA repair is dependent on many factors including the cell type the age of the cell and the extracellular environment. A cell that has accumulated a large amount of DNA damage or one that no longer effectively repairs damage incurred to its DNA can enter one of three possible states an irreversible state of dormancy known as senescence apoptosis or programmed cell death or unregulated cell division which can lead to the formation of a tumor that is cancerous.

Efficacy Refers to the ability of agent to elicit a desired therapeutic effect. Efficacy also refers to the strength or effectiveness of a compound. As used herein enhancing efficacy means to increase the therapeutic action for example the activity or beneficial result of an agent. In one embodiment when the agent is a hypoxia sensitive agent enhancing efficacy generally refers to increasing the ability of the agent to kill target cells such as tumor cells for example increasing a chemotherapeutic anti proliferative cytotoxic or cell killing activity of a hypoxia sensitive agent . Increasing the hypoxia level or decreasing the partial pressure of oxygen for example by the administration of a pOlowering agent can also enhance the efficacy of a hypoxia sensitive agent.

Hyperproliferative disease A disease or disorder characterized by the uncontrolled proliferation of cells. Hyperproliferative diseases include but are not limited to non malignant and malignant cancer tumors.

Hypoxia A condition wherein the oxygen concentration is below normal levels for a particular tissue such as a tumor . Hypoxia in a particular tissue as compared to surrounding tissue is referred to as relative tissue hypoxia. An example of relative tissue hypoxia is tumor hypoxia in which a tumor has lower levels of pOthan that of surrounding non tumor tissue. In some examples of the disclosed methods the level of oxygen is for example 10 or less for example 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 or 1 or for example 50 mmHg or less for example 45 mmHg 40 mmHg 35 mmHg 30 mmHg 25 mmHg 20 mmHg 15 mmHg 10 mmHg 5 mmHg 4 mmHg 3 mmHg 2 mmHg or 1 mmHg . The body as a whole generalized hypoxia or a region of the body tissue hypoxia may be deprived of adequate oxygen. Those of skill in the art would be familiar with the measurement of oxygen levels in biological systems and that oxygen measurements may be expressed in mmHg wherein for example 10 Ois equal to 76 mmHg and 1 Ois equal to 7.6 mmHg.

Transient hypoxia occurs when oxygen levels are below normal temporarily followed by a return to normal oxygen levels. In one embodiment of the disclosed methods transient hypoxia refers to decreased oxygen partial pressure levels increased hypoxia in a tumor after the administration of an agent followed by the recovery to an oxygen partial pressure level equivalent to or not statistically different from the level before the administration of the agent.

Different levels of hypoxia in a tumor can occur at different time points for example prior to and following administration of an agent that induces hypoxia a hypoxia inducer . Prior to administration of a hypoxia inducer a tumor already may be hypoxic but administration of a hypoxia inducer further reduces the pOlevel and therefore further increases hypoxia in the tumor relative to non tumor tissues or non tumor cells surrounding the tumor. Different levels of hypoxia also can occur within a particular tumor. For example prior to administration of the agent a hypoxic tumor may be heterogeneously hypoxic such that a tumor may be hypoxic relative to non tumor tissues or cells in some regions of the tumor but not hypoxic in other regions. Alternatively a tumor may be variably hypoxic exhibit various levels of hypoxia across the tumor tissue compared to non tumor tissues or cells. Administration of a hypoxia inducer can induce hypoxia in the tumor such that a larger proportion or percentage of the tumor for example the entire tumor is hypoxic for example the tumor can become homogeneously hypoxic. The agent can affect reduce pOlevels or increase hypoxia of normoxic regions in a tumor regions in a tumor that have not reached a threshold hypoxia or all regions of a tumor regardless of their pO hypoxia levels.

Hypoxia activated prodrug HAP A bioreductive agent that is metabolized or otherwise converted into an activated form with respect to a biological property such as anti tumor activity in a hypoxic environment.

Hypoxia inducer An agent such as a chemical compound small molecule or other composition for example an antisense compound antibody protease inhibitor hormone chemokine or cytokine capable of initiating or increasing hypoxia decreasing the oxygen partial pressure in a tissue or in a subject. In some embodiments the hypoxia inducer causes transient hypoxia. In particular embodiments the hypoxia inducer is a mitochondrial substrate for example pyruvate or succinate which increases oxygen consumption in a cell. A hypoxia inducer is also referred to as a pOlowering agent.

Hypoxia sensitive agent hypoxic cytotoxin An agent such as a chemical compound small molecule or other composition for example an antisense compound antibody protease inhibitor hormone chemokine or cytokine which has an altered activity under hypoxic conditions hypoxia . The hypoxia sensitive agent may have increased or decreased activity under hypoxic conditions. The hypoxia sensitive agent can be a hypoxia activated drug or a hypoxia activated prodrug.

In some embodiments the hypoxia sensitive agent is inactive until exposed to hypoxic conditions e.g. hypoxia activated drugs . In particular embodiments the hypoxia sensitive agent is metabolized upon exposure to hypoxic conditions in order to be converted into the active form e.g. hypoxia activated prodrugs . Hypoxia sensitive agents administered to a subject are capable of inducing a desired therapeutic or prophylactic effect when exposed to hypoxic conditions in a subject for example in a hypoxic solid tumor in a subject. Hypoxia sensitive agents can be administered in combination with agents that induce hypoxia hypoxia inducers such as for example pyruvate or succinate .

Examples of hypoxia sensitive therapeutics include inter alia i hypoxia activated prodrugs for example tirapazamine TPZ 3 amino 1 2 4 benzotriazine 1 4 dioxide SR 4233 anthraquinone AQ4N Novacea benzamidine PR 104 2 2 bromoethyl 2 4 dinitro 6 2 phosphonooxy ethyl carbamoyl phenyl amino ethyl methanesulfonate Proacta and TH 302 Threshold Pharmaceuticals Inc. and ii hypoxia activated drugs for example mitomycin C 3 bromopyruvate and any drug that is more efficacious in hypoxic tumors. Additional examples of hypoxia sensitive cytotoxins for use as anti tumor agents include those disclosed in WO 2009 126 705 at pages 11 12 and the protein kinase C activators at column 2 of U.S. Pat. No. 5 646 185 both of which are incorporated by reference herein.

Isolated An isolated biological component such as a nucleic acid protein or organelle that has been substantially separated or purified away from other biological components in the environment such as a cell in which the component naturally occurs i.e. other chromosomal and extra chromosomal DNA and RNA proteins and organelles. Nucleic acids and proteins that have been isolated include nucleic acids and proteins purified by standard purification methods. The term also embraces nucleic acids and proteins prepared by recombinant expression in a host cell as well as chemically synthesized nucleic acids.

Label An agent capable of detection for example by ELISA spectrophotometry flow cytometry or microscopy. For example a label can be attached to a nucleic acid molecule or protein thereby permitting detection of the nucleic acid molecule or protein. Examples of labels include but are not limited to radioactive isotopes nitorimidazoles enzyme substrates co factors ligands chemiluminescent agents fluorophores haptens enzymes and combinations thereof. Methods for labeling and guidance in the choice of labels appropriate for various purposes are discussed for example in Sambrook et al. Molecular Cloning A Laboratory Manual Cold Spring Harbor N.Y. 1989 and Ausubel et al. In Current Protocols in Molecular Biology John Wiley Sons New York 1998 .

In some embodiments the label is a fluorophore fluorescent label . Fluorophores are chemical compounds which when excited by exposure to a particular wavelength of light emits light i.e. fluoresces for example at a different wavelength. Fluorophores can be described in terms of their emission profile or color. Green fluorophores for example Cy3 FITC and Oregon Green are characterized by their emission at wavelengths generally in the range of 515 540 . Red fluorophores for example Texas Red Cy5 and tetramethylrhodamine are characterized by their emission at wavelengths generally in the range of 590 690 .

Mitochondrial substrate Substrates of oxidative phosphorylation found in the mitochondria that stimulates activity of the mitochondria and reduces tissue pOin cells to which the mitochondrial substrate is provided. Examples of mitochondrial substrates include small molecules for example pyruvate and succinate and fatty acids. These are taken up as substrates in the citric acid cycle also known as the tricarboxylic acid TCA cycle or Kreb s cycle to promote cellular respiration. Cellular respiration consumes available cellular oxygen by converting oxygen into water at the end of the electron transport chain.

Neoplasia malignancy cancer and tumor A neoplasm is an abnormal growth of tissue or cells that results from excessive cell division. Neoplastic growth can produce a tumor. The amount of a tumor in an individual is the tumor burden which can be measured as the number volume or weight of the tumor. A tumor that does not metastasize is referred to as benign. A tumor that invades the surrounding tissue and or can metastasize is referred to as malignant. Malignant tumors are also referred to as cancer. 

Examples of solid tumors include fibrosarcoma myxosarcoma liposarcoma chondrosarcoma osteogenic sarcoma and other sarcomas synovioma mesothelioma Ewing s tumor leiomyosarcoma rhabdomyosarcoma colon carcinoma lymphoid malignancy pancreatic cancer breast cancer lung cancers ovarian cancer prostate cancer hepatocellular carcinoma squamous cell carcinoma basal cell carcinoma adenocarcinoma sweat gland carcinoma medullary thyroid carcinoma papillary thyroid carcinoma pheochromocytomas sebaceous gland carcinoma papillary carcinoma papillary adenocarcinomas medullary carcinoma bronchogenic carcinoma renal cell carcinoma hepatoma bile duct carcinoma choriocarcinoma Wilms tumor cervical cancer testicular tumor seminoma bladder carcinoma melanoma and CNS tumors such as a glioma astrocytoma medulloblastoma craniopharyogioma ependymoma pinealoma hemangioblastoma acoustic neuroma oligodendroglioma menangioma neuroblastoma and retinoblastoma .

Oligodeoxynucleotide A nucleic acid molecule comprising deoxyribonucleotides nucleotides with a deoxy sugar and generally having a length of 300 bases or fewer.

Partial pressure The individual pressure exerted independently by a particular gas within a mixture of gasses. The total pressure generated by the air is due in part to nitrogen in part to oxygen and in part to carbon dioxide. That part of the total pressure generated by oxygen is the partial pressure of oxygen pO while that generated by carbon dioxide is the partial pressure of carbon dioxide. A gas s partial pressure therefore is a measure of how much of that gas is present e.g. in the blood or in a tissue . The partial pressure exerted by each gas in a mixture equals the total pressure times the fractional composition of the gas in the mixture. Partial pressure can be measured in atmospheres atm Pascals Pa percent of total gas or mm of mercury Hg . Normal partial pressure in the air is 760 mmHg 1 atmosphere atm of pressure 760 mmHg 101 kPa 15 lbs square inch . As air is made up of 21 oxygen the partial pressure of oxygen pO of dry air at sea level is approximately 159 mmHg.

The partial pressure of gases such as oxygen varies in different tissues of organisms since for example complex multicellular organisms will have certain tissues respiring muscle that use up oxygen resulting in a lower partial pressure there. Blood returning to the heart from the tissues has a low pO 40 mmHg . Oxygen diffuses from the high pressure in the alveoli 100 mmHg to the area of lower pressure of the blood in the pulmonary capillaries 40 mmHg . In normal subcutaneous tissue the median pOvalue is usually between 40 and 60 mmHg. Solid tumors are generally hypoxic for example less than 3 mmHg because of inefficient delivery of oxygen to the tumor cells.

A partial pressure of oxygen lowering agent pOlowering agent refers to an agent that decreases pOin a cell or tissue such as a tumor cell or tumor tissue. Some such agents disclosed herein are selective pOlowering agents in that they preferentially lower pOin tumors as compared to non tumor tissue or they lower pOwithout affecting the partial pressure of other gases in the cell or tissue such as the partial pressure of CO pCO . Alternatively the pOlowering agent lowers pOin both tumor and non tumor tissue however since tumor tissue is already hypoxic relative to non tumor tissue the pOlowering agent preserves differential pObetween the tumor and non tumor tissue.

Pharmaceutical agent A chemical compound or composition capable of inducing a desired therapeutic or prophylactic effect when properly administered to a subject or a cell.

Pharmaceutically acceptable carriers The pharmaceutically acceptable carriers of use are conventional. by E. W. Martin Mack Publishing Co. Easton Pa. 15th Edition 1975 describes compositions and formulations suitable for pharmaceutical delivery of the compositions disclosed herein.

In general the nature of the carrier will depend on the particular mode of administration being employed. For instance parenteral formulations usually comprise injectable fluids that include pharmaceutically and physiologically acceptable fluids such as water physiological saline balanced salt solutions aqueous dextrose glycerol or the like as a vehicle. For solid compositions such as powder pill tablet or capsule forms conventional non toxic solid carriers can include for example pharmaceutical grades of mannitol lactose starch or magnesium stearate. In addition to biologically neutral carriers pharmaceutical compositions to be administered can contain minor amounts of non toxic auxiliary substances such as wetting or emulsifying agents preservatives and pH buffering agents and the like for example sodium acetate or sorbitan monolaurate.

Polypeptide A polymer in which the monomers are amino acid residues that are joined together through amide bonds. When the amino acids are alpha amino acids either the L optical isomer or the D optical isomer can be used the L isomers being preferred in nature. The term polypeptide or protein as used herein encompasses any amino acid sequence and includes but may not be limited to modified sequences such as glycoproteins or amidated proteins. The term polypeptide is specifically intended to cover naturally occurring proteins as well as those that are recombinantly or synthetically produced.

Substantially purified polypeptide as used herein refers to a polypeptide that is substantially free of other proteins lipids carbohydrates or other materials with which it is naturally associated. In one embodiment the polypeptide is at least 50 for example at least 80 free of other proteins lipids carbohydrates or other materials with which it is naturally associated. In another embodiment the polypeptide is at least 90 free of other proteins lipids carbohydrates or other materials with which it is naturally associated. In yet another embodiment the polypeptide is at least 95 free of other proteins lipids carbohydrates or other materials with which it is naturally associated.

Conservative amino acid substitution tables providing functionally similar amino acids are well known to one of ordinary skill in the art. The following six groups are examples of amino acids that are considered to be conservative substitutions for one another 

A non conservative amino acid substitution can result from changes in a the structure of the amino acid backbone in the area of the substitution b the charge or hydrophobicity of the amino acid or c the bulk of an amino acid side chain. Substitutions generally expected to produce the greatest changes in protein properties are those in which a a hydrophilic residue is substituted for or by a hydrophobic residue b a proline is substituted for or by any other residue c a residue having a bulky side chain e.g. phenylalanine is substituted for or by one not having a side chain e.g. glycine or d a residue having an electropositive side chain e.g. lysyl arginyl or histadyl is substituted for or by an electronegative residue e.g. glutamyl or aspartyl.

Variant amino acid sequences may for example be 80 90 or even 95 or 98 identical to the native amino acid sequence. Programs and algorithms for determining percentage identity can be found at the NCBI website.

Preventing treating or ameliorating a disease Preventing a disease refers to inhibiting the full development of a disease. Treating refers to a therapeutic intervention that ameliorates a sign or symptom of a disease or pathological condition after it has begun to develop. Ameliorating refers to the reduction in the number or severity of signs or symptoms of a disease.

Purified The term purified does not require absolute purity rather it is intended as a relative term. Thus for example a purified protein preparation is one in which the protein referred to is more pure than the protein in its natural environment within a cell. For example a preparation of a protein is purified such that the protein represents at least 50 of the total protein content of the preparation. Similarly a purified oligonucleotide or small molecule preparation is one in which the oligonucleotide or small molecule is more pure than in an environment including a complex mixture of oligonucleotides or small molecules respectively.

Pyruvate The carboxylate COOH ion anion of pyruvic acid CHCOCOO it is also known as 2 oxopropanoate alpha ketopropionate acetylformate and pyroracemate. It is derived from glucose and is the end product of glycolysis. It can be converted to carbohydrates such as glycogen via gluconeogenesis or to fatty acids through acetyl CoA. It can also be used to construct the amino acid alanine and be converted into ethanol. Pyruvate a reducing agent is oxidized to acetyl CoA and COby the pyruvate dehydrogenase complex PDC and acetyl CoA enters the Krebs cycle citric acid cycle or tricarboxylic acid cycle when there is sufficient oxygen available. When the oxygen is insufficient pyruvate is broken down anaerobically creating lactate in animals including humans and ethanol in plants. In some embodiments pyruvate decreases the partial pressure of oxygen in a tumor and is a hypoxia inducer or a pOlowering agent . In other embodiments pyruvate enhances the efficacy of a hypoxia sensitive agent or enhances the region within a tissue such as a tumor that a hypoxia sensitive agent is active.

Some of the methods disclosed herein use pyruvate as a substrate of mitochondrial respiration to decrease the pOof tissues or cells to which the pyruvate is supplied. However pyruvate analogs that also decrease cellular oxygen can be substituted for pyruvate. Examples of pyruvate analogs include but are not limited to pyruvate ester pyruvate thioester glycerol pyruvate ester dihydroxyacetone pyruvate ester oximes and amides of pyruvate as well as L lysine pyruvate and L histidine pyruvate. The pyruvate may be administered as a free form for example as pyruvic acid or as a salt and in some embodiments it is the sole pharmacological moiety i.e. it is not part of a larger molecule such as calcium pyruvate that has a pharmacological activity other than as a hypoxia inducing agent.

Recombinant A recombinant nucleic acid or polypeptide molecule is one that has a sequence that is not naturally occurring or has a sequence that is made by an artificial combination of two otherwise separated segments of sequence. This artificial combination can be accomplished by chemical synthesis of polypeptide or nucleic acid molecules or by the artificial manipulation of isolated segments of nucleic acid molecules such as by genetic engineering techniques.

Sample Includes biological samples such as those derived from a human or other animal source for example blood sweat breast milk bone marrow stool sera urine saliva tears biopsy samples broncho alevolar lavage fluids histology tissue samples cellular smears moles warts body secretions etc. bacterial or viral preparations cell cultures forensic samples agricultural products waste or drinking water milk or other processed foodstuff air and so forth. A sample can contain genomic DNA RNA protein or combinations thereof obtained from a subject.

Sequence identity The similarity between two nucleic acid sequences or between two amino acid sequences is expressed in terms of the level of sequence identity shared between the sequences. Sequence identity is typically expressed in terms of percentage identity the higher the percentage the more similar the two sequences.

Methods for aligning sequences for comparison are well known in the art. Various programs and alignment algorithms are described in Smith and Waterman 2 482 1981 Needleman and Wunsch 48 443 1970 Pearson and Lipman 85 2444 1988 Higgins and Sharp 73 237 244 1988 Higgins and Sharp 5 151 153 1989 Corpet et al. 16 10881 10890 1988 Huang et al. 8 155 165 1992 Pearson et al. 24 307 331 1994 Tatiana et al. 1999 174 247 250 1999. Altschul et al. present a detailed consideration of sequence alignment methods and homology calculations 215 403 410 1990 .

The National Center for Biotechnology Information NCBI Basic Local Alignment Search Tool BLAST Altschul et al. 215 403 410 1990 is available from several sources including the National Center for Biotechnology Information NCBI Bethesda Md. and on the Internet for use in connection with the sequence analysis programs blastp blastn blastx tblastn and tblastx. A description of how to determine sequence identity using this program is available on the internet under the help section for BLAST .

Small molecule A molecule typically with a molecular weight less than about 1000 Daltons or in some embodiments less than about 500 Daltons wherein the molecule is capable of having an effect on cell metabolism for example by modulating to some measurable extent an activity of a target molecule. Small molecule mitochondrial substrates of the citric acid cycle that stimulate mitochondrial respiration and lower cellular pO such as pyruvate and succinate have this activity and are small molecules.

Specific Binding Agent An agent that binds substantially or preferentially only to a defined target such as a protein enzyme polysaccharide oligonucleotide DNA RNA recombinant vector or a small molecule. Thus a RNA specific binding agent binds substantially only to the defined RNA or to a specific region within the RNA. For example a specific binding agent includes a siRNA that binds substantially to a specified RNA.

A protein specific binding agent binds substantially only the defined protein or to a specific region within the protein. For example a specific binding agent includes antibodies and other agents that bind substantially to a specified polypeptide. The antibodies can be monoclonal or polyclonal antibodies that are specific for the polypeptide as well as immunologically effective portions fragments thereof. The determination that a particular agent binds substantially only to a specific polypeptide may readily be made by using or adapting routine procedures. One suitable in vitro assay makes use of the Western blotting procedure described in many standard texts including Harlow and Lane Using Antibodies A Laboratory Manual CSHL New York 1999 .

Subject Living multi cellular vertebrate organisms a category that includes both human and veterinary subjects including human and non human mammals.

Substrate of mitochondrial respiration that increases cellular consumption of oxygen A molecule upon which an enzyme of cellular respiration acts in the mitochondria. The substrates are primarily the substrates of the citric acid cycle which are known to include oxaloacetate citrate cis aconitate isocitrate oxalosuccinate alpha ketoglutarate succinyl CoA succinate fumarate and malate L malate . Metabolism of the substrate results in the release of electrons hydrogen atoms which are transferred to oxygen resulting in the conversion of oxygen into water consumption of oxygen . Under conditions where there is an increase in the metabolism of the mitochondrial substrate either because of an increase in available substrate for example by the administration of pyruvate or succinate such as the administration of a bolus of pyruvate or succinate or an increase in the activity of the enzymes metabolizing the substrate there is a concomitant increase in the release of electrons and conversion of oxygen into water an increase in the consumption of oxygen . Thus in particular embodiments of the methods disclosed herein oxygen consumption in a cell or tissue for example a tumor can be increased when the cells or tissue are exposed to an exogenous mitochondrial substrate or a source of the substrate such as pyruvate or succinate a pOlowering agent .

Succinate A dicarboxylic acid also known as butanedioic acid or ethane 1 2 dicarboxylic acid that plays a biochemical role in the citric acid cycle Krebs cycle or tricarboxylic acid cycle . Succinate a reducing agent is capable of donating electrons to the electron transport chain and succinate can be converted to fumaric acid by oxidation. In some embodiments succinate reduces the partial pressure of oxygen in a tumor and is a hypoxia inducer or a pOlowering agent . In other embodiments succinate enhances the efficacy of a hypoxia sensitive agent. However succinate analogs that also decrease cellular oxygen can be substituted for succinate. An example of a succinate analog includes 3 sulfinopropionic acid. The succinate may be administered as a free form for example as succinic acid or as a salt and in some embodiments it is the sole pharmacological moiety i.e. it is not part of a larger molecule such as metoprolol succinate that has a pharmacological activity other than as a hypoxia inducing agent.

Therapeutic or therapy A treatment referring to a prescribed course of action including administration of therapeutic agents to alter the normal course of a disorder.

Therapeutic agent A chemical compound small molecule or other composition such as an antisense compound antibody protease inhibitor hormone chemokine or cytokine capable of inducing a desired therapeutic or prophylactic effect when properly administered to a subject.

Therapeutically effective amount A quantity of a specific substance sufficient to achieve a desired effect in a subject being treated. For instance in one embodiment a therapeutically effective amount of a pOlowering agent for example pyruvate or succinate is the amount necessary to transiently increase the level of hypoxia or decrease the pO in a tumor cell or tissue in a subject. In another embodiment a therapeutically effective amount of a pOlowering agent for example pyruvate or succinate is the amount necessary to transiently enhance the efficacy of a hypoxia sensitive agent. In yet another embodiment a therapeutically effective amount is an amount of a hypoxia sensitive agent sufficient to result in a biological effect such as a cytotoxic activity or anti tumor activity .

In some embodiments the therapeutically effective amount can be administered as a unitary or singular composition that includes a therapeutically effective combined amount of a hypoxia sensitive agent and a pOlowering agent that decreases the oxygen partial pressure and that is sufficient to enhance efficacy of the hypoxia sensitive agent compared to a control. The amount of the pOlowering agent and the hypoxia sensitive agent together should be effective to treat a target tumor.

TH 302 A 2 nitroimidazole prodrug of the DNA alkylator bromo isophosphoramide mustard developed at Threshold Pharmaceuticals Inc. It is activated only at very low levels of oxygen hypoxia which are common in solid tumors tumor hypoxia . TH 302 is converted selectively to the drug s active form dibromo isophoramide mustard a potent DNA alkylator within hypoxic tumor cells. After conversion to the active form of the drug the more resistant hypoxic cells are exposed to high concentrations of released cytotoxic agent which can also diffuse into the surrounding oxygenated regions of the tumor exerting what is referred to as a bystander effect.

TH 302 exploits the activation of a nitroazole prodrug by a process that involves a one electron reduction mediated by ubiquitous cellular reductases such as the NADPH cytochrome P450 to generate a radical anion prodrug. In the presence of oxygen normoxia the radical anion prodrug reacts rapidly with oxygen to generate the original prodrug and superoxide. Under the low oxygen conditions of the hypoxic zones in tumors however the radical anion prodrug undergoes further irreversible reductions to the hydroxylamine followed by elimination releasing the active drug and an azole derivative.

Tirapazamine TPZ Bioreductive drug 4 hydroxy 1 oxido 1 2 4 benzotriazin 1 ium 3 imine belonging to the aromatic N oxide family with selective toxicity for hypoxic cells. Intracellularly under hypoxic conditions TPZ undergoes one electron enzymatic reduction by nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate cytochrome P450 reductase to yield a transient radical anion that induces the formation of DNA radicals largely at C4 on the ribose ring either directly or through formation of superoxide leading to both single and double stranded breaks in DNA resulting in cytotoxicity.

Transient hypoxia The temporary decrease in oxygen partial pressure after the administration of an agent followed by the recovery of the oxygen partial pressure to a level that is equivalent to or not statistically different from the level before administration of the agent. Transient hypoxia occurs over the course of hours rather than days. In certain examples disclosed herein the transient decrease lasts no more than 20 16 15 10 6 or 5 hours. The length of time of the transient hypoxia can be extended by sequential doses of a hypoxia inducing agent. Transient hypoxia can be a temporary decrease in the partial pressure of oxygen from normal levels or a temporary further decrease in the partial pressure of oxygen which is already below normal levels for example in a hypoxic tumor .

Tumor hypoxia Tumor cell deprivation of an oxygen supply adequate to meet its oxygen demand at a cellular level. As a tumor grows it often outgrows its blood supply leaving portions of the tumor for example areas of higher cell density where the oxygen concentration is significantly lower than in healthy or normal tissues. Hypoxic tumors are usually resistant to radiotherapy and chemotherapy but they can be made more susceptible to treatment by increasing the amount of oxygen in them. Alternatively hypoxic cytotoxins hypoxia sensitive therapeutics can selectively kill the oxygen deficient tumor cells because they are specifically active at levels of hypoxia that are common in tumors but that are rare in normal tissues. Tumor hypoxia has been demonstrated to be associated with a worse prognosis making it a determinant of cancer progression and therapeutic response.

Vascular disruptive agent An agent that disrupts the formation of blood vessels. An example of a vascular disruptive agent includes combretastatin A4 phosphate CA4P .

Unless otherwise explained all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this disclosure belongs. The singular terms a an and the include plural referents unless context clearly indicates otherwise. Similarly the word or is intended to include and unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. Hence comprising A or B means including A or B or A and B. It is further to be understood that all base sizes or amino acid sizes and all molecular weight or molecular mass values given for nucleic acids or polypeptides are approximate and are provided for description. Although methods and materials similar or equivalent to those described herein can be used in the practice or testing of the present disclosure suitable methods and materials are described below. All publications patent applications patents and other references mentioned herein are incorporated by reference in their entirety. In case of conflict the present specification including explanations of terms will control. In addition the materials methods and examples are illustrative only and not intended to be limiting.

Disclosed herein is a method for enhancing the efficacy of a hypoxia sensitive agent in a subject comprising administering to a subject a therapeutically effective amount of the hypoxia sensitive agent and a therapeutically effective amount of a pOlowering agent wherein the amount of pOlowering agent administered is sufficient to transiently enhance the hypoxia of the tumor thereby enhancing the efficacy of the hypoxia sensitive agent compared to a control. Particular non limiting examples of the pOlowering agent include mitochondrial substrates such as pyruvate or succinate or analogs thereof for example pyruvate ester that increase cellular consumption of oxygen and lower pOin a subject or in a tumor cell or targeted portions of it.

In some embodiments the subject has a tumor. The tumor can be inter alia a fibrosarcoma myxosarcoma liposarcoma chondrosarcoma osteogenic sarcoma synovioma mesothelioma Ewing s tumor leiomyosarcoma rhabdomyosarcoma colon carcinoma lymphoid malignancy pancreatic cancer breast cancer lung cancer ovarian cancer prostate cancer hepatocellular carcinoma squamous cell carcinoma basal cell carcinoma adenocarcinoma sweat gland carcinoma medullary thyroid carcinoma papillary thyroid carcinoma pheochromocytomas sebaceous gland carcinoma papillary carcinoma papillary adenocarcinomas medullary carcinoma bronchogenic carcinoma renal cell carcinoma hepatoma bile duct carcinoma choriocarcinoma Wilms tumor cervical cancer testicular tumor seminoma bladder carcinoma melanoma or a central nervous system CNS tumor.

In some embodiments of the method the decrease in oxygen partial pressure is at least a 1 at least a 2 at least a 5 at least a 7.5 at least a 10 at least a 15 at least a 20 at least a 25 at least a 30 at least a 40 at least a 50 at least 75 or more decrease from the partial pressure of oxygen prior to administration of the pOlowering agent. In other embodiments the decrease in oxygen partial pressure increases the activity of the hypoxia sensitive agent compared to a control. The increase in activity of the hypoxia sensitive agent can be at least a 1 at least a 2 at least a 5 at least a 7.5 at least a 10 at least a 15 at least a 20 at least a 25 at least a 30 at least a 40 at least a 50 or more increase.

In some embodiments of the method the hypoxia sensitive agent is a chemotherapeutic agent. The chemotherapeutic agent can be a hypoxia activated prodrug or a hypoxia activated drug. Hypoxia activated prodrugs can be of the 2 nitroimidazole porphyrin aromatic di N oxide dinitrobenzamidine or quinone class. Specific non limiting examples of the hypoxia activated prodrug is banoxantrone AQ4N NSC 673504 benzamidine PR 104 2 2 bromoethyl 2 4 dinitro 6 2 phosphonooxy ethyl carbamoyl phenyl amino ethyl methanesulfonate tirapazamine SR4223 or TH 302. An example of a hypoxia activated drug is mitomycin C or 3 bromopyruvate.

In particular embodiments of the method the pOlowering agent is administered in a single dose or in multiple doses. In other embodiments of the method the pOlowering agent is administered prior to the hypoxia sensitive agent or with the hypoxia sensitive agent.

Also provided herein is a method of treating a subject having a tumor comprising administering to the subject a therapeutically effective amount of a pOlowering agent and therapeutically effective amount of a hypoxia sensitive agent thereby treating the subject. Particular non limiting examples of the pOlowering agent include pyruvate or succinate and analogs thereof that lower tissue pO.

It is further provided herein a method of inducing hypoxia in a tumor cell comprising administering to a subject with a tumor an unlabeled mitochondrial substrate wherein the amount of the unlabeled mitochondrial substrate is sufficient to transiently induce hypoxia of the tumor cell.

The methods disclosed herein include measuring the partial pressure of oxygen in the tumor after administration of the mitochondrial substrate and detecting a decrease in the partial pressure of oxygen.

Most solid tumors have an abnormal vasculature that allows for poor delivery of oxygen and nutrients to the tumor creating subpopulations of cells which are either acutely or chronically hypoxic. Hypoxic tumor cells are two to three times more resistant to radiotherapy due to the lack of oxygen required to induce ionizing radiation damage. Hypoxic tumor cells are also less sensitive to most cytotoxic agents for example chemotherapeutic agents in part because of the reduced penetration and delivery of the cytotoxic agents in the tumor tissue and because of the protective effects of hypoxia regulated genes. Thus agents that have a higher selective cytotoxicity for hypoxic cells or increased cytotoxicity under hypoxic conditions compared to agents that are cytotoxic under normoxic conditions are useful for targeted chemotherapy against tumors. Moreover agents that induce hypoxia in tumors can enhance the efficacy of hypoxia sensitive agents relative to a control or enhance the region within a tissue such as a tumor that a hypoxia sensitive agent is active.

It is disclosed herein that the exogenous administration of a pOlowering agent for example a mitochondrial substrate such as pyruvate or succinate to a subject or a tumor surprisingly increases the level of hypoxia decreases the partial pressure of oxygen in the tumor compared to the hypoxia levels in a tumor in the absence of the pOlowering agent. It is also disclosed herein that the increased level of hypoxia decreased oxygen partial pressure induced by the pOlowering agent can increase the activity of a hypoxia sensitive agent compared to the activity of the hypoxia sensitive agent in the absence of the pOlowering agent. Thus increasing the levels of hypoxia decreasing the oxygen partial pressure in a subject or in the subject s tumor and or increasing the activity of a hypoxia sensitive agent enhances the efficacy of the hypoxia sensitive agent administered to a tumor or to a subject having a tumor.

It is also disclosed herein that the pOlowering effect of the mitochondrial substrate is a transient effect. Thus the exogenous administration of the pOlowering agent results in a temporary decrease in oxygen partial pressure which is followed by the recovery of the oxygen partial pressure to a level that is equivalent to or not statistically different from the level before administration of the agent. The transient effect of the pOlowering agents disclosed herein provide an advantage over other hypoxia inducing agents for example anti angiogenic agents such as sunitinib and bevacizumab vascular disrupting agents such as combretastatin A4 phosphate CA4P echinomycin hypoxia inducible factor HIF 1 inhibitor and dichloroacetate PDK1 inhibitor because the previously known drugs cause long lasting hypoxia over many days that can be detrimental to healthy cells and can enhance the malignant properties of tumor cells. Moreover as the disclosed pOlowering agents are naturally found in the cell they are a relatively safe agent. As the pOlowering agent induced hypoxia is transient and reversible controlled induction of hypoxia or the controlled decrease in oxygen partial pressure can be coordinated with administration of a hypoxia sensitive agent for example over specific time periods. In addition even generalized induction of hypoxia in the subject to achieve tumor hypoxia can be achieved transiently to minimize hypoxic effects on non tumor tissue. Combination treatment regimens can be developed that involve administering pyruvate and hypoxia sensitive drugs followed by conventional radiation therapy or chemotherapy once the hypoxic conditions are sufficiently diminished.

Provided herein are methods of enhancing the efficacy of a hypoxia sensitive agent in a subject by administering to the subject a therapeutically effective amount of i a hypoxia sensitive agent and ii a pOlowering agent that is sufficient to enhance efficacy of the hypoxia sensitive agent. Also provided herein are methods of treating a subject diagnosed with a tumor comprising administering to the subject a therapeutically effective amount of a pOlowering agent and a therapeutically effective amount of a hypoxia sensitive agent.

In some embodiments the pOlowering agent is a small molecule. Particular non limiting examples of a small molecule pOlowering agent include pyruvate or succinate including their salts and analogs thereof . In other embodiments the pOlowering agent is not an anti angiogenic agent such as sunitinib and bevacizumab a vascular disrupting agent such as combretastatin A4 phosphate CA4P echinomycin hypoxia inducible factor HIF 1 inhibitor or dichloroacetate pyruvate dehydrogenase kinase PDK 1 inhibitor or an embolizing agent that physically disrupts blood flow to the tissue. In some embodiments the administration of a pOlowering agent such as pyruvate or succinate to a solid tumor or to a subject having a solid tumor transiently increases the level of hypoxia decreases the oxygen partial pressure in the tumor compared to the hypoxia levels in a tumor in the absence of the pOlowering agent control levels .

In some embodiments a hypoxic tumor may be hypoxic in some regions of the tumor but not hypoxic in other regions relative to non tumor tissues or cells. Alternatively in other embodiments a hypoxic tumor may be variably hypoxic exhibit various levels of hypoxia across the tumor tissue . Administration of a pOlowering agent hypoxia inducer can induce hypoxia in the tumor such that a larger proportion or percentage of the tumor is transiently hypoxic i.e. the tumor has a larger hypoxic region or fraction . In one specific non limiting example administration of a pOlowering agent can render a tumor homogeneously hypoxic. In another embodiment administration of a pOlowering agent can further reduce the pOlevel in any region of a tumor. A pOlowering agent can transiently reduce pOlevels or transiently increase hypoxia in normoxic regions in a tumor in tumor regions that have not reached a threshold hypoxia or in all regions of a tumor regardless of their endogenous pO hypoxia levels.

The transient increase in hypoxia levels can be at least a 1 at least a 2 at least a 5 at least a 7.5 at least a 10 at least a 15 at least a 20 at least a 25 at least a 30 at least a 40 at least a 50 at least a 75 or more increase compared to control hypoxia levels. Similarly the transient decrease in the oxygen partial pressure can be at least a 1 at least a 2 at least a 5 at least a 7.5 at least a 10 at least a 15 at least a 20 at least a 25 at least a 30 at least a 40 at least a 50 at least a 75 at least an 80 at least a 90 or more decrease compared to oxygen partial pressure levels in a tumor in the absence of the pOlowering agent control levels . One or more pOlowering agents that transiently decrease the partial pressure of oxygen can be administered to a tumor or to a subject having a tumor. For example at least two at least three at least four at least five pOlowering agents can be administered either alone or in combination.

In some embodiments the administration of a pOlowering agent such as pyruvate or succinate transiently increases the hypoxic fraction percent of tissue with pO

In some embodiments a hypoxia sensitive agent includes such an agent that localizes in hypoxic tissues. In particular embodiments the hypoxia sensitive agent is of the 2 nitroimidazole porphyrin aromatic di N oxide dinitrobenzamidine or quinone class. A hypoxia sensitive agent can be a chemotherapeutic agent an anti proliferative agent a cytotoxic agent or a cell killing agent. The hypoxia sensitive agent can be a hypoxia activated drug or a hypoxia activated prodrug. Without being bound by theory a hypoxia activated prodrug is converted enzymatically in hypoxic cells i.e. conditions of low oxygen tension facilitate enzymatic bioactivation to a stable persistent cytotoxin. Specific non limiting examples of a hypoxia activated prodrug include banoxantrone AQ4N NSC 673504 Novacea Inc. PR 104 Proacta Inc. tirapazamine SR4223 and TH 302 Threshold Pharmaceuticals Inc. . Specific non limiting examples of a hypoxia activated drug include mitomycin C and 3 bromopyruvate.

In some embodiments the hypoxia sensitive agent is inactive until exposed to hypoxic conditions of the type found in tumor cells. Hypoxia sensitive agents administered to a subject are capable of inducing a desired therapeutic effect for example a chemotherapeutic effect when exposed to hypoxic conditions in a subject for example in a tumor in a subject. In particular embodiments of the method the transient decrease in oxygen partial pressure in the presence of the pOlowering agent such as a mitochondrial substrate of cellular respiration such as pyruvate or succinate increases the activity for example the chemotherapeutic anti proliferative cytotoxic or cell killing activity of a hypoxia sensitive agent compared to the activity of a hypoxia sensitive agent in the absence of the pOlowering agent. The increase in activity of the hypoxia sensitive agent can be at least about a 1 at least about a 2 at least about a 5 at least about a 7.5 at least about a 10 at least about a 15 at least about a 20 at least about a 25 at least about a 30 at least about a 40 at least about a 50 at least about a 75 at least about an 80 at least about a 90 at least about a 100 at least about a 150 at least about a 200 or more increase. In addition the increase in activity of the hypoxia sensitive agent can be at least about 10 fold or greater for example about 20 200 fold or from about 50 to 200 fold. In one embodiment the increase in activity is a transient increase.

In other embodiments of the method the transient decrease in oxygen partial pressure in the presence of the pOlowering agent such as a mitochondrial substrate of cellular respiration such as pyruvate or succinate enhances or increases the region surface area or volume within a tissue such as a tumor that is hypoxic i.e. increases the hypoxic region or fraction and therefore increases the region that a hypoxia sensitive agent is active within the tissue. The increase in the region can be at least about a 1 at least about a 2 at least about a 5 at least about a 7.5 at least about a 10 at least about a 15 at least about a 20 at least about a 25 at least about a 30 at least about a 40 at least about a 50 at least about a 75 at least about an 80 at least about a 90 at least about a 100 at least about a 150 at least about a 200 or more increase. In one embodiment the increase in the region is a transient increase. One or more hypoxia sensitive agents can be administered to a tumor for example by regioselective intravascular injection or systemically to a subject having a tumor. For example at least two at least three at least four at least five hypoxia sensitive agents can be administered either alone or in combination.

A substrate of mitochondrial respiration that increases cellular consumption of oxygen is a molecule upon which an enzyme of cellular respiration acts in the mitochondria. The substrates are primarily the substrates of the citric acid cycle which are known to include oxaloacetate citrate cis aconitate isocitrate oxalosuccinate alpha ketoglutarate succinyl CoA succinate fumarate and malate L malate . Under normal oxygen tensions glucose is catabolized into pyruvate via the glycolysis pathway. Pyruvate then enters the mitochondria and is further catabolized in the tricarboxylic acid TCA cycle. Energy in the form of ATP is produced as electrons are transferred through the electron transport chain which terminates with the donation of electrons to oxygen thereby converting oxygen into water consumption of oxygen .

Under conditions of hypoxia pyruvate catabolism is redirected towards lactic acid lactate production and there is a concomitant decrease in mitochondrial respiration and oxygen consumption that increases the pOof the cell. The adaptation of cells to hypoxic conditions is an active process resulting in changes in cellular gene expression initiated by the hypoxia inducible factor 1 HIF 1 transcription factor. HIF 1 has been shown to actively regulate the oxygen demand of hypoxic tissues by reducing the activity of the mitochondria and actively suppressing mitochondrial pyruvate catabolism and respiration. More specifically under hypoxic conditions HIF 1 induces pyruvate dehydrogenase kinase 1 PDK1 which phosphorylates and inhibits pyruvate dehydrogenase PDH thereby limiting the conversion of pyruvate to acetyl CoA at the entry of the TCA cycle and increasing conversion of pyruvate to lactate. This in turn leads to decreased mitochondrial oxygen consumption i.e. increased oxygenation in the cells.

It is surprisingly demonstrated herein that the exogenous administration of a pOlowering agent for example a mitochondrial substrate such as pyruvate or succinate to a subject having a hypoxic tumor increases the level of hypoxia decreases the partial pressure of oxygen rather than decreases the level of hypoxia in the tumor by increasing mitochondrial aerobic respiration. Thus in particular embodiments of the methods disclosed herein oxygen consumption in a cell or tissue for example a tumor can be increased and hypoxia is increased when the hypoxic cells or tissue are exposed to an exogenous mitochondrial substrate or a source of the substrate such as pyruvate or succinate a pOlowering agent compared to a cell or tumor not exposed to the mitochondrial substrate.

Without being bound by theory in one specific non limiting example a temporal increase in lactate levels in a tumor or tumor cell is detected when the cells or tumor are exposed to pyruvate compared to a cell or tumor in the absence of exogenous pyruvate such that in contrast to normal tissues a large percentage of administered pyruvate may be initially converted to lactate while only a small percentage of the pyruvate enters the mitochondria. With a gradual decrease in intracellular pyruvate levels lactate is converted into pyruvate. The pyruvate is catabolized in the mitochondria resulting in increased oxygen consumption compared to a cell or tumor not administered the exogenous pyruvate.

In one embodiment of the method partial pressure of oxygen levels are measured after the administration of the mitochondrial substrate. In another embodiment lactate levels are measured after the administration of the mitochondrial substrate. In a further embodiment partial pressure of oxygen levels and lactate levels are measured after the administration of the mitochondrial substrate. In one specific non limiting example a decrease in the pOis detected in the tumor or tumor cell compared to a cell or tumor not adminstered the mitochondrial substrate. In another specific non limiting example an increase and then a decrease in the level of lactate is detected. In yet another specific non limiting example a transient increase in the level of lactate and a decrease in the pOis detected in the tumor or tumor cell compared to a cell or tumor not administered the mitochondrial substrate.

In some embodiments the pOlowering agent is not labeled. In other embodiments a detectable moiety can be linked to the pOlowering agent or to the hypoxia sensitive agent. Detectable moieties suitable for such use include any composition detectable by spectroscopic photochemical biochemical immunochemical electrical optical or chemical means. The detectable moieties contemplated for the present disclosure can include but are not limited to a fluorescent moiety e.g. fluorescein rhodamine Texas red and the like a radioactive moiety e.g. H P I S a stable isotope C an enzyme moiety e.g. horseradish peroxidase alkaline phosphatase a colorimetric moiety e.g. colloidal gold biotin colored glass or plastic and the like .

Means of detecting such moieties are well known to those of skill in the art. Thus for example radiolabels may be detected using photographic film or scintillation counters fluorescent markers may be detected using a photodetector to detect emitted illumination and stable isotopes may be detected using magnetic resonance imaging. Enzymatic labels are typically detected by providing the enzyme with a substrate and detecting the reaction product produced by the action of the enzyme on the substrate and colorimetric labels are detected by simply visualizing the colored label.

A pOlowering agent can be administered in combination with any hypoxia sensitive agent for the treatment of any tumor. Tumors or neoplasms include new growths of tissue in which the multiplication of cells is uncontrolled and progressive i.e. hyperproliferation . Some such growths are benign but others are termed malignant leading to death of the organism. Malignant neoplasms or cancers are distinguished from benign growths in that in addition to exhibiting aggressive cellular proliferation they invade surrounding tissues and metastasize. Moreover malignant neoplasms are characterized in that they show a greater loss of differentiation greater dedifferentiation and of their organization relative to one another and their surrounding tissues. This property is also called anaplasia. 

Tumors treatable by the disclosed methods include benign tumors or malignant tumors. Benign tumors and malignant tumors also referred to as cancer include solid tumors. Examples of solid tumors include fibrosarcoma myxosarcoma liposarcoma chondrosarcoma osteogenic sarcoma and other sarcomas synovioma mesothelioma Ewing s tumor leiomyosarcoma rhabdomyosarcoma colon carcinoma lymphoid malignancy pancreatic cancer breast cancer lung cancers ovarian cancer prostate cancer hepatocellular carcinoma squamous cell carcinoma basal cell carcinoma adenocarcinoma sweat gland carcinoma medullary thyroid carcinoma papillary thyroid carcinoma pheochromocytomas sebaceous gland carcinoma papillary carcinoma papillary adenocarcinomas medullary carcinoma bronchogenic carcinoma renal cell carcinoma hepatoma bile duct carcinoma choriocarcinoma Wilms tumor cervical cancer testicular tumor seminoma bladder carcinoma melanoma and central nervous system CNS tumors such as a glioma astrocytoma medulloblastoma craniopharyogioma ependymoma pinealoma hemangioblastoma acoustic neuroma oligodendroglioma menangioma neuroblastoma and retinoblastoma . Thus selecting a subject in need of treatment with the hypoxia sensitive agent includes selecting a subject diagnosed with any tumor disclosed herein.

Some embodiments of the presently disclosed methods provide for treatment of a tumor known or suspected of preceding progression to neoplasia or cancer for example where non neoplastic cell growth consisting of hyperplasia metaplasia or dysplasia has occurred for review of such abnormal growth conditions see Robbins and Angell 1976 Basic Pathology 2d Ed. W.B. Saunders Co. Philadelphia pp. 68 79 . Hyperplasia is a form of controlled cell proliferation involving an increase in cell number in a tissue or organ without significant alteration in structure or function. As but one example endometrial hyperplasia often precedes endometrial cancer. Metaplasia is a form of controlled cell growth in which one type of adult or fully differentiated cell substitutes for another type of adult cell. Metaplasia can occur in epithelial or connective tissue cells. Atypical metaplasia involves a somewhat disorderly metaplastic epithelium. Dysplasia is frequently a forerunner of cancer and is found mainly in the epithelia it is the most disorderly form of non neoplastic cell growth involving a loss in individual cell uniformity and in the architectural orientation of cells. Dysplastic cells often have abnormally large deeply stained nuclei and exhibit pleomorphism. Dysplasia characteristically occurs where there exists chronic irritation or inflammation and is often found in the cervix respiratory passages oral cavity and gall bladder. For a review of such disorders see Fishman et al. 1985 Medicine 2d Ed. J. B. Lippincott Co. Philadelphia.

In certain embodiments the presently disclosed methods are directed to a method for treating a subject having a tumor. In some embodiments the disclosed methods are directed to a method of inhibiting cancer or tumor growth including processes of cellular proliferation invasiveness and metastasis in biological systems. Preferably the method is employed to inhibit or reduce cancer or tumor cell proliferation invasiveness metastasis recurrence or tumor incidence in living animals such as mammals e.g. humans .

Also provided herein is a method of inducing cytotoxicity cell killing in cancer or tumor cells or reducing the viability of cancer or tumor cells. For example the method can be used to induce cytotoxicity in cells of carcinomas for example carcinomas of the prostate breast ovary testis lung colon or breast.

The disclosed methods can be used for the killing of cancer or tumor cells with less reduced cytotoxicity to normal non tumor cells or tissues than is found with conventional cytotoxic therapeutics preferably without substantial cytotoxicity to the normal cells or tissues. For example the combination therapy identified herein a pOlowering agent and a hypoxia sensitive agent can generate an environment in a tumor or tumor cell that is susceptible to inducing cytotoxicity while producing little or substantially no cytotoxicity in normal normoxic non tumor cells. Thus unlike conventional cytotoxic anticancer therapeutics which typically kill all growing cells the combination therapy can produce differential cytotoxicity inducing hypoxia in tumors or tumor cells wherein the hypoxic tumors are selectively killed whereas normal normoxic cells are spared. Thus in another embodiment there is disclosed a method for inducing differential cytotoxicity in cancer cells relative to normal cells or tissue.

The pOlowering agent can be administered prior to administering the hypoxia sensitive agent combined with the administration of the hypoxia sensitive agent following the administration of the hypoxia sensitive agent or any combination thereof. Combination treatment of the pOlowering agent and the hypoxia sensitive agent can be achieved either by concurrent administration of the agents together or sequential administration in sufficient close temporal proximity for the pOlowering agent to increase the level of hypoxia in the tumor increase the proportion or percentage of the tumor that is hypoxic increase the hypoxic region or fraction of the tumor or increase the activity of the hypoxia sensitive agent.

Sequential administration of the pOlowering agent and the hypoxia sensitive agent for example can include the administration of the pOlowering agent and the hypoxia sensitive agent no more than 30 seconds no more than 1 minute no more than 2 minutes no more than 3 minutes no more than 4 minutes no more than 5 minutes no more than 10 minutes no more than 20 minutes no more than 30 minutes no more than 40 minutes no more than 50 minutes no more than 60 minutes no more than 90 minutes no more than 2 hours no more than 3 hours no more than 4 hours or no more than 5 hours apart. The pOlowering agent can be administered first followed by the hypoxia sensitive agent or vice versa. In some embodiments the pOlowering agent and the hypoxia sensitive agent are repeatedly administered for example alternately administered.

In one embodiment the pOlowering agent is administered in one dose. For example the pOlowering agent is administered prior to in combination with or following the first dose of a hypoxia sensitive agent. In other embodiments the pOlowering agent is administered in two or more doses for example at least 2 at least 3 at least 4 at least 5 or more doses such as prior to each dose of a hypoxia sensitive agent. The pOlowering agent can further be administered after one or more doses of a hypoxia sensitive agent. The doses can be administered on the same day or at regular intervals over the course of hours days weeks months or years.

In yet other embodiments the pOlowering agent is administered in repeated sequential doses for example at least 2 at least 3 at least 4 at least 5 or more sequential doses in order to sustain the increased level of hypoxia decreased oxygen partial pressure in the tumor the increased proportion of hypoxic tumor tissue and or the increased activity of the hypoxia sensitive agent until for example the concentration of the hypoxia sensitive agent decreases below therapeutically effective levels at the site of the tumor. In a particular non limiting example the pOlowering agent is administered in two or more doses for example at least 2 at least 3 at least 4 at least 5 or more doses wherein the first dose of the pOlowering agent is administered prior to a single dose of a hypoxia sensitive agent and one or more subsequent doses of the pOlowering agent are administered following the single dose of the hypoxia sensitive agent in order to sustain the increased level of hypoxia decreased oxygen partial pressure in the tumor or to sustain the increased hypoxic fraction and or the increased activity of the hypoxia sensitive agent until for example the concentration of the hypoxia sensitive agent decreases below therapeutically effective levels at the site of the tumor. In some embodiments the sequential repeated administrations of the pOlowering agent can be about every 30 minutes about every 1 hour about every 2 hours about every 3 hours about every 4 hours about every 5 hours or more. The number of sequential administrations and timing between sequential administrations of the pOlowering agent will depend upon among other factors the half life of the hypoxia sensitive agent.

In other particular non limiting examples a single or sequential administration of the pOlowering agent is combined with a prolonged for example at least about 4 hours at least about 5 hours at least about 6 hours at least about 7 hours at least about 8 hours at least about 9 hours at least about 10 hours at least about 12 hours at least about 15 hours at least about 20 hours at least about 24 hours at least about 36 hours or more single administration of a hypoxia sensitive agent or multiple administrations for example at least 2 at least 3 at least 4 at least 5 at least 10 or more doses of a hypoxia sensitive agent.

In some embodiments the pOlowering agent and hypoxia sensitive agent can be administered as a unitary or singular composition that includes a therapeutically effective combined amount of a hypoxia sensitive agent and a pOlowering agent that decreases the oxygen partial pressure and that is sufficient to enhance efficacy of the hypoxia sensitive agent compared to a control. The amount of the pOlowering agent and the hypoxia sensitive agent together should be effective to treat a target tumor. In further embodiments a therapeutically effective amount of a hypoxia sensitive agent and a therapeutically effective amount of a pOlowering agent are administered.

It is contemplated that further agents can be administered in addition to the pOlowering agent and the hypoxia sensitive agent disclosed herein. In some embodiments radiotherapy chemotherapeutic agents or other anti tumor agents such as anti angiogenic or vascular disruptive agents that are not activated under hypoxic conditions or which are inactive or less active under hypoxic conditions can be administered to the tumor or to the subject having the tumor following the completion of the transient effect of the pOlowering agent. Examples of chemotherapeutic agents include melphalan Alkeran cyclophosphamide Cytoxan cisplatin Platinol busulfan Busilvex Myleran doxorubicin adriamycin and paclitaxel. Examples of anti angiogenic agents include sunitinib sorafenib and bevacizumab. Anti angiogensis agents also include native angiogenesis inhibitors for example angiostatin and endostatin. Examples of a vascular disrupting agent include combretastatin A4 phosphate CA4P and taxanes.

Radiotherapy chemotherapeutic agents or anti tumor agents can be administered after the oxygen partial pressure in the tumor recovers to the level prior to the administration of the pOlowering agent. In specific non limiting examples the radiotherapy or chemotherapeutic agent can be administered at least about 30 minutes at least about 1 hour at least about 2 hours at least about 3 hours at least about 4 hours at least about 5 hours at least about 6 hours at least about 7 hours at least about 8 hours at least about 9 hours at least about 10 hours at least about 12 hours at least about 18 hours at least about 24 hours after the administration of the pOlowering agent. In other specific non limiting examples the radiotherapy or chemotherapeutic agent can be administered at least about 10 minutes at least about 15 minutes at least about 20 minutes at least about 30 minutes at least about 40 minutes at least about 50 minutes at least about 60 minutes at least about 90 minutes at least about 2 hours at least about 3 hours at least about 4 hours at least about 5 hours at least about 6 hours at least about 7 hours at least about 8 hours at least about 9 hours at least about 10 hours at least about 12 hours at least about 18 hours at least about 24 hours after the oxygen partial pressure in the tumor recovers to the level prior to the administration of the pOlowering agent.

Oxygen partial pressure levels in tissues for examples tumors can be measured by any means known to one of skill in the art. In one embodiment measurement of tumor oxygenation uses fiber optic sensors such as those of the Oxylite system Oxford Optronix Oxford United Kingdom which is based on probe based measurements of oxygen dependent fluorescence quenching and signal detection over fiber optic cables. The system employs concurrent measurements of tissue temperature using thermocouples. In one specific non limiting example of the method two oxygen probes are inserted into different parts of the tumor one close to the surface the other at the center of the tumor. A third probe is inserted into the muscle of the opposite hind leg as a control. Thermocouples are inserted into the tumor and the muscle. Oxygen and temperature values are monitored constantly throughout the experiment. In other embodiments pOlevels can be measured using magnetic resonance imaging MRI or oxygen sensitive needle electrodes.

Tumor oxygen status can be investigated or screened using the EPR imaging EPRI technique. EPR is a spectropscopic technique similar to NMR but it detects paramagnetic species which have unpaired electrons. As the line width of paramagnetic species varies depending on oxygen concentration EPR combined with an appropriate paramagnetic tracer for example triarylmethyl radicals TAM can be used for estimating tissue oxygen status. In one embodiment EPRI can be used to determine whether a tumor is sufficiently hypoxic either by measuring tumor pOor the hypoxic fraction of the tumor such that administration of pyruvate prior to the administration of a hypoxia sensitive agent may not be necessary. In another embodiment EPRI can be used to determine the hypoxic status of different tumors for example tumors of different type or stage following pyruvate administration to determine if the tumors respond to pyruvate treatment similarly. EPRI can therefore be used to determine whether dosage or timing of pyruvate administration prior to administration of a hypoxia sensitive agent should be varied depending upon the tumor type or stage.

Tumor hypoxia can also be detected using hypoxia binding chemical markers. These markers are nitroheterocyclic compounds which exhibit a particular metabolism under hypoxic cellular conditions and hence can covalently bind to intracellular macromolecules e.g. proteins RNA lipids and DNA . These reduced moieties trapped into hypoxic cells can be detected by immunofluorescence on tissue section or by flow cytometry using specific antibodies. Tagged with an appropriate radioactive isotope these reduced moieties could also be detected by nuclear medicine techniques. Misonidazole is the prototype of hypoxia binding chemical markers. In addition tri and pentafluorinated nitroimidazole derivates designated EF3 and EF5 respectively have been synthesized U.S. Pat. No. 5 540 908 in name of Koch .

In another embodiment pOlevels can be measured by histology by comparing the pimonidazole hypoxic fraction with total vital tissue. Pimonidazole is a well established immunohistochemical marker of tumor hypoxia. In particular examples of the method tumors are cryosectioned and sections fixed and stained with fluorescently labeled antibodies. Slides are scanned using a fluorescence microscope equipped with a computerized stage and shutter. After fluorescence imaging the same sections are stained with hematoxylin eosin to determine vital tumor areas. The measurement of pOlevel is the differences in the pimonidazole positive vs. overall vital tumor area.

As used herein an effective amount of a pOlowering agent is an amount sufficient to result in a biological effect such as increasing the hypoxia level in a tumor cell decreasing the oxygen partial pressure in a tumor cell and or increasing the activity of a hypoxia sensitive agent . In one embodiment an effective amount of a pOlowering agent is therapeutically effective amount. A therapeutically effective amount is an amount sufficient to result in a biological effect such as increasing the hypoxia level in a tumor or in a subject having a tumor decreasing the oxygen partial pressure in a tumor or in a subject having a tumor and or increasing the activity of a hypoxia sensitive agent . One skilled in the art can readily determine a therapeutically effective amount of a pOlowering agent to be administered to a given subject by taking into account factors such as the size and weight of the subject the extent of disease progression the age health and sex of the subject the route of administration and whether the administration is regional or systemic. In other embodiments a therapeutically effective amount is an amount of a hypoxia sensitive agent sufficient to result in a biological effect such as a cytotoxic activity or anti tumor activity .

For example a therapeutically effective systemic amount of a pOlowering agent or a hypoxia sensitive agent can be based on the approximate body weight of a subject to be treated. For more targeted delivery of the agent for example by targeted delivery to the site of a tumor by intravascular infusion into an artery that selectively perfuses a tumor or an organ in which it is contained dosages can be determined empirically or by tumor volume and or location. Such effective amounts can be exogenously administered by any suitable route such as for example parenterally or enterally. In one specific non limiting example the effective amount of the administered pOlowering agent is an isotonic concentration. In another non limiting example a therapeutically effective amount of the pOlowering agent is administered as a bolus amount e.g. administered to raise its concentration in blood to an effective level . In a further non limiting example a therapeutically effective amount of the pOlowering agent is at least 0.50 mmol kg body weight. In other non limiting examples a therapeutically effective amount of the pOlowering agent is at least about 0.05 mmol kg at least about 0.06 mmol kg at least about 0.07 mmol kg at least about 0.08 mmol kg at least about 0.09 mmol kg at least about 0.1 mmol kg at least about 0.2 mmol kg at least about 0.3 mmol kg at least about 0.5 mmol kg at least about 1.0 mmol kg at least about 1.05 mmol kg at least about 1.1 mmol kg at least about 1.15 mmol kg at least about 1.2 mmol kg at least about 1.25 mmol kg at least about 1.30 mmol kg at least about 1.35 mmol kg at least about 1.40 mmol kg at least about 1.45 mmol kg at least about 1.5 mmol kg at least about 1.75 mmol kg at least about 2.0 mmol kg at least about 5.0 mmol kg or more. Further non limiting ranges for a therapeutically effective amount of the pOlowering agent are about 0.05 mmol kg to about 1.5 mmol kg about 0.07 mmol kg to about 1.3 mmol kg about 0.1 mmol kg to about 1.1 mmol kg about 0.12 mmol kg to about 1.0 mmol kg about 0.15 mmol kg to about 0.70 mmol kg or about 0.20 mmol kg to about 0.50 mmol kg.

Other non limiting therapeutically effective amounts of an agent for example a hypoxia sensitive agent within the methods and formulations of the disclosure are at least about 0.01 mg kg at least about 0.02 mg kg at least about 0.03 mg kg at least about 0.04 mg kg at least about 0.05 mg kg at least about 0.06 mg kg at least about 0.07 mg kg at least about 0.08 mg kg at least about 0.09 mg kg at least about 0.10 mg kg at least about 0.20 mg kg at least about 0.30 mg kg at least about 0.40 mg kg at least about 0.50 mg kg at least about 0.60 mg kg at least about 0.70 mg kg at least about 0.80 mg kg at least about 0.90 mg kg at least about 1.0 mg kg at least about 2.0 mg kg at least about 5.0 mg kg at least about 7.0 mg kg at least about 10 mg kg at least about 20 mg kg at least about 30 mg kg at least about 40 mg kg at least about 50 mg kg at least about 60 mg kg at least about 70 mg kg at least about 80 mg kg at least about 90 mg kg at least about 100 mg kg at least about 125 mg kg at least about 150 mg kg at least about 175 mg kg at least about 200 mg kg at least about 250 mg kg at least about 500 mg kg Therapeutically effective ranges of an agent are about 0.01 mg kg body weight to about 20 mg kg body weight such as about 0.05 mg kg to about 5 mg kg body weight about 0.2 mg kg to about 2 mg kg body weight about 0.1 mg kg to about 0.5 mg kg body weight or about 0.1 mg kg to about 200 mg kg body weight.

One skilled in the art can also readily determine an appropriate dosage regimen for the exogenous administration of a pOlowering agent or a hypoxia sensitive agent disclosed herein to a given subject. For example a pOlowering agent or a hypoxia sensitive agent can be administered to the subject once e.g. as a single injection or deposition . Alternatively a pOlowering agent and or a hypoxia sensitive agent can be administered once twice or more daily to a subject for a period of from about three to about twenty eight days more particularly from about seven to about ten days. In particular dosage regimens a pOlowering agent and or a hypoxia sensitive agent is administered once a day for seven days once a week for several weeks once a month for several months.

Therapeutic agents can be administered to a subject in need of treatment using any suitable means known in the art. pOlowering agents and or hypoxia sensitive agents are preferably administered to a subject in a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or diluent. The choice of pharmaceutically acceptable carrier will depend on a variety of factors including the type of inhibitor route of administration and the disease to be treated. To formulate the pharmaceutical compositions the agents can be combined with various pharmaceutically acceptable additives as well as a base or vehicle for dispersion of the compound. Desired additives include but are not limited to pH control agents such as arginine sodium hydroxide glycine hydrochloric acid citric acid and the like. In addition local anesthetics for example benzyl alcohol isotonizing agents for example sodium chloride mannitol sorbitol adsorption inhibitors for example Tween 80 or Miglyol 812 and solubility enhancing agents for example cyclodextrins and derivatives thereof stabilizers for example serum albumin can be included. Adjuvants such as aluminum hydroxide for example Amphogel Wyeth Laboratories Madison N.J. Freund s adjuvant MPL 3 O deacylated monophosphoryl lipid A Corixa Hamilton Ind. and IL 12 Genetics Institute Cambridge Mass. among many other suitable adjuvants well known in the art can be included in the compositions. In particular embodiments the pOlowering agents disclosed herein may be administered as a free form for example as pyruvic acid or succinic acid or as a salt and in some embodiments it is the sole pharmacological moiety i.e. it is not part of a larger molecule such as calcium pyruvate or doxylamine succinate that has a pharmacological activity other than as a hypoxia inducing agent.

When the composition is a liquid the tonicity of the formulation as measured with reference to the tonicity of 0.9 w v physiological saline solution taken as unity is typically adjusted to a value at which no substantial irreversible tissue damage will be induced at the site of administration. Generally the tonicity of the solution is adjusted to a value of about 0.3 to about 3.0 such as about 0.5 to about 2.0 or about 0.8 to about 1.7. In particular embodiments the pOlowering agents disclosed herein for example pyruvate or succinate may be administered in an isotonic solution.

The compositions of the disclosure can alternatively contain as pharmaceutically acceptable vehicles substances as required to approximate physiological conditions such as pH adjusting and buffering agents tonicity adjusting agents wetting agents and the like for example sodium acetate sodium lactate sodium chloride potassium chloride calcium chloride sorbitan monolaurate and triethanolamine oleate. For solid compositions conventional nontoxic pharmaceutically acceptable vehicles can be used which include for example pharmaceutical grades of mannitol lactose starch magnesium stearate sodium saccharin talcum cellulose glucose sucrose magnesium carbonate and the like.

Pharmaceutical compositions for administering the agents can also be formulated as a solution microemulsion or other ordered structure suitable for high concentration of active ingredients. The vehicle can be a solvent or dispersion medium containing for example water ethanol polyol for example glycerol propylene glycol liquid polyethylene glycol and the like and suitable mixtures thereof. Proper fluidity for solutions can be maintained for example by the use of a coating such as lecithin by the maintenance of a desired particle size in the case of dispersible formulations and by the use of surfactants. In many cases it will be desirable to include isotonic agents for example sugars polyalcohols such as mannitol and sorbitol or sodium chloride in the composition. Prolonged absorption of the compound can be brought about by including in the composition an agent which delays absorption for example monostearate salts and gelatin.

In certain embodiments the agents can be administered in a time release formulation for example in a composition which includes a slow release polymer. These compositions can be prepared with vehicles that will protect against rapid release for example a controlled release vehicle such as a polymer microencapsulated delivery system or bioadhesive gel. Prolonged delivery in various compositions of the disclosure can be brought about by including in the composition agents that delay absorption for example aluminum monostearate hydrogels and gelatin. When controlled release formulations are desired controlled release binders suitable for use in accordance with the disclosure include any biocompatible controlled release material which is inert to the active agent and which is capable of incorporating the compound and or other biologically active agent. Numerous such materials are known in the art. Useful controlled release binders are materials that are metabolized slowly under physiological conditions following their delivery for example at a mucosal surface or in the presence of bodily fluids . Appropriate binders include but are not limited to biocompatible polymers and copolymers well known in the art for use in sustained release formulations. Such biocompatible compounds are non toxic and inert to surrounding tissues and do not trigger significant adverse side effects such as nasal irritation immune response inflammation or the like. They are metabolized into metabolic products that are also biocompatible and easily eliminated from the body.

Preparations for parenteral administration include sterile aqueous or non aqueous solutions suspensions and emulsions. Examples of non aqueous solvents are propylene glycol polyethylene glycol vegetable oils such as olive oil and injectable organic esters such as ethyl oleate. Aqueous carriers include water alcoholic aqueous solutions emulsions or suspensions including saline and buffered media. Parenteral vehicles include sodium chloride solution Ringer s dextrose dextrose and sodium chloride lactated Ringer s or fixed oils. Intravenous vehicles include fluid and nutrient replenishers electrolyte replenishers such as those based on Ringer s dextrose and the like. Preservatives and other additives may also be present such as for example antimicrobials anti oxidants chelating agents and inert gases and the like.

Formulations for topical administration may include ointments lotions creams gels drops suppositories sprays liquids and powders. Conventional pharmaceutical carriers aqueous powder or oily bases thickeners and the like may be necessary or desirable.

Compositions for oral administration include powders or granules suspensions or solutions in water or non aqueous media capsules sachets or tablets. Thickeners flavorings diluents emulsifiers dispersing aids or binders may be desirable.

The compositions disclosed herein one or both of the hypoxia sensitive agent and the pOlowering agent can be administered directly to a tumor for example by intratumoral injection or regionally for example to the blood vessels supplying the tumor or the tissue in which the tumor is contained . However in other embodiments one or both are administered systemically for example intravascularly .

Administration can be accomplished by single or multiple doses. The dose required will vary from subject to subject depending on the species age weight and general condition of the subject the particular type of pOlowering agent and or hypoxia sensitive agent being used and the mode of administration. An appropriate dose can be determined by one of ordinary skill in the art using only routine experimentation. If administered in multiple doses the time between delivery of each dose can vary between hours days weeks months and years.

The administration of the agents can be for either prophylactic or therapeutic purposes. When provided prophylactically the agents are provided in advance of any symptom. The prophylactic administration of the agents serves to prevent or ameliorate any subsequent disease process. When provided therapeutically the compound is provided at or shortly after the onset of a symptom of disease.

The following examples are provided to illustrate certain particular features and or embodiments. These examples should not be construed to limit the disclosure to the particular features or embodiments described.

Hyperpolarization of C labeled compounds was found to greatly increase the magnetic resonance MR signal by more than 10000 fold Ardenkj r Larsen et al. 100 10158 10163 2003 and provides sufficient signals to image the hyperpolarized compounds and their metabolites in vivo. This technique provides the ability to monitor metabolic processes of the hyperpolarized substrates in live animals Golman et al. 103 11270 11275 2006 and Gallagher et al. 55 285 295 2009 . The use of C labeled pyruvate for cancer studies is of great interest since pyruvate is involved in important bioenergetic processes that are altered in pathologic conditions such as cancer.

Acetyl CoA and COare formed from pyruvate in the reaction catalyzed by pyruvate dehydrogenase under aerobic conditions subsequently acetyl CoA enters the tricarboxylic acid TCA cycle. Under hypoxic conditions pyruvate is metabolized to lactate in the reaction catalyzed by lactate dehydrogenase LDH . As tumors grow they become hypoxic since the new blood vessels are aberrant and unable to deliver oxygen nutrients or drugs efficiently Brown et al. 58 1408 1416 1998 and Matsumoto et al. 106 17898 17903 2009 . Therefore anaerobic metabolism of pyruvate to lactate is increased in tumors. The formation of lactate from pyruvate is also increased in some kinds of tumors even in the presence of adequate levels of oxygen through aerobic glycolysis also known as the Warburg effect Board et al. 265 503 509 1990 and Warburg et al. 14 831 838 1988 . Studies using hyperpolarized 1 C pyruvate showed significantly higher level of 1 C lactate in tumors compared with normal tissue and the formation of lactate was decreased by chemotherapies Golman et al. 66 10855 10860 2006 and Day et al. 13 1382 1387 2007 . These studies suggest that lactate is the main metabolite of pyruvate in tumors and the 1 C lactate to 1 C pyruvate ratio can be a useful marker for estimating tumor progression and response to therapy.

Although anaerobic metabolism of pyruvate is dominant in tumors a part of pyruvate is still aerobically metabolized. Injection of hyperpolarized 1 C pyruvate for MR spectroscopic imaging into tumor bearing animals at the required doses is believed to induce consumption of more cellular oxygen via mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation. Since oxygen concentration in tumors is a critical factor to determine outcomes of cancer therapies Gatenby et al. 14 831 838 1988 and Dewhirst 172 653 665 2009 the temporal profile of tumor oxygen status was investigated using EPR imaging EPRI technique after pyruvate administration.

EPR is a spectroscopic technique similar to nuclear magnetic resonance NMR but detects paramagnetic species which have unpaired electrons. Since the line width of paramagnetic species varies depending on oxygen concentration EPR combined with an appropriate paramagnetic tracer is widely used for estimating tissue oxygen status Goda et al. 55 2249 2252 1995 and Yasui et al. 70 6427 6436 2010 . Recent development of EPRI with triarylmethyl TAM radicals as a tracer make it possible to non invasively visualize tissue oxygen concentration in live animals. The EPRI technique using TAM as a tracer is capable of monitoring tumor oxygen status as a function of tumor growth and its response to therapy Matsumoto et al. 55 1157 1163 2006 and Yasui et al. 70 6427 6436 2010 . In this study changes of partial pressure of oxygen pO in squamous cell carcinoma SCC implanted in mouse leg after 1 C pyruvate administration was examined using EPRI.

All animal experiments were carried out in compliance with the National Research Council 1996 and approved by the National Cancer Institute Animal Care and Use Committee. Female C3H Hen mice were supplied by the Frederick Cancer Research Center Animal Production Frederick Md. . SCCVII solid tumors were formed by injecting 5 10SCC cells subcutaneously into the right hind leg of C3H mice. Body weight measured before the experiments was 21 27 g. In EPRI and MRI measurements mice were anesthetized by isoflurane 4 for induction and 2 for maintaining anesthesia in medical air 750 mL min and positioned prone with their tumor bearing legs placed inside the resonator. During the measurements the breathing rate of the mice was monitored with a pressure transducer SA Instruments Inc. and maintained at 60 10 breaths per minute. Core body temperature was also monitored with a non magnetic rectal temperature probe FISO and maintained at 37 1 C. with a flow of warm air. For administration of TAM and 1 C pyruvate solution a 30 gauge needle was cannulated into the tail vein and extended using polyethylene tubing PE 10 .

Technical details of the EPR scanner operating at 300 MHz data acquisition based on the single point imaging SPI modality image reconstruction and the oxygen mapping procedure were described previously Matsumoto et al. 55 1157 1163 2006 and Matsumoto et al. 118 1965 1973 2008 . Isotonic 1 C pyruvate solution pH 7.4 was prepared by dissolving 30 L of 1 C pyruvic acid in 4.5 mL of alkaline solution containing 100 mg L EDTA. After the mouse was placed in the resonator TAM OX063 GE Healthcare was injected intravenously through the cannula placed in the tail vein. TAM was given as a 1.125 mmol kg bolus followed by 0.04 mmol kg min continuous injection. After acquiring the first EPR data set 1.15 mmol kg bolus 300 L of 96 mM 1 C pyruvate solution was injected intravenously through the cannula. EPRI measurements were carried out 30 minutes and 1 hour after 1 C pyruvate injection. Then the mouse was released. The mouse was anesthetized and canulated again 1.125 mmol kg TAM was injected to the mouse and EPRI measurement was carried out 5 hours after the 1 C pyruvate injection.

EPR signals were collected following the RF excitation pulses 60 ns 80 W 70 flip angle using an analog digital converter 200 Msamples s . EPR measurements were started 3 minutes after TAM injection and it took 9 minutes to obtain a data set for a 3D image. The repetition time TR was 6.0 s. The FIDs free induction decays were collected under a nested looping of the x y z gradients and each time point in the FID underwent phase modulation enabling 3D spatial encoding. In order to get reproducible values of T and to retain a more or less uniform image resolution a set of 3 gradients was used and data for corresponding images were collected in an interleaved fashion Matsumoto et al. 55 1157 1163 2006 . If the power spectrum of the pulse is uniform throughout the k space for all the gradients used the spatial resolution is simply defined by FOV field of view and the number of k samples elements in k space . The spatial resolution was 1.8 mm although the pixel resolution was digitally enhanced.

Anatomical images of the tumor bearing leg were obtained using 7 T MRI after the EPRI measurements. The pOimages from EPRI and the anatomic images from MRI were co registered since EPRI does not give anatomical information. An identical parallel coil resonator 17 mm inner diameter and 25 mm long with Q switch was used for both EPRI and MRI operating at 300 MHz Matsumoto et al. 118 1965 1973 2008 .

MRI scans were conducted using a 7 T scanner controlled with ParaVision 5.0 Bruker BioSpin MRI GmbH . After a quick assessment of the sample position by a fast low angle shot FLASH tripilot sequence T weighted anatomical images were obtained using a fast spin echo sequence RARE with an echo time TE of 13 ms TR of 2.5 s 14 slices RARE factor 8 resolution of 0.109 0.109 mm and acquisition time of 80 s. For convenience of co registration with EPRI all MRI images had the same FOV of 2.8 cm and slice thickness of 2 mm. Co registration of EPRI and MRI images was accomplished using code written in MATLAB Mathworks as described previously Matsumoto et al. 118 1965 1973 2008 .

Mice were fixed in the specially designed jig for X irradiation by which mice were restricted from moving without anesthesia. X irradiation 12 Gy was delivered to tumor bearing leg 6 days after SCC tumor implantation using a XRAD 320 Precision X ray Inc. .

A hypoxia marker pimonidazole was given to tumor bearing mice intravenously 30 minutes before excising tumors. The mice were euthanized and tumor tissues were removed from mice. The tumor tissues were fixed with 4 paraformaldehyde and frozen using ultracold ethanol. The frozen tumors were sectioned to 10 m thick using a cryostat and the sections were thaw mounted on glass slides. After blocking non specific binding sites with Protein Block Serum Free reagent Dako North America Inc. Carpinteria Calif. the slides were covered by rabbit anti pimonidazole antisera Natural Pharmacia International Inc. Burlington Mass. 1 250 overnight at 4 C. The sections were incubated with Alexa Fluor 555 anti rabbit secondary antibody Invitrogen Carlsbad Calif. 1 500 . Then they were mounted on Prolong Gold antifade reagent with DAPI Invitrogen . Fluorescence microscopic observation was performed using an Axiovert 200 inverted fluorescent microscope Carl Zeiss and images of tissues were captured using Image Pro Plus Ver. 4.0 imaging software. The pimonidazole positive area was quantified using Image J software.

All results were expressed as the mean SEM. The differences in means of groups were determined by 2 tailed Student s t test. The minimum level of significance was set at P

To demonstrate changes in tumor pOin response to the intravenous administration of a systemic bolus dose of pyruvate 1.15 mmol kg body weight 300 L of 96 mM EPRI experiments on a group of mice implanted with SCC tumors were carried out after MRI experiments of hyperpolarized 1 C pyruvate namely 1 2 hours after hyperpolarized 1 C pyruvate injection and compared with a group of mice with tumors which did not receive pyruvate injection control group . and show the center slices of Tweighted anatomic images from MRI and the corresponding pOmaps from EPRI in a SCC tumor leg of a control mouse and a mouse after hyperpolarized 1 C pyruvate MRI experiments. The results show that the median pOvalue in the control tumor group was 11.7 0.7 mmHg whereas after 1 C pyruvate injection the pOvalue decreased to 9.2 1.1 mmHg . The tumors were more hypoxic after hyperpolarized 1 C pyruvate MRI experiments compared with the control tumors. From the pOimages of the tumor the hypoxic fraction pixels with pO

Pyruvate is mainly metabolized to lactate alanine and acetyl CoA COin tumors. Large MR signal attributed to 1 C lactate was detected in the SCC tumors immediately after hyperpolarized 1 C pyruvate injection but 1 C alanine and C bicarbonate which in equilibrium with CO were at negligible levels. These results suggest that anaerobic lactate formation catalyzed by LDH is a main pathway of pyruvate metabolism in the SCC tumor. However decreased tumor pOlevel after hyperpolarized 1 C pyruvate MRI experiments as shown in indicates that a significant fraction of tumor oxygen is consumed by exogenously injected 1 C pyruvate probably due to increase of O dependent metabolism of pyruvate. To elucidate changes in the oxygen status of the SCC tumor as a function of time following pyruvate administration sequential pOimaging experiments were carried out at different times after pyruvate administration. The pyruvate solution was not hyperpolarized but labeled compound was used in this experiment. shows three adjacent slices of anatomic and pOimages in a SCC tumor leg measured 9 days after tumor implantation. The pOimaging experiments were carried out before 30 minutes 1 hour and 5 hours after 1 C pyruvate injection. In the pOmaps a significant decrease in pOwas observed in the tumor 30 minutes after 1 C pyruvate injection. The frequency histogram of pOin the tumor region 30 minutes after pyruvate injection displayed a leftward shift compared with the histogram before pyruvate injection . The pOin the tumor was lower even 1 hour after injection but recovered to the pre injection level 5 hours after injection . Median tumor pOvalue in the SCC tumors was 11.8 1.3 mmHg before pyruvate injection which decreased to 5.8 0.6 mmHg 30 minutes after injection . It gradually recovered to 7.7 0.6 mmHg 1 hour after and 11.6 1.2 mmHg 5 hours after pyruvate injection. There was no significant difference in tumor pObetween before and 5 hours after pyruvate injection. Hypoxic fraction in the tumors showed a similar tendency as the median pO . Percentage of hypoxic region in the tumors was significantly larger 30 minutes and 1 hour after pyruvate injection 68.5 3.0 and 63.8 2.6 respectively than that before the injection 39.7 9.8 and recovered to pre injection level 5 hours after the injection 43.9 5.7 . Such trends of decrease in tumor oxygenation were observed even when the dose of pyruvate was half. The tumor pOdecreased by 32 30 minutes after the half dose of 1 C pyruvate 0.58 mmol kg b. w. injection.

To independently confirm the changes in tumor pOvalues in response to pyruvate administration immunohistochemical assessment of tumor pOusing the hypoxia specific agent pimonidazole was carried out. The results showed increases in hypoxic fraction following pyruvate administration . Pimonidazole positive area in tumors 1 hour after 1 C pyruvate injection was significantly larger 29.5 2.9 than control mice 21.1 1.4 which did not receive 1 C pyruvate injection . In agreement with pOimaging results using EPRI there was no difference in pimonidazole positive area between the tumors 5 hours after 1 C pyruvate injection 18.7 1.8 and the control tumors. The results of the EPRI and the immunohistochemical study indicate that tumor pOis decreased by pyruvate administration but the effect was transient.

Hypoxia is a critical factor that determines tumor resistance to radiotherapy and some kinds of chemotherapy. Although the pyruvate induced hypoxia is transient the decrease in oxygen concentration may limit the efficacy of cancer therapy if the cancer treatments are provided immediately after MRI with hyperpolarized 1 C pyruvate. To elucidate the effect of exogenously injected pyruvate on radiotherapy tumor growth was monitored after X irradiation with and without 1 C pyruvate injection . X irradiation 12 Gy without pyruvate administration suppressed the tumor growth for 6 7 days compared with non treated control group which received neither X irradiation nor pyruvate administration. When tumors were exposed to X irradiation 30 minutes after 1 C pyruvate injection a delay in tumor growth of 3 4 days was observed indicating that the tumor growth delay effect of X irradiation was compromised by 1 C pyruvate administration. Interestingly the effect of pyruvate induced decrease in tumor oxygenation on radiotherapy was observed even 5 hours after pyruvate injection whereas tumor pOalmost recovered to the levels before pyruvate injection as shown in . Secondary mechanisms such as activation of hypoxia inducible transcription factor 1 signaling during the pyruvate induced transient hypoxia might partially contribute to the long lasting effect of pyruvate on radiotherapy in addition to the direct effect of oxygen concentration at the time of radiation. Alternatively such secondary mechanisms can also contribute a more sustained tumor response to hypoxia sensitive cytotoxic agents even after tumor tissue hypoxia has returned to baseline levels.

Thus injection of a bolus dose of pyruvate to tumor bearing mice needed for hyperpolarized C imaging experiments can cause transient decrease in tumor pO and this decrease in pOweakens the tumor suppressive effect of X irradiation. It should be noted that the pyruvate induced hypoxia may provide a benefit if combined with hypoxic toxins. The dose of pyruvate used in this study is at the high end of doses commonly reported in the literature of hyperpolarized pyruvate studies. Secondly a clinical dose would likely be about an order of magnitude less than the dose used in this study. Hyperpolarized 1 C pyruvate is a promising tool for metabolically profiling the tumor and also in monitoring tumor progression and treatment response. However when this technique is applied clinically with cancer therapies it is important to take into account the transient microenvironmental change such as tumor oxygenation by pyruvate injection itself that may modulate the efficacy of treatments.

Tumor generation in mice pyruvate injections non invasive EPR imaging and co registration of pOimages from EPRI with anatomic images from MRI were performed as described in Example 1. Human pancreatic solid tumors were formed by injecting cells of a pancreatic cell line subcutaneously into the right hind leg of athymic nude mice. Human pancreatic cell lines used were SU8686 MiaPaca and HS766T.

This example shows the effect of using a pOlowering agent that transiently decreases the partial pressure of oxygen to increase the activity of a hypoxia sensitive agent and delay tumor growth.

Mouse legs bearing tumors were prepared by subcutaneously injecting 5 10SCCVII mouse squamous cell carcinoma cells or 1 10HT29 human colon cancer cells to the hind leg of C3H or athymic nude mice respectively. When tumor size became 400 500 mm treatments were initiated. Mice were treated daily for 3 days with hypoxia activated prodrug TH 302 100 mg kg day i.p. alone pyruvate 1.15 mmol kg day i.v. alone or TH 302 injection 30 min. after pyruvate injection. Treatments were started on day 7 SCCVII or day 8 HT29 . In addition some mice with SCCVII tumors did not receive TH 302 until day 9 . Tumor growth volume size in mm was measured daily by caliper.

The data demonstrate that although pyruvate alone and TH 302 alone had a minor or small effect on SCCVII tumor growth when administered starting 7 days post tumor implantation the administration of pyruvate 30 minutes prior to TH 302 combination therapy significantly delayed SCCVII tumor growth Table 1 . Even when the start of TH 302 treatment was delayed until day 9 to allow the tumor to become more hypoxic the delay in tumor growth was significantly greater as a result of the combination therapy compared to TH 302 alone.

The data also demonstrate that the combination therapy induced a delay in HT29 tumor growth compared to TH 302 alone and Table 1 .

This example shows that administration of pyruvate transiently induces hypoxia by increasing oxygen consumption via an increase in mitochondrial aerobic respiration.

SCCVII cells were cultured in vitro in RPMI medium containing 10 fetal calf serum. shows that oxygen consumption rate OCR increased in the SCCVII cells following incubation with various concentrations of pyruvate 0.2 mM 0.5 mM and 2 mM for 21 minutes data represent the percent change of OCR from baseline measurements . shows the OCR in SCCVII cells treated with Rotenone Antimycin A oxidative phosphorylation complex 1 and complex 3 inhibitors respectively following 2 mM pyruvate treatment. shows the OCR in SCCVII cells treated with Rotenone Antimycin A prior to 2 mM pyruvate treatment. An increase in OCR when pyruvate is administered prior to treatment of the cells with Rotenone Antimycin A demonstrates that the increase is dependent upon mitochondrial oxygen consumption. Thus this example shows that pyruvate increases oxygen consumption by increasing mitochondrial aerobic respiration.

This example shows methods of using a pOlowering agent that decreases the partial pressure of oxygen to increase the activity of a hypoxia sensitive agent.

Tumor cells are maintained in vivo and in vitro. Tumor cell monolayers are harvested with 0.05 trypsin. From this suspension cells are resuspended in medium and are inoculated intradermally in the back of each mouse at a site approximately 2 cm above the tail. Experiments are begun two weeks later when the mean tumor volume is approximately 200 mm.

For animal studies a hypoxia sensitive agent such as Tirapazamine SR 4233 is dissolved in normal saline at a concentration of 1 mg ml and injected intraperitoneally i.p. on a mmol kg basis. An isotonic solution of a pOlowering agent for example pyruvate or succinate pH 7.4 is prepared by dissolving the pOlowering agent in an alkaline solution containing EDTA.

For animal studies tumor cell survival is evaluated according to an in vivo in vitro excision assay. Toward this end mice are sacrificed after treatment of the hypoxia sensitive agent either in the presence or absence of a pOlowering agent. Tumors are excised minced and dissociated with an enzyme cocktail and cells are plated for a clonogenic assay. Resultant tumor cell colonies are stained with crystal violet and counted after two weeks incubation at 37 C. in a 5 COhumidified atmosphere. Relative clonogenic cells per tumor is calculated as the product of plating efficiency and tumor cell yield for treated tumors relative to that for control untreated tumors assayed in parallel.

For the studies on cells in vitro tumor cells are seeded into 60 mm glass petri dishes in medium supplemented with fetal bovine serum. The experiments are performed 4 to 5 days later. The growth medium is then replaced with 2 ml of medium without serum containing a hypoxia sensitive agent. In each experiment groups are included in which treatment with a pOlowering agent and or a hypoxia sensitive agent are performed both simultaneously and with an interval between the treatments. Exposure to the pOlowering agent and or the hypoxia sensitive agent is for one hour under hypoxic conditions. To achieve hypoxia the dishes are loaded into gassing chambers and connected to a gassing manifold comprising a vacuum outlet line and inlet lines for air or nitrogen 5 CO . After gassing the chambers are sealed and incubated for one hour at 37 C. The oxygen level in the medium is measured using a Clarke electrode to show that hypoxia is achieved rapidly. Immediately after the treatment with the pOlowering agent and or hypoxia sensitive agent the cells are trypsinized counted and replated and incubated for 14 days at 37 C. in a 5 COhumidified atmosphere after which the colonies are stained with crystal violet and counted.

The results show that both in vivo and in vitro there is a reduction in the number of colonies in the sample that was exposed to both the pOlowering agent and the hypoxia activated agent. Thus a pOlowering agent such as pyruvate or succinate increases the cytotoxicity activity of a hypoxia sensitive agent both in vivo and in vitro.

This example describes methods that can be used to treat a subject having a tumor. However one skilled in the art will appreciate based on the teachings herein that methods that deviate from these specific methods can also be used to successfully treat a subject having a tumor.

In an example a subject who has been diagnosed with a tumor is identified. Following subject selection a therapeutically effective amount of a hypoxia sensitive agent and a therapeutically effective amount of an oxygen partial pressure pO lowering agent are administered to the subject. In one specific non limiting example a therapeutically effective amount of pyruvate an amount sufficient to induce hypoxia in a tumor or increase the hypoxic fraction of a tumor is administered to the subject prior to the administration of a therapeutically effective amount of a hypoxia sensitive agent. The amount of the pOlowering agent and the hypoxia sensitive agent administered to prevent reduce inhibit and or treat the tumor depends on the subject being treated the severity of the disorder and the manner of administration of the therapeutic composition. Ideally a therapeutically effective amount of a hypoxia sensitive agent is the amount sufficient to prevent reduce and or inhibit and or treat the condition e.g. a tumor in a subject without causing a substantial cytotoxic effect in the subject.

A reduction in the clinical symptoms associated with the tumor for example decreased tumor volume or size indicates the effectiveness of the treatment.

In view of the many possible embodiments to which the principles of our invention may be applied it should be recognized that illustrated embodiments are only examples of the invention and should not be considered a limitation on the scope of the invention. Rather the scope of the invention is defined by the following claims. We therefore claim as our invention all that comes within the scope and spirit of these claims.

