---

title: Method and device for secure, high-density tritium bonded with carbon
abstract: A method and device for producing secure, high-density tritium bonded with carbon. A substrate comprising carbon is provided. A precursor is intercalated between carbon in the substrate. The precursor intercalated in the substrate is irradiated until at least a portion of the precursor, preferably a majority of the precursor, is transmutated into tritium and bonds with carbon of the substrate forming bonded tritium. The resulting bonded tritium, tritium bonded with carbon, produces electrons via beta decay. The substrate is preferably a substrate from the list of substrates consisting of highly-ordered pyrolytic graphite, carbon fibers, carbon nanotunes, buckministerfullerenes, and combinations thereof. The precursor is preferably boron-10, more preferably lithium-6. Preferably, thermal neutrons are used to irradiate the precursor. The resulting bonded tritium is preferably used to generate electricity either directly or indirectly.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09305674&OS=09305674&RS=09305674
owner: U.S. Department of Energy
number: 09305674
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120322
---
The United States Government has rights in this invention pursuant to Contract No. DE AC07 05ID14517 between the U.S. Department of Energy DOE and the Battelle Energy Alliance BEA .

The present invention relates to a method and device for secure high density tritium bonded with carbon preferably by irradiating an intercalated precursor into tritium bonded with carbon in a substrate.

There has been and continues to be a great interest in new and improved energy sources. One interest is in reliable long term energy. For example medical devices long range sensors e.g. down hole well sensors extreme environment sensors e.g. deep ocean vacuum of space high altitude etc. and long term storage e.g. nuclear waste monitoring greatly depend on long term reliable energy sources. Radioactive sources such as tritium have been used as an energy source for many years. Over 50 years ago early pacemakers used radioactive sources for long term use. However these devices were discontinued in favor of batteries after significant advancements in battery technology. Recent advancements in semiconductor technologies have made energy conversion from low energy radioactive sources such as tritium a viable solution for high energy electronics as well as increased efficiencies. Tritium still remains a significant health concern unless properly secured. However current efforts to safely secure tritium result in a low density tritium minimizing tritium s potential as a significant energy source. For example in an existing solution a tritium gas is absorbed into a porous silicon carbide substrate which is limited by the surface area of the substrate resulting in a low density bulky substrate. As the resulting tritium is secured in a low density form it is virtually unusable for use in energy production due to cost efficiencies and the size of energy source. Therefore there is a need for a device and method for the secure high density storage of tritium.

A method and device for producing secure high density tritium bonded with carbon. A substrate comprising carbon is provided. A precursor is intercalated between carbon in the substrate. The precursor intercalated in the substrate is irradiated until at least a portion of the precursor preferably a majority of the precursor is transmutated into tritium and bonds with carbon of the substrate forming bonded tritium tritium bonded with carbon. The resulting bonded tritium produces electrons via beta decay. The substrate is preferably a substrate from the list of substrates consisting of highly ordered pyrolytic graphite carbon fibers carbon nanotunes buckministerfullerenes and combinations thereof. The precursor is preferably boron 10 more preferably lithium 6. Preferably thermal neutrons are used to irradiate the precursor. Preferably the resulting bonded tritium is used in a long term power source preferably between 10 and 20 years capable of operating under extreme environments e.g. deep ocean vacuum of space high altitude etc. and under extreme temperatures preferably up to 300 F. .

A method and device for producing secure high density tritium bonded with carbon. A substrate comprising carbon is provided. A precursor is intercalated between carbon in the substrate. Preferably the precursor forms a covalent bond with carbon in the substrate. The precursor intercalated in the substrate is irradiated until at least a portion of the precursor preferably a majority of the precursor is transmutated into tritium and bonds with carbon of the substrate forming bonded tritium tritium bonded with carbon. Preferably tritium forms a covalent bond with carbon in the substrate. The resulting bonded tritium produces electrons via beta decay. The substrate is preferably a substrate from the list of substrates consisting of highly ordered pyrolytic graphite carbon fibers carbon nanotunes buckministerfullerenes and combinations thereof. The precursor is preferably boron 10 more preferably lithium 6. Preferably thermal neutrons are used to irradiate the precursor.

Preferred embodiments also include cleaving peeling milling or machining micron thin sheets of the bonded tritium. The carbon structure of the resulting bonded tritium are ideal and are preferably eventually manufactured into extremely thin wafers or powders thus minimizing internal absorption or loss of electrons emitted and maximize the amount of captured electrons.

Preferably the resulting bonded tritium is used in long term power source preferably between 10 and 20 years capable of operating under extreme environments e.g. deep ocean vacuum of space high altitude etc. and under extreme temperatures up to 300 F. . In one embodiment the bonded tritium is used to generate electricity which is used to trickle charge a primary battery. In one embodiment the resulting bonded tritium is positioned in electron communication with a p n junction whereby the electrons generated from beta decay are captured by the p n junction and generate electricity for power generation. In another embodiment a phosphor screen receives electrons generated from beta decay from the resulting bonded tritium and generates photons which are subsequently received by a photocell for power generation. The power density of the tritiated substrate is preferably at least 1 mW cc. The resulting product is a secure high density tritium source which produces electrons with inert helium and graphite two very safe bi products. Other uses for a secure high density tritium source include but are not limited to medical devices research equipment detectors etc. Preferably any resulting products incorporated the bonded tritium source comprises a means for venting capturing or containing the helium bi product.

The substrate comprises carbon. Preferably the substrate is rigid and comprises ample space for loading of the precursor. Preferably the substrate has a thickness sufficient to contain the resulting nuclear reaction during irradiation depending on various factors for example substrate material neutron energy etc. The substrate is positioned to provide at least the majority of neutrons passing through the thickness of the substrate. Some matrix damage to the substrate during irradiation is expected for example from the recoil event and ionization pathway but these defects or vacancies become additional sites for tritium to bond with carbon within the substrate.

In one embodiment the substrate is preferably a large size for ease of handling during production for example 10 10 1 mm. Preferably the substrate is carbon in a graphite form due to graphite s resistance to damage from neutron flux. More preferably the substrate is highly ordered pyrolytic graphite HOPG carbon fibers carbon nanotunes buckministerfullerenes or combinations thereof.

In a preferred embodiment the substrate is highly ordered pyrolytic graphite HOPG and atoms of the precursor are located in the interplanar space between the graphene layers and individually spaced under the graphene rings of the substrate. HOPG is graphite with an angular spread between the graphite sheets of less than 1 degree. HOPG is preferred as the carbon in the HOPG has a low probability of undesired reaction within a thermal neutron flux.

The precursor is any one or more elements that when irradiated form tritium. Preferably the precursor is lithium boron and combinations thereof. More preferably the precursor is lithium 6 boron 10 and combinations thereof. Preferably the precursor forms a covalent bond with carbon in the substrate. Preferably the precursor is a single element or composition to provide uniformity in the final bonded tritium and to allow for an optimized irradiation for just the single element or composition. Preferably the precursor is lithium 6 and bonds with carbon in the substrate forming at least a portion of preferably at least a majority of LiC due to its relative ease in transmutation to tritium. Preferably the forming of LiCwithin the substrate is maximized due to LiCfavorable conversion to tritium. A lithium 6 precursor bonded preferably covalently bonded with carbon in the substrate may form various other stoicheiometries with any number of lithiums for example forming LiC depending on various factors such as the length of exposure of the substrate to Li temperature during exposure etc.

The precursor is intercalated with carbon in the substrate whereby the precursor is positioned between at least two carbon atoms of the substrate. In a preferred embodiment the substrate is highly ordered pyrolytic graphite HOPG and the precursor is intercalated with carbon in the substrate whereby the atoms of the precursor are located in the interplanar space between the graphene layers and individually spaced under the graphene rings of the substrate. The precursor may be intercalated using various methods for example the methods described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 604 276 and 4 388 227 hereby fully incorporated by reference. In a preferred embodiment the substrate is completely immersed in molten precursor preferably molten Li 6 metal. Preferably the substrate is completely immersed in the molten precursor for less than 8 hours preferably under a dry argon atmosphere e.g. glove box . This embodiment is preferred as it is cleaner than the other methods for example electrochemical intercalation.

Preferably the precursor is irradiated with thermal neutrons. Preferably the precursor is irradiated for a time optimized to transmutate at least a portion preferably a majority of the precursor to tritium. Preferably the precursor is exposed to thermal neutrons for one to five months depending on various factors for example neutron flux substrate material substrate thickness etc.

The neutron source generates neutrons preferably thermal neutrons. In a preferred embodiment the neutron source is a nuclear reactor preferably a thermal reactor. In one embodiment the neutron source is a compact neutron source for example as described in Ser. No. 12 303 851 hereby fully incorporated by reference. Preferably the neutron source is optimized for a high thermal neutron flux. It is estimated that in a thermal reactor about 10 of a precursor made of Li 6 will be converted in 16 days about 30 of a precursor made of Li 6 will be converted in 55 days and about 50 of a precursor made of Li 6 will be converted in 107 days.

In a preferred embodiment the substrate is HOPG and is intercalated with a precursor made of Li 6 and subsequently irradiated with neutrons preferably thermal neutrons from the neutron source . As the recoil energy of the precursor and the neutrons will send the resulting tritium nucleus less than 0.1 mm through the matrix of the substrate the substrate along the path of the majority of neutrons is preferably at least 0.1 mm. Therefore the step of irradiating the precursor comprises producing neutrons whereby the majority of the produced neutrons travel along the thickness preferably at least 0.1 mm of the substrate . This embodiment is preferred as the transmutation of the precursor to tritium will leave behind an unbound electron which can in effect recombine with then bond tritium to carbon within the matrix of the substrate . Furthermore the precursor may be loaded uniformly into the substrate at relatively high levels. Some matrix damage to the substrate is expected from the recoil event and ionization pathway but those defects or vacancies become additional sites for tritium to bond. It should be noted the when the precursor is loaded into the substrate the resulting lithiated substrate is oxygen and water sensitive until it is sufficiently tritiated into the more stable form as shown in

The neutron source generates neutrons preferably thermal neutrons. In a preferred embodiment the neutron source is a nuclear reactor preferably a thermal reactor. In one embodiment the neutron source is a compact neutron source for example as described in Ser. No. 12 303 851 hereby fully incorporated by reference.

The first electrode is electrically connected to the p type semiconductor and the first wire . The second electrode is electrically connected to the n type semiconductor and the second wire . As electrons are generated via beta decay from the bonded tritium the electrons are captured by holes in the p type semiconductor thereby generating electricity across the first electrode and second electrode . The first wire and the second wire are electrically connected to an electrical load thereby providing electricity to the electrical load . In the alternative any one or more electrical conductors may connect the n type semiconductor and the p type semiconductor to the electrical load . The electrical load is any electrical device capable of consuming or storing electricity for example but not limited to rechargeable batteries capacitors lights motors computers etc.

Preferably the p type semiconductor is made of doped GaP AlGaAs or silicon. Preferably the n type semiconductor is made of doped GaP AlGaAs or silicon.

The first electrode is electrically connected to the electrical load via a first wire . The second electrode is electrically connected to the electrical load via a second wire . In the alternative any one or more electrical conductors may connect the photocell to the electrical load . The electrical load is any electrical device capable of consuming or storing electricity for example but not limited to rechargeable batteries capacitors lights motors computers etc.

Phosphor screen is any material which emits photons in response to electrons produced by beta decay from the bonded tritium . Preferably the phosphor screen is a thin film phosphors more preferably ZnS Mn or gallate films.

The photocell is any device comprising photovoltaic material capable of converting the photons produced by the phosphor screen into electricity. Preferably as photons are absorbed by the photocell the photons of light excite electrons into a higher state of energy allowing them to act as charge carriers thereby providing an electric current. Preferably the photocell comprises a photosensitive cathode and an anode. The cathode of the photocell emits electrons when exposed to photons produced by the phosphor screen . The anode of the photocell collect electrons emitted by the cathode of the photocell thereby generating electricity across the first electrode and the second electrode . Preferably the photocell comprises a photovoltaic material preferably thin film solar cells e.g. CdTe CIGS amorphous Si microcrystalline Si .

It is to be understood that the above described arrangements are only illustrative of the application of the principles of the present invention. Numerous modifications and alternative arrangements may be devised by those skilled in the art without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention and the appended claims are intended to cover such modifications and arrangements.

All publications and patent documents cited in this application are incorporated by reference in their entirety for all purposes to the same extent as if each individual publication or patent document were so individually denoted.

Any element in a claim that does not explicitly state means for performing a specified function or step for performing a specific function is not to be interpreted as a means or step clause as specified in 35 U.S.C. 112 6. In particular the use of step of in the claims herein is not intended to invoke the provisions of 35 U.S.C. 112 6.

