---

title: Method of intrinsic marking
abstract: A method of pulsed laser intrinsic marking can provide a unique identifier to detect tampering or counterfeiting.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08685599&OS=08685599&RS=08685599
owner: Sandia Corporation
number: 08685599
owner_city: Albuquerque
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120223
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 446 270 filed Feb. 24 2011 which is incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was made with Government support under contract no. DE AC04 94AL85000 awarded by the U.S. Department of Energy to Sandia Corporation. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates to laser based markings and in particular to a method of pulsed laser intrinsic marking that can provide a unique identifier to indicate tampering or counterfeiting.

It is well established that laser irradiation can color the exposed surfaces of various materials by forming an oxide or nitride layer referred to herein as a thin film or color layer or color pattern . See M. Wautelet 50 131 1990 . Fundamentally surface colorization of metals and alloys is a thermochemical growth process facilitated by the heat of absorbed laser light. Localized heating provided by a focused laser beam can lead to the growth of dielectric phases with the thickness of these thin films related to the dwell time of the laser and the absorption and diffusion of reactive gas e.g. O N other . The color that forms is intimately related to the layer thickness and its refractive index. If illuminated by white light the color can be the convolution of reflected wavelengths and those that interfere constructively wavelengths that interfere destructively will be absent.

The majority of previous experimental and theoretical work on laser colorization involves continuous wave CW laser exposure. The extensive work by Wautelet and other groups demonstrates the ability to synthesize oxide layers on more than 20 simple metal surfaces. See M. Wautelet 50 131 1990 M. Wautelet and R. Andrew 55 261 1987 M. Wautelet and L. Baufay 100 L9 1983 M. Wautelet et al. 47 313 1988 M. H. Wong et al. 61 3391 2007 and I. Ursu et al. 34 1121 1987 . Chemical kinetic models have been developed to explain the rates of color layer growth during CW irradiation of elemental metals and the dynamical effects of a changing optical absorption coefficient as thickness increases. Studies have also correlated optical properties often determined by ellipsometry with thickness and structure. See A. P rez del Pino et al. . 187 106 2004 and A. P rez del Pino et al. Appl. Phys. A 78 765 2004 .

Recently several groups have investigated how pulsed laser light interacts with metal surfaces. See E. Gy rgy et al. 78 765 2004 M. H. Wong et al. 61 3391 2007 L. Lavisse et al. 13 127 2003 B. S. Yilbas et al. 136 12 2003 E. Gy rgy et al. . 187 245 2004 E. Gy rgy et al. 5581 323 2003 E. Gy rgy et al. 78 765 2004 and A. P rez del Pino et al. 415 201 2002 . Generally this process involves sequential irradiation of a metal surface or evolving color layer with a train of light pulses. Models and experiments have focused on predicting the thickness of color layers by accounting for the repetitive rise in temperature the cooling rates after the arrival of a pulse and the gas diffusion coefficient into an irradiated target material. See B. S. Yilbas et al. 136 12 2003 .

Surface roughness is an additional feature that can develop during laser irradiation. A scanned laser process can produce a periodic surface roughness due to the point to point variations in laser fluence incident on a surface. The variation in fluence across a surface can lead to surface roughening because material removal by ablation evaporation or sublimation occurs at sites where fluence is large compared with neighboring low fluence areas. For CW laser and pulsed laser processes a rough final surface can arise from the spacing hatch between subsequent lines commanded by the operator. By choosing a hatch that is significantly less than the width of the laser beam one generally establishes a uniform fluence across an area. By choosing a hatch that is significantly larger than the width of the laser beam one establishes a non uniform fluence. For pulsed laser irradiation the arrival of individual pulses can further lead to roughening. Depending on the relative rates of pulse arrival and scan velocity a variety of surface morphologies can develop.

The present invention is directed to a method of intrinsic marking comprising irradiating the surface of a substrate with at least one laser pulse to provide a color pattern and or laser induced periodic surface structure on the substrate through reaction with a background gas. The substrate can be compositionally inhomogeneous or it can be compositionally homogeneous. For example a compositionally inhomogeneous substrate can comprise a metal ceramic composite a metal polymer substrate or a dual phase steel. The substrate can also comprise joined dissimilar materials that are welded brazed or soldered. For laser coloring and laser induced roughening the duration of the at least one laser pulse can be less than 200 nanoseconds. One of a variety of wavelengths can be chosen to interact with a specific substrate material. The at least one laser pulse can comprise a plurality of repeated laser pulses with a repetition rate of less than 500 kHz.

Intrinsic microscopic features can form due to the interaction of laser light with the compositional structural or topographical inhomogenieties present on an initial or evolving substrate surface. For example isolated microscopic features comprising a different color with respect to its immediate surroundings can be formed on the surface. In another embodiment surface roughening can occur at specific sites. This can occur within a macroscale laser defined color pattern. Isolated features having a unique signature in the form of a periodic roughness can develop in areas that are treated with a uniform laser fluence. Formation of intrinsic microscopic features can be of great use as unique identifiers because of their random size location and spacing.

The present invention provides versatile laser marking techniques. Owing to the expected complexity of features spanning a range of length scales and their formation at preferred surface sites markings made by pulsed lasers can be considered virtually impossible to replicate and counterfeit.

Short and ultra short laser pulses can interact with the surfaces of various materials to create complex fingerprints for potential use as passive indicators of tamper and therefore possible interference with equipment. In particular short and ultra short pulsed lasers can be used to create unique markings in the form of color layers and surfaces having periodic surface structures or both. These patterns or markings can be documented and archived for comparison at a future date.

When laser light is applied to a material surface that has a compositional structural or topographical inhomogenieity a complex arrangement of microscopic features can result. Isolated or connected microscopic features can comprise an entire laser defined color pattern or a subset of this. For added assurance as a passive tamper indicator periodic micro or nanometer scale surface topography or other surface features can develop. In particular laser induced periodic surface structures can form at select sites on a surface. This can occur for the same laser parameters used to define color features or it may require a second laser process step. If the final appearance of a marking is influenced by the size or randomness of structure initially present on a surface whether on a vessel weld etc. the laser created patterns can be virtually impossible to replicate or duplicate. Intrinsic microscopic features can be contained within a larger pattern such as a color marking.

A pattern of colors or a pattern of a single color can be commanded using a scanned laser approach. This can involve the control of scan speed and average power to affix fluence. By varying the fluence across the surface an array of different color patterns can be formed on a substrate according to a pre determined lookup table once developed or at random if pre determined values are not assigned. For example pulse durations of 200 nanosecond ns or less can be used and the pulse repetition rate can be varied to generate different color layers on substrates when using a scanned laser approach. For example an Er doped glass fiber laser with pulse durations between 9 and 200 ns and a variable repetition rate from 5 500 kHz can be utilized although other pulsed lasers can also be used. Alternatively the fluence variations required to define a color pattern can be generated using a flood exposure of intense laser light. This flood exposure is put through an attenuation mask that varies the fluence on different areas of a surface.

Complex color layer patterns include single color markings or those with more than one color. The pattern can include unmarked areas for contrast. Black white patterns are possible. The patterns can further comprise embedded micro or nano features that have a color different than their immediate surroundings. Color markings comprise encrypted tags. This includes two dimensional patterns or line barcodes. The encrypted tags can be constructed with a single color or the color can be varied within a tag for the purpose of including additional information.

The substrate can be compositionally homogeneous and comprise two or more elements. For example shows an array of patterns to produced by pulsed laser irradiation in plan view wherein isolated microscopic features with locally different colors form within a larger color pattern. Alternatively the substrate can be compositionally inhomogeneous. For example the compositionally inhomogeneous substrate can comprise a metal ceramic composite or a metal polymer composite. Other substrates include but are not limited to titanium alloys aluminum alloys nickel cobalt ferrous alloys solder braze alloys and silicon. shows an array of patterns wherein each pattern has one or more intrinsic embedded microscopic features within a color pattern that have a color different than their immediate surroundings. A color pattern can be created across an interface of joined materials having similar or identical composition or can be created across an interface of joined dissimilar materials A and B as shown in . shows an encrypted two dimensional pattern of colors on the surface.

The optical properties of color layers can be probed during a laser marking process using one of a variety of well established methods including reflectance measurements spectroscopic reflectance measurements interference methods or ellipsometry. This permits endpointing of color features or whole patterns. The information provided by these optical techniques can be used to feedback control the pattern definition and assure an accurate marking.

To further increase the effectiveness of laser defined features as a tamper indication technology micro or nano scale topography can be created at surfaces or interfaces.

Where laser pulses of nanosecond and greater pulse duration can generate colors through processes akin to thermal oxidation these same laser processes can lead to surface roughening. Surface roughness whether periodic or aperiodic can be a unique fingerprint.

Alternatively ultrashort pulses such as femtosecond duration pulses can produce periodic or aperiodic surface roughness. This can arise due to ablation re attachment of ablation debris or both. Selective coupling to preferred topographical features protrusions or phases exposed at a surface can generate roughness even when utilizing a uniform fluence.

The duration of the laser pulse can be less than 200 nanoseconds. Preferably the duration of the laser pulse is less than 1 picosecond. The periodic surface roughness can be generated using the same laser used for creating color features. Alternatively the periodic surface roughness is generated using a different laser than that used for creating color features.

Surface colorization and surface roughness can be combined into a single pattern. This is motivated by the desire for complex features that are difficult to replicate and duplicate. With pulse durations of order nanoseconds where both roughening and colorization are known to occur independently color and surface roughness can form simultaneously. This can be advantageous as a marking technique because it is a single step process and can involve a single laser.

The periodic surface roughness can be generated within a color feature or pattern. As shown in periodic surface roughness can be generated at discrete microscopic sites within a color pattern that comprise a subset of a color feature or pattern. The periodicity of the roughness can be approximately equal to or less than the wavelength of the laser light. As shown in the periodicity of the roughness can be approximately equal to the hatch or spacing between scanned laser lines used to create a feature or color pattern. The orientation of the hatch depends on the scan direction.

The definition of a color layer using an assist gas generally involves the reaction of metal within a portion of the substrate. Metal can diffuse into the color layer and form a metal oxide for example. As a result one or more species in the original substrate can be denuded to a significant depth. As a result the magnetic structure of a solid can be impacted. The change in near interface magnetic structure can be a consequence of forming laser color oxides and can require no additional treatment. For example work with steels shows that chromium and potentially other species such as manganese diffuse into a laser defined color layer during processing. This can result in an iron rich structure just below the oxide to several microns depth. As a result the magnetic domain structure can be modified.

The resultant changed magnetic structure represents a unique signature that can be used as a fingerprint. This can be probed using several methods such as magnetic force microscopy. The layout of magnetic structure can be documented and archived for future comparison.

The superposition and registry of sub surface magnetic domain structure with color patterns and surface roughness can be a unique fingerprint for use in offsetting activities such as counterfeiting.

The present invention has been described as a method of intrinsic marking. It will be understood that the above description is merely illustrative of the applications of the principles of the present invention the scope of which is to be determined by the claims viewed in light of the specification. Other variants and modifications of the invention will be apparent to those of skill in the art.

