---

title: Information presentation control device and information presentation control method
abstract: An information presentation control device includes: an acquisition unit which acquires information items; an information total amount calculation unit which calculates a total amount of the information items; a sender importance level determining unit which determines sender importance levels each of which indicates how important a different one of senders is; an information total amount determining unit which determines whether or not the total amount of the information items is greater than a predetermined value; a filtering unit which performs, when it is determined that the total amount of the information items is greater than the predetermined value, at least one process on an information item having a lower sender importance level, among the information items, so that an amount of the information item is reduced more; and an output unit which outputs the information items after the filtering unit performs the process.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09059882&OS=09059882&RS=09059882
owner: PANASONIC INTELLECTUAL MANAGEMENT CO., LTD.
number: 09059882
owner_city: Osaka
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20121210
---
This is a continuation application of PCT International Application No. PCT JP2012 001005 filed on Feb. 15 2012 designating the United States of America which is based on and claims priority of Japanese Patent Application No. 2011 183276 filed on Aug. 25 2011. The entire disclosures of the above identified applications including the specifications drawings and claims are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

One or more exemplary embodiments disclosed herein relate generally to an information presentation control device and an information presentation control method.

Services on the Internet for sharing opinions situations or the like hereafter referred to as comment distribution services have so far been available. The users of the services post on Internet sites their own opinions situations or the like as comments short text information consisting of approximately 200 characters or less and browse comments posted by other users.

Regarding display of a log indicating an operation state of a computer system Patent Literature PTL 1 discloses a technique of adjusting a display level of the log according to the number of unprocessed logs or CPU utilization.

Patent Literature PTL 2 discloses a method of determining a degree of urgency in message distribution using a learning effect for a user.

Patent Literature PTL 3 discloses a method of rearranging display order of history records of visits to a home page using a closeness level between a user and each visitor.

A problem to be solved is to preferentially display even when many comments are present a comment of a sender that a user desires among the comments.

The present disclosure has been conceived to solve the problem and one non limiting and exemplary embodiment provides an information presentation control device or the like that preferentially displays among many comments a comment of a sender that a user desires to browse.

In one general aspect the techniques disclosed here feature an information presentation control device including an acquisition unit configured to acquire a plurality of information items sent by a plurality of senders an information total amount calculation unit configured to calculate a total amount of the information items acquired by the acquisition unit a sender importance level determining unit configured to determine sender importance levels each of which indicates how important a different one of the senders is and is defined based on a closeness level indicating how socially close the one sender and a user of the information presentation control device are or a reliability level indicating how socially reliable the one sender is an information total amount determining unit configured to determine whether or not the total amount of the information items calculated by the information total amount calculation unit is greater than a predetermined value a filtering unit configured to perform when the information total amount determining unit determines that the total amount of the information items is greater than the predetermined value at least one process on an information item having a lower sender importance level among the information items so that an amount of the information item is reduced more the amount of the information item being the number of characters or symbols constituting the information item and an output unit configured to output the information items after the filtering unit performs the process.

These general and specific aspects may be implemented using a system a method an integrated circuit a computer program or a computer readable recording medium such as a CD ROM or any combination of systems methods integrated circuits computer programs or computer readable recording media.

The information presentation control device according to one or more exemplary embodiments or features disclosed herein provides an advantageous effect of preferentially displaying even when many comments are present a comment of a sender that a user desires among the comments.

Services on the Internet for sharing opinions situations or the like hereafter referred to as comment distribution services have so for been available. The users of the services perform communication information sharing or the like with other users by posting on Internet sites their own opinions situations or the like as comments short sentence information consisting of approximately 200 characters or less and browsing comments posted by the other users.

In contrast a new style of viewing content has gradually become available in which while content such as a TV program is being viewed information about the TV program is transmitted to or received from a service that is different from a TV broadcast using a personal computer a cellular phone or the like. For instance a service that enables many users to post comments for the same content and to view the content together with the posted comments is available as a service for personal computers.

When viewers enjoy content while posting comments a significant number of comments can be posted in a short period of time in the case where for example the content in question is a World Cup game or an Olympic event. In such a case it is demanded that only important comments among the comments be found and techniques for responding to the demand have been disclosed e.g. PTL 1 PTL 2 and PTL 3 .

Regarding display of a log indicating an operation state of a computer system PTL 1 discloses a technique of adjusting a display level of the log according to the number of unprocessed logs or CPU utilization.

PTL 2 discloses a method of determining a degree of urgency in message distribution using a learning effect for a user.

PTL 3 discloses a method of rearranging display order of history records of visits to a home page using a closeness level between a user and each visitor.

However when a significant number of comments are posted in a short period of time a user needs to view the comments in a short period of time resulting in the following problems. In other words when comments whose amounts exceeding an amount recognizable by the user are displayed new comments are displayed one after another before the user understands the comments and the user cannot enjoy viewing content while reading posted comments.

Moreover there is a case where comments sent by the user s friends are included in many comments. In this case the user cannot easily find among the comments the comments sent by the user s friends. When missing comments of the user s friends viewing the same content in a distance environment the user is unable to know the friends impressions about the content which may pose an obstacle to communication with the friends in the future.

In view of the above a problem to be solved is to preferentially display even when many comments are present a comment of a sender that a user desires among the comments. The techniques disclosed by the PTLS cannot solve the problem.

The present disclosure has been conceived to solve the problem and one non limiting and exemplary embodiment provides an information presentation control device or the like that preferentially displays even when many comments are present a comment of a sender that a user desires to browse among the comments.

According to an exemplary embodiment disclosed herein an information presentation control device including an acquisition unit configured to acquire a plurality of information items sent by a plurality of senders an information total amount calculation unit configured to calculate a total amount of the information items acquired by the acquisition unit a sender importance level determining unit configured to determine sender importance levels each of which indicates how important a different one of the senders is and is defined based on a closeness level indicating how socially close the one sender and a user of the information presentation control device are or a reliability level indicating how socially reliable the one sender is an information total amount determining unit configured to determine whether or not the total amount of the information items calculated by the information total amount calculation unit is greater than a predetermined value a filtering unit configured to perform when the information total amount determining unit determines that the total amount of the information items is greater than the predetermined value at least one process on an information item having a lower sender importance level among the information items so that an amount of the information item is reduced more the amount of the information item being the number of characters or symbols constituting the information item and an output unit configured to output the information items after the filtering unit performs the process.

With this it is possible to regulate a total data amount of comments to be outputted by outputting when many comments are present a comment an information item of a sender that is unchanged since it was sent and a user desires to browse among the comments as well as by reducing an information amount of each of comments of other senders and outputting the comments. Thus the user can easily find the comment of the sender that the user desires to browse among the comments and simultaneously learn about the overview of the other comments.

For example the filtering unit may perform the process by deleting for each of the information items part of the characters or symbols constituting the information item having the lower sender importance level so that the information item is reduced more without changing a meaning represented by the information item.

With this it is possible to regulate the total data amount of the comments to be outputted by outputting when the comments are present the comment of the sender that is unchanged since it was sent and the user desires to browse among the comments as well as by reducing a character string of each of comments of senders other than the comment without changing a meaning indicated by the comment and outputting the comments. Thus the user can easily find the comment of the sender that the user desires to browse among the comments and simultaneously learn about the overview of the other comments.

For example the filtering unit may perform the process by deleting for each of the information items an information item having a sender importance level lower than the predetermined value among the information items.

With this it is possible to regulate the total data amount of the comments to be outputted by outputting when the comments are present only the comment of the sender that the user desires to browse among the comments. Thus the user can find the comment of the sender that the user desires to browse among the comments.

For example each of the information items may be sent for dynamic content by the one sender in association with a reproduction time for the dynamic content and the total amount of the information items may be a total number of information items per unit time in the dynamic content or a total data amount of information items sent in a unit time.

With this it is possible to specify a time when many comments are posted based on a comment amount per unit time that is generated for dynamic content. The above described comment display control is performed in a period of time including the specified time. Thus the user can find the comment of the sender that the user desires to browse among the comments when the comment amount per unit time is large.

For example each of the information items may be sent for static content by the one sender in association with a position in the static content and the total amount of the information items may be a total number of information items per unit area of the static content or a total data amount of information items included in a unit area.

With this it is possible to determine a region in static content on which comments are posted based on the number of comments posted per unit area for the static content. The above described comment display control is performed on the determined region. Thus the user can find the comment of the sender that the user desires to browse among the comments when the number of comments per unit area is large.

For example each of the information items may be sent for an event in an actual time by the one sender in association with a time in the actual time and the total amount of the information items may be a total number of information items per unit time in the actual time or a total data amount of information items sent in a unit time.

With this it is possible to specify a time when many comments are posted based on the number of comments per unit time for an event in an actual time. The above described comment display control is performed in a period of time including the specified time. Thus the user can find the comment of the sender that the user desires to browse among the comments when the number of comments per unit time is large.

For example the information presentation control device may further include a relationship management unit configured to classify into one of brackets the closeness level wherein each of the sender importance levels may be the closeness level between the one sender and the user of the information presentation control device.

With this it is possible to specify a comment of a sender having a close relationship with the user of the information display control device. Thus the user can find among the comments the comment of the sender having the close relationship with the user.

For example the information presentation control device may further include a reliability level management unit configured to classify into one of brackets the reliability level independently of the user of the information presentation control device wherein each of the sender importance levels may be the reliability level of the one sender.

With this it is possible to determine a comment of a trustworthy sender based on the reliability level of each sender indicated by an index independent of a relationship with the user of the information presentation control device. Thus the user can find among the comments the comment of the trustworthy sender.

For example the information presentation control device may further include a comment importance level determining unit configured to determine comment importance levels each of which indicates how important a different one of the information items is wherein the filtering unit may perform when the information total amount determining unit determines that the total amount of the information items is greater than the predetermined value at least one process on the information items so that an amount of an information item among the information items having a lower comment importance level is reduced more.

With this it is possible to reduce when the comments are present an information amount of an unimportant comment and output the unimportant comment. Thus the user can easily find an important comment among the comments and simultaneously learn about the overview of the other comments.

For example the acquisition unit may acquire as one of the information items a short text information item including a text composed of a character or a symbol and having a length shorter than a predetermined length.

With this it is possible to use the information presentation control device in an online comment sending service in which the number of characters in information to be sent once is limited. Thus the user can find among the comments the comment of the trustworthy sender.

According to an exemplary embodiment disclosed herein an information presentation control method includes acquiring a plurality of information items sent by a plurality of senders calculating a total amount of the information items acquired in the acquiring determining sender importance levels each of which indicates how important a different one of the senders is determining whether or not the total amount of the information items calculated in the calculating is greater than a predetermined value performing when it is determined in the determining of whether or not that the total amount of the information items is greater than the predetermined value at least one process on an information item having a lower sender importance level among the information items so that an amount of the information item is reduced more the amount of the information item being the number of characters or symbols constituting the information item and outputting the information items after the performing.

In this way it is possible to produce the same advantageous effects as the information presentation control device.

These general and specific aspects may be implemented using a system a method an integrated circuit a computer program or a computer readable recording medium such as a CD ROM or any combination of systems methods integrated circuits computer programs or computer readable recording media.

It is to be noted that each of the exemplary embodiments described below shows a general or specific example. The numerical values shapes materials structural elements the arrangement and connection of the structural elements steps the processing order of the steps etc. shown in the following exemplary embodiments are mere examples and therefore do not limit the scope of the appended Claims and their equivalents. Therefore among the structural elements in the following exemplary embodiments structural elements not recited in any one of the independent claims are described as arbitrary structural elements.

It is to be noted that hereafter there is a case where the same reference signs are assigned to the same structural elements and descriptions thereof are omitted.

Non limiting Embodiment 1 describes the operation of an information display control device when the users of a comment distribution service post comments for video content. It is to be noted that the information display control device is an exemplary information presentation control device. In addition the video content is exemplary dynamic content.

The embodiments of the present disclosure are described with reference to the drawings. First the following describes the configuration of the information display control device according to Embodiment 1 of the present disclosure with reference to .

As shown by an information display control device includes a comment acquisition unit a comment IO unit a comment holding unit a comment extracting unit a comment importance level management unit a comment amount determining unit a comment filtering unit a comment output unit and a comment management unit .

The comment acquisition unit acquires comments from a comment providing unit that is a server on the network. The comment acquisition unit corresponds to an acquisition unit.

The comment management unit manages the comments acquired by the comment acquisition unit . The comment management unit includes the comment IO unit and the comment holding unit . The comment holding unit is a storage device that temporarily stores the comments acquired by the comment acquisition unit . The comment IO unit registers the comments acquired by the comment acquisition unit in the comment holding unit or extracts comments from the comment holding unit .

The comment extracting unit extracts comments from the comment holding unit via the comment IO unit according to an instruction condition from an application function that displays the comments. Here the application function means an application or a function that displays content for which comments are posted and the comments in association with each other. For instance there is an application that displays while a TV program is being viewed comments relevant to the TV program on a TV screen or a terminal at hand in conjunction with the progress of the TV program. It is to be noted that although the application is post installed into the television or the terminal and the function is incorporated into the terminal before shipping the application and the function do not differ in particular rank.

The comment importance level management unit acquires relationship information from a user relationship management unit creates or updates a sender management table and manages comment importance levels based on the sender management table. The comment importance level management unit corresponds to a sender importance level determining unit.

The comment amount determining unit determines a comment amount the number of comments held in the comment holding unit via the comment IO unit . The comment amount determining unit corresponds to an information total amount determining unit.

The comment filtering unit determines filtering conditions based on the levels of comment amounts held in the comment holding unit which are determined by the comment amount determining unit and the comment importance levels managed by the comment importance level management unit . In addition the comment filtering unit filters the comments extracted by the comment extracting unit . Here each of the levels of the comments amount determined by the comment amount determining unit is a level determined depending on which value range the comment amount a specific value belongs to. Moreover the comment filtering unit includes a comment total amount calculating unit that calculates a total data amount of comments outputted to the comment output unit within a certain period of time. The comment filtering unit corresponds to a filtering unit. The comment total amount calculating unit corresponds to an information total amount calculating unit. It is to be noted that the comment total amount calculating unit may be outside of the comment filtering unit and be communicable with the comment filtering unit .

The comment output unit provides the comments filtered by the comment filtering unit to the application function . The comment output unit corresponds to an output unit.

Furthermore as shown by a sender rating management unit the user relationship management unit and the comment providing unit are present as the various servers that are on the network and pertinent to the information display control device according to Embodiment 1 of the present disclosure.

The sender rating management unit is a service that ranks the reliability levels of senders of comments on a network based on activity history records of the senders on the network and is already realized by an existing service.

The user relationship management unit manages the human relationships of users on a social network and is available in an existing social network service.

The comment providing unit is a comment writing sharing service on a network that is represented by a microblog a service that enables a very short comment to be written to a server on a network an electronic bulletin board service or the like and is available as an existing service.

It is to be noted that the sender rating management unit the user relationship management unit and the comment providing unit are implemented as the servers connected to the network and each do not necessarily correspond to a single physical server device. Each of the sender rating management unit the user relationship management unit and the comment providing unit may be implemented on a single or multiple server devices or functions of the sender rating management unit the user relationship management unit and the comment providing unit may be achieved on the single server device.

It is to be noted that the information display control device is realized in various modifications as shown by for example and .

As stated the physical positions of the blocks included in the information display control device do not matter and the functions of the information display control device are achieved by overall operations performed by the blocks connected to each other through communication.

Specific processing performed by the information display control device is described with reference to the block diagram flow charts and information tables. First the following describes a whole extent of the processing.

Next the information display control device acquires comments from the comment providing unit S . Specifically the comment acquisition unit acquires the comments from the comment providing unit . The comment management unit manages the acquired comments. The comment acquisition unit may periodically acquire comments or acquire comments when the application function operates.

Next the information display control device performs filtering setting for comments S . Specifically the comment extracting unit extracts the comments managed by the comment management unit . Subsequently the comment filtering unit filters the comments using the sender management table managed by the comment importance level management unit . Here in the case where the number of comments managed by the comment management unit is large the number of comments sent is large only the comments of senders determined as important using the sender management table managed by the comment importance level management unit pass through the comment filtering unit . In contrast in the case where the number of comments managed by the comment management unit is small the comments of senders determined as not so important using the sender management table managed by the comment importance level management unit also pass through the comment filtering unit . As above it is possible to regulate the comment amount outputted from the comment output unit to the application function according to the comment amount managed by the comment management unit .

The following describes in detail the creation of the sender management table. It is to be noted that the detailed description below is for S in .

The information display control device determines the importance levels of comments using the sender levels of comment senders thereby determining filtering setting for the comments in the comment filtering unit . To put it another way the filtering setting is determined so that relatively more comments sent by senders having a high sender level are outputted and relatively less comments sent by senders having a low sender level are outputted. Here the term sender level is a closeness level indicating how close a sender and a user are. In the comment filtering a comment having a high sender level means a comment sent by a sender having a high sender level a sender having a high closeness level with the user . The above processes make it possible to preferentially display comments important for the user.

In this embodiment the sender level of a comment is determined by a relationship between a sender and the user that is a closeness level between the sender and the user. The relationship between the sender and the user is managed by the user relationship management unit that is in a social network service SNS on the Internet. Generally speaking a closeness level of a relationship between a user and another user is defined by the depth of the relationship between the user and the other user.

Next the comment importance level management unit compares the sender levels defined in the sender level definition table and the relationship information acquired in the relationship information acquisition process S to determine a sender level of each sender S . In a sender level determining process relationship information is searched based on information for identifying each sender e.g. an electronic mail address or a display name and the obtained relationship information and the sender levels are compared to determine the sender level of the sender. In the case where information for identifying a sender cannot be found even by searching relationship information the sender level of the sender is determined to be the ordinary person Level .

Next the comment importance level management unit registers in the sender management table the information for identifying the sender e.g. the electronic mail address or the display name and the determined sender level in association with each other S . It is assumed that information for identifying a sender e.g. an electronic mail address or a display name is associated with a comment acquired from the comment providing unit . is an exemplary sender management table. As shown by the sender management table manages sender identification information a display name and a sender level . The sender identification information and the sender level are essential among the three and there is no limitation set as to whether or not items other than the sender identification information and the sender level are collectively managed.

For example a sender whose sender identification information indicating aaa a.net has a sender level that is Level according to the sender management table and is defined as a person designated as a close friend among friends according to the sender level definition table . Stated differently it is clear that the sender is a person having a closeness level of a close friend. In contrast a sender whose sender identification information indicates eee a.net has a sender level that is Level according to the sender management table and is clearly a general person ordinary person having no particular relationship with the user according to the sender level definition table . It is to be noted that although the general person having no particular relationship with the user is defined such a person may be considered as undefined. Moreover in the sender management table it is possible to perform the same processing without managing a sender classified as an ordinary person undefined . Not all senders but only senders having a relationship with the user are managed and senders other than the managed senders are determined as ordinary persons.

It is to be noted that although the relationship information of the user is acquired in advance to create the sender management table in this embodiment senders may be sequentially identified by referring to the user relationship management unit for relationship information without creating the sender management table when the comment filtering unit filters comments. In this case instead of collectively acquiring the relationship information of the user as in the relationship information acquisition process S shown by the user relationship management unit is queried about referred to for a level of each sender. In particular managing all persons belonging to the same community as the user persons whose sender level is Level is managing many human relationships and thus efficient processing can be achieved by performing management to determine according to the sender management table whether or not a sender is a friend a person whose sender level is Level or whether or not a sender is a person designated as a close friend among friends a person whose sender level is Level and by sequentially referring to the user relationship management unit for relationship information in the case where the sender is classified into neither of the levels.

It is to be noted that the sender levels in the sender management table are preferably updated by periodically referring to the user relationship management unit for the relationship information. Moreover it is possible to cause in the case where the relationship information is updated notification of the updated relationship information in cooperation with the user relationship management unit and to update the sender levels in the sender management table based on the updated relationship information.

It is to be noted that the sender levels are defined based on the depth of the relationships with the user and the defined sender levels are used in this embodiment. It is however possible to use the objective reliability levels of senders on a network independently of the relationships between the senders and the user. Services that evaluate the objective reliability levels of senders have already been provided on a network. For instance it is objectively determined that a sender whose sent comments are more frequently reproduced is trusted on a network in the case where many people regularly read comments sent by the sender. Although a detailed description of determination criteria is omitted as the determination criteria are different from the essence of the present disclosure objective reliability levels may be considered as ratings and the objective reliability levels for senders may be acquired from the sender rating management unit and used as the sender levels. It is possible to acquire the objective reliability levels of the senders by performing an inquiry process on the sender rating management unit with information for identifying each sender as a key. It is assumed that the sender rating management unit provides an API that responds to the inquiry.

Comment acquisition and registration processing is described with reference to . It is to be noted that the detailed description below is for S in .

It is to be noted that the condition for the comment acquisition unit to acquire a comment is specified by the application function or the like that uses the comment. It is assumed that the condition for the comment acquisition unit to acquire a comment is for instance described beforehand in a configuration file as configuration information of the comment acquisition unit . It is to be noted that the condition for the comment acquisition unit to acquire a comment may be not only described in the configuration file but also stored in a storage area on a main memory that is not shown a storage area on a database that is not shown or the like.

Although an arrow is not shown in the application function may dynamically specify a condition for acquiring a comment to the comment acquisition unit . For example in the case of an application that displays while a TV program of a TV station is being shown a relevant comment when a rule is set that a comment includes an identifier corresponding to the TV station or the TV program is posted a condition may be set that a comment includes the identifier. With this it is possible to acquire and display a comment for a specific TV station or TV program. Here specific examples of the identifier include a hash tag e.g. ABC in a microblog service or the like.

It is to be noted that the comment acquisition unit usually acquires a comment from the comment providing unit using an API made public by the comment providing unit . Moreover the comment management unit including the comment IO unit and the comment holding unit is often implemented as a database system and thus the comment management unit may be implemented as a comment management database. Furthermore although the example where the comment is temporarily stored in the comment holding unit and the processing is performed is described in this embodiment in the case where comments are acquired and displayed in real time the comments may not be held the comment acquisition unit and the comment extracting unit may acquire necessary comments in cooperation with each other and the comment filtering unit may directly detect a comment amount determine the importance levels of the comments and filter the comments in the same manner as in this embodiment.

Next processing for determining a comment amount and concomitant processing for setting comment filtering are described with reference to . It is to be noted that the detailed description below is for S in .

First the comment amount determining unit queries the comment filtering unit about the number of comments outputted to the comment output unit within a certain period of time and determines a comment amount level by reference to a comment amount level definition table S .

Next the comment amount determining unit determines whether or not the comment amount level determined in S and a comment amount level immediately previously determined are different from each other S . In the case where the comment amount levels are different from each other YES in S comment filtering method selection S is performed. In contrast in the case where the comment amount levels are equal to each other NO in S the flow returns to the comment amount level determination S . The comment amount level determination S is periodically performed. It is to be noted that a comment amount level when a previous comment amount level determination S is performed is not yet determined when the comment amount level determination S is first performed and thus assuming that the comment amount levels are different from each other YES in S the comment filtering method selection S is performed.

Next the comment amount determining unit selects a comment filtering method by reference to the comment amount level definition table S .

Each of the threshold values shown by is an exemplary predetermined value. In other words a threshold value corresponding to the lowest value of a sender level of senders whose comments pass through are not filtered by the comment filtering unit is the predetermined value. For example in the case where only the comments of the senders whose sender level is higher than or equal to Level are not filtered the predetermined value is 30 comments minute.

There is a case where the number of displayed comments is significantly reduced because the filtering condition becomes too strict as a result of the sender level changing to a higher sender level. The number of comments after filtering is detected by querying the comment filtering unit . In this case instead of filtering excluding all the comments of senders having a lower sender level a process of increasing the number of comments such as 1 selecting randomly and 2 adding another condition may be included so that the number of displayed comments is not reduced too much. Examples of the other condition include separately acquiring the objective reliability levels of senders on a network and using the objective reliability levels together with the sender levels. In addition various conditions are conceivable. For example the qualities of comments are determined by analyzing the details of the comments or a sender who performs posting more frequently is prioritized.

The following describes filtering processing with reference to and . is a flow chart for comment output processing. Upon receiving from the application function a request to display a comment the comment extracting unit acquires from the comment IO unit a comment that satisfies a specified condition e.g. a comment about a specific TV station S .

Next the comment filtering unit performs the comment filtering processing S and outputs a comment obtained from the filtering to the comment output unit . Examples of the output method include displaying the comment on an application screen replying to an external request as a web server and outputting video to another apparatus. In addition the output method may be any method as long as the method allows the user to receive the output result.

The comment filtering processing S performed by the comment filtering unit is described in detail with reference to . is a flow chart for comment filtering processing. The comment filtering unit receives a comment from the comment extracting unit S and analyzes the received comment to extract sender information S . Next the comment filtering unit queries the comment importance level management unit as to which sender level the sender of the comment belongs to based on the extracted sender information S . Then the comment filtering unit compares the sender level of the sender of the comment and a sender level that is the current filtering condition set by the comment amount determining unit and determines whether the sender level of the sender of the comment is higher than or equal to the sender level that is the current filtering condition set by the comment amount determining unit S . In the case where it is determined that the sender level of the sender of the comment is higher than or equal to the sender level that is the current filtering condition YES in S the received comment is directly outputted. In contrast in the case where it is determined that the sender level of the sender of the comment is less than the sender level that is the current filtering condition NO in S the filtering processing is performed S .

More specifically the filtering processing S includes various methods. One of the methods is a method of avoiding displaying a comment discarding a comment . Another one of the methods is a method of not discarding a comment but performing character string processing so that a comment is shortened.

Examples of the character string processing include character string reduction processing in which in the case of a comment having the same successive characters only the portion where the same characters succeed is deleted. This processing is described with reference to . is an exemplary comment management table. In the comment management table shown by the comment We are Champion is reduced into for instance the comment We are Champion through the character string reduction processing. Moreover the comment It s Cooooooooooooooool is reduced into for example the comment It s Cool through the character string reduction processing. In this way the number of characters in a comment to be displayed is reduced. It is to be noted that a character string reduction amount may be varied according to a sender level of a sender of a comment. To put it another way the reduction amount may be set smaller a character string after the character string processing may be longer as the sender of the comment has a higher sender level and the reduction amount may be set larger the character string after the character string processing may be shorter as the sender of the comment has a lower sender level.

The above character string reduction processing is exemplary and other processing in which a character string is reduced can be employed.

A character size of a comment when the comment output unit outputs the comment may be reduced as the character string processing.

In the case where a long uniform resource locator URL or the like is described the number of characters is reduced by for instance abbreviating the URL. The URL abbreviation processing is already provided as a service on a network and thus a detailed technical description thereof is omitted.

As above the comment on which the filtering processing is performed is outputted to the comment output unit S . Subsequently the processes in S to S are repeatedly performed on a comment that is received next. In this manner it is possible to perform control so that the comment of the sender important for the user is preferentially displayed according to the comment amount.

It is to be noted that although information to be acquired is expressed as a comment in this embodiment this is an example and the information is not limited to the comment and may be expressed as data or content provided by the user. In addition although the term comment is used for the names of the constituent elements processable data is not limited to the comment and various data or content provided by the user corresponds to the comment.

Although the number of comments per unit time is used to determine the comment amount a sum of the numbers of characters per unit time which constitute each comment or a sum of the number of ideographic characters e.g. Chinese characters per unit time which are used for each comment may be used to determine the comment amount. This is because more accurate determination is made possible than the determination based on the number of comments per unit time as there is a case where it is difficult to view a comment when the number of characters is large but the number of comments per unit time is small and further a larger number of ideographic characters results in more information amount. It is desirable to appropriately adjust a threshold value the condition that the comment amount determining unit sets to the comment filtering unit based on for instance the number of comments the number of characters or the number of ideographic characters that are used to determine the comment amount.

It is to be noted that although the description is given in this embodiment based on the assumption that the comment is displayed on the screen reading aloud a comment by a voice makes it possible to provide the same effects. Stated differently there is a case where reading aloud a comment and viewing a comment differ from each other in the number of audible characters per unit time or the like it is desirable to set a threshold value suitable for the case of reading aloud a comment. The condition that the comment amount determining unit sets to the comment filtering unit determines the threshold value.

It is desirable to set the threshold value based on the number of comments or the number of characters that are easy for the user to view or listen to in consideration of the characteristics of a display means or a voice production means that outputs a comment such as a screen size and the performance of a speaker. For instance in the case where a viewer views content on a large screen television and reads a comment on a tablet terminal at hand the number of recognizable comments is thought to be reduced since the viewer greatly shifts the eyes. Thus it is conceivable to for example set the threshold value the condition that the comment amount determining unit sets to the comment filtering unit higher than usual.

As stated above it is possible to preferentially display the comment of the sender having a close relationship with the user in consideration of the relationships of the user the sender having the high sender level . Consequently it is possible to produce an effect of allowing the user to understand more common topics for future communication with the sender having the close relationship with the user. It is to be noted that although the information display control device acquires the comment itself from the comment providing unit and processes the comment in this embodiment there is a case where it is not permitted to temporarily hold a comment and re provide the comment depending on a comment sending service specification. In such a case the information display control device may perform the above processing provide to the application function information e.g. a comment ID for identifying a comment to be displayed which is obtained as a result of filtering and allow the application function to directly acquire the body of the comment from the comment providing unit based on the information.

It is to be noted that the series of processes performed on the comment in this embodiment can be also performed on a comment posted for an event occurring in an actual time.

As described above an information display control device according to an aspect of the present disclosure is the information display control device that regulates the total data amount of comments to be outputted by outputting when many comments are present the comment of the sender that is unchanged since it was sent and the user desires to browse among the comments as well as by reducing information amounts of comments of senders that are other than the comment and outputting the comments having the reduced information amounts. Thus the user can easily find the comment of the sender that the user desires to browse among the comments and simultaneously learn about an overview of the other comments.

Moreover the information display control device regulates the total data amount of comments to be outputted by outputting when the comments are present the comment of the sender that is unchanged since it was sent and the user desires to browse among the comments as well as by reducing a character string of each of comments of senders other than the comment without changing a meaning indicated by the comment and outputting the comments. Thus the user can easily find the comment of the sender that the user desires to browse among the comments and simultaneously learn about the overview of the other comments.

Furthermore the information display control device regulates the total data amount of comments to be outputted by outputting when the comments are present only the comment of the sender that the user desires to browse among the comments. Thus the user can find the comment of the sender that the user desires to browse among the comments.

Moreover it is possible to specify a time when many comments are posted based on a comment amount per unit time that is generated for dynamic content. The above described comment display control is performed in a period of time including the specified time. Thus the user can find the comment of the sender that the user desires to browse among the comments when the comment amount per unit time is large.

Furthermore it is possible to specify a time when many comments are posted based on a comment amount per unit time that is generated for an event in an actual time. The above described comment display control is performed in a specified period of time. Thus the user can find the comment of the sender that the user desires to browse among the comments when the comment amount per unit time is large.

Moreover it is possible to specify a comment of a sender having a close relationship with the user of the information display control device. Thus the user can find the comment of the sender having the close relationship with the user among the comments.

Non limiting Embodiment 2 of the present disclosure is described with reference to the drawings. In Embodiment 1 to determine the importance level of each comment the sender level of each of the senders of the respective comments is determined using the relationship information between the user and each sender.

In this embodiment the sender level of each sender is determined using not relationship information between a user and the senders but the objective reliability level of each sender.

A service of determining an objective reliability level of each person on a network hereafter referred to as a rating service has been so far provided as a service on the network. Specifically the rating service determines that a highly influential person in a society a person whose posted comments are regularly read by many users or the like has a high objective reliability level. A value score is provided as the determination result. The value score is used for determining the sender level of each sender.

As described above an information display control device according to another aspect of the present disclosure is the information display control device that makes it possible to determine the comment of a trustworthy sender based on the reliability level of each sender indicated by an index independent of a relationship with the user of the information display control device. Thus the user can find the comment of the trustworthy sender among comments.

Non limiting Embodiment 3 of the present disclosure is described with reference to the drawings. In Embodiment 1 to determine the importance level of each comment the sender level of each of the senders of the respective comments is determined using the relationship information between the user and each sender.

In this embodiment the importance level of each comment is determined using the comment type of the comment.

Comments are classified into comment types. Examples of the comment types include 1 a comment directly sent by a sender original comment 2 a comment in which a comment of a third person is cited to which a comment on the comment of the third person is added and which is sent comment with citation and 3 a comment of a third person which is forwarded without change forwarded comment . When the comment types are seen from a point of view of the importance levels of the comments a comment containing more original information is considered to be more important. Here comment importance levels each of which indicates the importance level of the comment are defined in association with the comment types of the comments as shown in a comment importance level definition table of .

The comment importance levels are defined as follows the lowest Level the second lowest Level and the highest Level are assigned to the forwarded comment the comment with citation and the original comment respectively.

The following describes filtering processing performed by the comment filtering unit in this embodiment. A basic processing flow is the same as the one described in Embodiment 1 but differs from the one in Embodiment 1 in the number of comment amount levels. Although the number of comment amount levels in the comment amount level definition table used in the comment amount level determining process S in in Embodiment 1 is 5 the number of comment amount levels in this embodiment is 3. is a comment amount level definition table in this embodiment. Three comment amount levels Levels to are set for three comment importance levels to .

Next the analyzed comment type is checked by reference to the comment level definition table to determine the comment level of the comment S .

Then the determined comment level is compared to a comment level corresponding to a comment amount level set by the comment amount determining unit S . When the determined comment level is higher than or equal to the comment level YES in S the comment is directly outputted S . In contrast in the case where the determined comment level is less than the comment level NO in S the comment is filtered S and then outputted S .

The filtering process S involves 1 simply discarding a comment 2 deleting a cited part from a comment with citation 3 maintaining a predetermined number of characters from the start of a comment and deleting the remaining characters 4 deleting part of a comment other than an important key word included in for instance a prepared important key word dictionary and so on.

As sated it is possible to produce an effect of presenting more meaningful information items to the user by determining the importance level of the comment using the comment type as a criterion and performing the filtering process.

As described above an information display control device according to yet another aspect of the present disclosure is an information display control device that reduces when the comments are present the information amount of the unimportant comment and outputs the unimportant comment. Thus the user can easily find the important comment among the comments and simultaneously learn about the overview of the other comments.

Non limiting Embodiment 4 of the present disclosure is described with reference to the drawings. Although Embodiment 1 describes the example of displaying the inputted comments in chronological order this embodiment describes an example of writing a comment on a page one page of a book or a magazine displayed on a liquid crystal display or the like of an electronic book or the like and browsing the electronic book together with the comment. It is to be noted that the electronic book is an example of still image content.

The comment amount is determined using the number of comments per unit time in Embodiment 1 whereas the comment amount is determined using the number of comments per unit display area in this embodiment.

The operation of an information display control device in this embodiment is described with reference to . Constituent elements to which the same reference signs are assigned as in basically perform the same processes as those in Embodiment 1. An application function in this embodiment has both a function to register a comment and a function to extract a comment. In other words the application function registers in the comment management unit comments received from many terminals and extracts the comments registered in the comment management unit and transmits the extracted comments to the terminals. For example a message board system is similar to the application function .

A user reads the electronic book on an application designates an article to which the user desires to add a comment and inputs the comment for the article. The inputted comment is stored in a comment holding unit via a comment registration unit and the comment IO unit .

A comment amount determining unit acquires comments from the comment filtering unit and determines a comment amount. In this embodiment the comment amount is determined using the number of comments per unit display area. To put it another way since it is significant that the comment amount is limited to an amount easy for the user to view when the comments are displayed on the page of the electronic book that is free from time concept viewability is determined by a density of comments displayed simultaneously the number of comments per unit display area .

Here it is possible to set a unit display area as 1 one page 2001 2 one article 2002 3 simple area 2003 and so on. A comment amount level is determined by classifying a comment amount based on the number of comments per unit display area. It is to be noted that although the comment amount is determined using the number of comments per unit display area the comment amount may be determined using a sum of the numbers of characters per unit display area which constitute respective comments or a sum of the numbers of ideographic characters e.g. Chinese characters per display unit area which are used for respective comments. This is because more accurate determination is made possible than the determination based simply on the number of comments as there is a case where it is difficult to view a comment when the number of comments is small but the number of characters is large and a larger number of ideographic characters results in more information amount.

It is desirable to appropriately adjust threshold values conditions that the comment amount determining unit sets to the comment filtering unit based on for instance the number of comments the number of characters or the number of ideographic characters that are used to determine the comment amount. When the comment amount levels are set in this manner just like Embodiments 1 to 3 it is possible to display only a comment having a high importance level by determining the importance levels of the comments according to the comment amount levels. Thus it is possible to produce the same effect also in the application that displays the comment on the page of the electronic book that is free from the time concept.

It is to be noted that the comment amount determining unit determines the comment amount and only the comment having the high importance level is displayed according to the comment amount in all the embodiments the comment amount determining unit is not necessarily indispensable. Only the comment having the high importance level may always be displayed regardless of the comment amount. Here the user is allowed to set the importance levels of comments to be displayed. Moreover the user may be allowed to select whether only the comment having the high importance level is always displayed or displayed according to the comment amount.

As described above an information display control device according to still another aspect of the present disclosure is the information display control device that makes it possible to determine the region in static content on which the lots of comments are posted based on the comment amount posted unit per area of the static content. The above described comment display control is performed on the determined region. Thus the user can find the comment of the sender that the user desires to browse among the comments when the comment amount per unit area is large.

The present disclosure is applicable to apparatuses and services that allow users to post comments on a broadcast program a recorded broadcast program video content on a network magazine content and so on and enjoy the content together with the comments.

