---

title: Bicycle speed/resistance attachment
abstract: An exercise assembly useful in training a bicyclist for increased speed includes a pair of elastic straps adjustable in their length to stretch between the rear axle of the bicycle and the bicyclist's respective thighs. The strap attachment to the thighs is effected by a corresponding pair of adjustable elastic hoops that are limited in their elastic expansion by fabric strips attached to each of the hoops at loosely spaced intervals. A set of elastomeric wraps may be further interposed between the thighs and the hoops to expand the contact area and therefore the shear load capacity of the engagement to limit any axial translation of the engagement along the thigh. When not in use the straps can be attached to the bicycle frame both when implemented as a stationary bicycle or when on the road.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09446278&OS=09446278&RS=09446278
owner: 
number: 09446278
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20121015
---
This application is a continuation in part of U.S. application Ser. No. 13 374 984 filed Jan. 26 2012 which in turn obtains the benefit of the earlier filing date of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 462 142 filed on Jan. 28 2011 and the benefit of these earlier filing dates is therefore accorded for all matter common therewith.

The present invention relates to an attachment arrangement extending a pair of elastic bands or tethers each stretched from a respective thigh of a bicyclist to a pair of laterally spaced points on the bicycle for providing resistance to the forward movement of the bicyclist s legs.

In my prior U.S. Pat. No. 5 197 931 issued Mar. 30 1993 I have described an exercise apparatus in which a rolling frame is trailed behind a user to fix the ends of a set of elastomeric bands or straps that at their other ends each respectively attach to the arms and legs of the user to elastically restrain the forward motion of each of these limbs while running. Thereafter I described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 652 427 issued to me on Nov. 25 2003 an improved form of the foregoing elastomeric restraint arrangement in which the elastic band is branched to the legs from a single elastic strap extending rearward to an attachment at the end of a treadmill with the single elastic strap delayed in its motion by the lagging motion of a fabric panel to align the strap out of the way of the user s other leg an improvement that was then carried over for use on a track by way of a roller supported trailing frame described in U.S. Pat. No. 7 998 030 that was issued to me on Aug. 16 2011.

Each of the foregoing stem from my observation and also the observations of many others that any neuromuscular movement sequence of a human body follows very predictable coordinated patterns dictated by the anatomical disposition of the muscle groups involved in the movement their skeletal attachments their various elastic coefficients mass distribution moments of inertia and so on as it is these interrelationships that were earlier honed by evolution to make us the highly efficient bipedal species that we are. Of course improvement by training of such coordinated muscle groups is best achieved by their natural repetition while their main muscle group effort is enhanced. In this manner the muscle group involved in the running movement for example is best trained while running with the main thigh muscles loaded by an elastic restraint to a higher effort to extend the distance of the runner s gait as in my prior U.S. Pat. No. 7 998 030 with the remainder of the muscle complement then following suit.

In the past such elastic restraints were typically deployed between one and another part of the user s body as for example the resistance arrangement disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 6 280 365 to Weber et al. U.S. Pat. No. 7 314 437 to Frappier U.S. Pat. No. 7 850 583 to Smith and many others or the restraint is fixed to a stationary object as in U.S. Pat. No. 6 612 845 to Macri et al. U.S. Pat. No. 7 087 001 to Thli and others. While suitable for the purposes intended each of the foregoing limits the extent of its use by its very nature and their application is wholly inapposite to train the wholly unconstrained movement of running or particularly bicycling movement that is characterized by well coordinated muscle groupings that achieve a self reinforcing gait or cyclic pattern from their common coefficients of restitution resulting from coordinated and matching mass elastic coefficients and dynamic responses of the whole muscle group.

An elastic restraint arrangement useful in developing and strengthening the coordinated movements that complement the operation of a matched carriage like a bicycle are therefore extensively desired and it is one such arrangement that is disclosed herein.

Accordingly it is the general purpose and object of the present invention to provide a set of elastic restraint straps adjustable to stretch between the rear frame portion of a bicycle to the thighs of the mounted bicyclist to provide resistive forces to the upward and forward movement of the bicyclist s legs.

Yet other and further objects of the present invention shall become apparent upon the review of the description following in conjunction with the illustrations appended.

Briefly these and other objects are accomplished within the present invention by releasably mounting onto each of the free ends of the rear axle shaft of a bicycle an attachment fixture attached to one end of a corresponding elastic strap which at its other end is looped through the base of a spring loaded swivel clip and returned in a length adjusting loop by way of a clasp or cam buckle like those sold under the style or model designations 40880 22 42195 11 or 40880 15 by Ancra International LLC Hawthorne Calif. selectively grasping the strap portion extending therethrough. The swivel clip may then be selectively attached either to an attachment hook mounted on the bicycle frame when not in use or may be engaged to a D ring sown into an elastic hoop that is cinched around the corresponding thigh of the bicyclist thereby providing a resistive tension opposing the upward and forward part of the leg and pedal movement while assisting the pedaling effort over the return part of the pedal arc. In this manner the muscular stress level involved in the forward movement is enhanced while the effort of the muscle group of the return stroke is reduced.

For those users of this exercise restraint that may not have thigh musculatures forming a substantial taper towards the knee and therefore allow for some translation of the elastic hoop along the thigh in the course of the training process an intermediate elastomeric canvas wrap may be stretched over the thigh to which the hoop can then be selectively affixed by way of the well known hook and pile attachment referred to by the name or style Velcro . A similar fastening method can also be used to fasten the wrap in its stretched extension on the thigh where it is retained in its selected position by a plurality of sponge pads attached at distributed locations of the wrap interior to effect an enhanced engaging contact with the user s skin at each of the sponge opening edges.

In this form various anatomical shapes are conveniently accommodated in the engagement mechanism so that all the desired levels of exercise vigor can be carried out. Of course the utilization of sponge pads at the most direct contacts with the user s skin provides a moisture absorbing interface where it is most needed to absorb the sweat moisture that invariably follows all training vigor.

Those skilled in the art will appreciate that an organism developed in an evolutionary setting will flourish if its several components as a group maximize its energy consumption efficiency and a conservative running gait as well as the cyclic pedaling of a well designed bicycle that maximize rebound energy otherwise referred to as maximizing its coefficient of restitution will prevail. An exercise mechanism that imposes a biasing load by resisting the forward motion of the whole muscle group will inherently bias this efficiency towards a faster rate a result that has been and continues to be heuristically supported. Thus the instant invention results in a bias towards faster movement down the track providing a convenient mechanism for those training for competition. Of course any significant modification of muscular movement sequences can only be achieved through extensive repetition which the foregoing moisture absorbing contact pads absorb thus extending the possible training intervals to a point where the mechanism of fatigue then resolve this muscular adaptation to its most efficient form.

As shown in the inventive restraint assembly generally designated by the numeral comprises a first and second elastic strap combination and each defined by an elastomeric strap engaged at one end to a cam buckle which in a like manner to the cam buckles referred to above is provided with a slot though which the same looped strap is returned to pass underneath a spring loaded cam C after first passing through the eyelet E of a swivel clip . In this form the length of the strap loop separating the cam buckle from the swivel clip may be conveniently adjusted to select the strap dimension between the swivel clip extending partially within a cloth sheath affixed to the other end that of strap that is also engaged to a hoop H on the periphery of a washer conformed to receive one end of the rear axle shaft AX of a bicycle BC to be retained in this engaged position by a spring circlip .

A pair of hoops and conformed to be cinched around the thighs of the using bicyclist UR as he or she is mounted on bicycle BC are again each defined by an elastomeric strap respectively attached at their one ends to one of a further set of cam buckles with the other ends of each of the straps then returned for capture within the same cam buckles for convenient adjustment of their hoop dimension around the the user s thighs.

To obtain a secure tightly fitting engagement with the user s thighs each of the hoops and further includes corresponding fabric strips sewn in spaced convolved loops L to a substantial portion of the corresponding elastomeric strap thereby limiting the range of its extension thereof to assure a tight fit throughout the various muscular movements. A D ring is then also sown onto each of the hoops and at one of these fastenings of strips to provide a convenient attachment for the respective swivel clips as each of the strap combinations and are stretched between the axle AX and the thighs of the user with each strap and its adjustment buckle enclosed by a fabric sheath to protect against chafing.

It will be appreciated that the foregoing dimensional hoop limit of each of the thigh engaging hoops and effectively confines their locations adjacent the knees by virtue of the typical dimensional taper of the thigh. At the same time the looped configuration of each of the resistance producing strap combinations and allows for a wide range of resistive tension originating from the rear wheel axle thus conveniently allowing for a wide range of exercise levels with the tensioning vector consistently well defined by the bicycle geometry. From this well defined resistance generating framework a training program of increasing resistance levels can then be devised in order to increase the muscle group natural pedaling rate thus increasing the competitive level.

An opposing set of retaining hooks and are each cantilevered outwardly from the bicycle frame BF to provide a convenient set of attachments of the swivel clips once these are disengaged from the respective D rings stretching the straps within their respective sheaths while retaining their most recent tension settings determined by the cam buckles . Thus a minimal time increment is incurred in the training process to obtain a measured comparison of the most recent pedaling rate achieved thereby enabling a well defined training regiment by which the natural pedaling rate is increased as result of preferential muscular development within the muscle array devoted to this effort.

For those instances where difficulties are encountered in maintaining the respective hoops at their selected positions on the thighs of the user UR i.e. in those instances where the thigh musculature fails to define a distinct reduction or taper in its section close to the user s knees an intermediate set of mounting wraps and are provided as illustrated in . Both the wraps described herein in detail by particular reference to the wrap the other wrap being similarly implemented includes a generally rectangular elastomeric fabric panel having the transverse edges thereof adhesively bonded to the opposing segments V and V of a hook and pile releasable securing mechanism generally known Velcro and are thereby conformed to be wrapped in tension about the user s thighs TH to span axially over most of its length.

Similar to the hoops the elastomeric panel of each of the wraps and is limited in its maximum elastic extension by corresponding strips sown in convolved loops L to the exterior surface thereof with the exteriors of these loops having adhered thereto segments V of yet another hook and pile securing mechanism with the complementing segments V then adhered in generally corresponding spacing to the underside of the elastomeric straps forming the respective hoops and . Of course once so secured the respective D rings carried on each of the hoops can then be engaged to the respective swivel clips in a manner like that previously described.

The inside surfaces of each of the elastomeric fabric panels are then each provided with a plurality of generally flat spaced sponge pads that are each sown to the panel in an alignment presenting their large faces that including the exposed openings OC therein for intimate contact with the user s skin the edges of each opening thus enhancing the shear load capacity at each such contact while also providing the pathways for absorbing any sweat produced during exercise. In this manner the utility of the instant restraint system may be expanded over a wide range of musculatures and also to prolonged exercise routines like those carried out on a stationary bicycle SBC.

All these foregoing advantages are conveniently achieved in an assembly that is simple to produce easily attached to a bicycle structure and is well shielded by fabric sheaths to minimize any possible sources of inadvertent contact. This simplicity and inherent safety are particularly useful in a self training program in which the commercially available bicycle speed sensing equipment can provide a measurement reference for the training s success.

Obviously many modifications and variations of the instant invention can be effected without departing from the spirit of the teachings herein. It is therefore intended that the scope of the invention be determined solely by the claims appended hereto.

