---

title: Server facilitated content distribution
abstract: Described herein are systems and methods for initiating on a first device distribution and presentation of content to a second device. A server facilitates the distribution by determining a presentation context of the second device. Based at least in part on the presentation context, the server retrieves and processes the content and provides output content to the second device for presentation. A consolidated content list may also be maintained. The consolidated content list allows the user to add content for later consumption, or access the content, regardless of the content provider supplying the content.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09146893&OS=09146893&RS=09146893
owner: Amazon Technologies, Inc.
number: 09146893
owner_city: Reno
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121126
---
A wide variety of content is available to users for access electronically. This content may include television programming audio books music movies and so forth. The content may be delivered using broadcast cable satellite networks such as the Internet and so forth. Content provided via the Internet or another network may be streamed to a media device for presentation. During streaming portions of the content are delivered while presentation of the content may be taking place.

Users may have a variety of devices to present the content on. Traditionally it has been problematic to present content on different destination devices which may be incompatible with a format of the content from a content provider. Furthermore initiating presentation on another device has been cumbersome typically requiring the user to manually select the content from the destination device itself.

Finally each of the different content providers may maintain separate content lists such as items queued for later presentation. Accessing the content on these content lists may be difficult in that the user may have to go to a particular service provider retrieve the list and so forth.

Certain implementations will now be described more fully below with reference to the accompanying drawings in which various implementations or aspects are shown. However various aspects may be implemented in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the implementations set forth herein. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout.

A vast and ever growing collection of content is available for users to access. This content may include television programming audio books music movies and so forth which may be streamed from a content provider over a data network such as the Internet to a device for presentation. Users may access this content from a variety of different devices ranging from tablets smartphones televisions in vehicle entertainment systems game consoles portable computers desktop computers and so forth. A user may come across content of interest while using a first device but may wish to consume that content on a second device. For example the user may find a link to a video of interest while using a smartphone but chooses to watch the video on the television. The user may also wish to save that content for later or repeated consumption.

Described in this disclosure are devices and methods for facilitating content distribution with a server. A user may find content of interest or links to content of interest using a first or access device which receives content data from a content provider server. The user may activate a bookmarklet or other function on the access device to send mark data indicative of the content to a distribution server. The bookmarklet may be configured to cause the distribution server to present the content on a second or destination device enter the content onto a content list for later presentation or both.

The content from the content provider may be in a format which is incompatible with presentation on the destination device. The format of a piece of content includes data encoding scheme used sample rate frame rate color depth resolution bit rate compression used encryption used and so forth. For example the content provider may provide the content in an MPEG 4 format while the destination device may only be capable of displaying MPEG 2 format. In another example the content provider may provide the content a format using MPEG 4 encoding with image resolution of 1920 1080 pixels and multichannel audio format while the destination device may only be capable of presenting a format where the MPEG 4 encoded images have a maximum resolution of 1920 720 and two channels of audio. In traditional systems the content would either be unavailable for presentation on the destination device or some additional intervention such as installation of additional codecs would be required to enable presentation of the content. As described herein the distribution server may process the content from a first format supplied by the content provider to a second format compatible with the second device for presentation. This processing may include decryption transcoding transrating transsizing and so forth. As a result the user may easily and seamlessly initiate presentation of content on a variety of different destination devices.

Each of the content providers may maintain individual content lists associated with user accounts. The content lists provide a storage location for data indicating one or more pieces of content which the user wishes to consume. Traditionally these lists have been isolated such that a user searching for a particular piece of content on a content list would need to log into each content provider for which they have an account. As described below the distribution server may maintain a consolidated content list which combines data indicative of content from several content providers. Using this functionality the user may maintain and use a single consolidated content list which includes content from multiple content providers. This improves the user experience and ability to consume content without having to access the various content providers.

The overall user experience of consuming content is improved by the distribution server s handling of the content which enables the user to easily select and present a wide array of content on a wide array of devices. Furthermore the ability to maintain and use the consolidated content list allows the user to easily store and consume content regardless of the content provider which supplies the content. Instead of fussing with installation of codecs to present content or looking through the lists of content on several content providers the user may simply enjoy the content.

One or more devices are depicted including an access device . The access device may comprise a television a set top box a tablet computer a smartphone an in vehicle entertainment system a laptop computer a desktop computer and so forth. The access device is configured to present one or more content references to the user . The presentation may include visual presentation on a display audio presentation using a speaker and so forth. The content references may be icons graphics links or other indicators which are based at least in part on content data . The content data may be received from one or more content provider servers . . . P maintained by a content provider. The content provider server may store one or more pieces of content . . . N for presentation to the user . The content data is information which is indicative or descriptive of the content . In some implementations the content data may include references to the content . These references may include a link or address which when processed by a device may cause presentation of the content .

The content provider server may also include a content list module . The content list module is configured to store a content list comprising data indicative of one or more pieces of content which the user or another party has stored for consumption.

The content provider server includes a content distribution module . The content distribution module is configured to provide at least a portion of the content in one or more formats to an external device. The content distribution module may be configured to send the content or a portion thereof prior to presentation to stream portions of the content or a combination thereof.

Returning to the access device the access device may also present one or more bookmarklet controls . . . B . The bookmarklet control may comprise a script or bookmark which is stored on a web page delivered to the access device or within a bookmark stored locally on the access device . For example the bookmarklet may execute a script by a browser using a web browser engine executing on the access device . The bookmarklet control is configured to upon receiving user input from the user generate mark data . In some implementations a different bookmarklet control may be associated with a particular content reference . For example the content reference which refers to a video about how to plant a coconut palm may be associated with the bookmarklet control . Upon activation of the bookmarklet control mark data associated with the content reference may be generated.

The mark data comprises information indicative of the content data or the content presented on the access device . For example the mark data may include information such as a uniform resource identifier or uniform resource locator provided in the content data which refers to the content as associated with the content reference . In another example the user may be watching on the access device a portion of the content and activate the bookmarklet control to generate the mark data .

The mark data may include information associated with the content data the user and an action to be taken. The information may include one or more of user account identification associated with the user of the access device content identifier referring to the content designation of a destination device request to add the content to a content list and so forth. For example the activation of the bookmarklet control may present the user with a user interface on the access device which prompts for a destination device to cause presentation on of the associated content .

The mark data is received by one or more distribution servers . . . D . The distribution server may comprise a mark management module a content list management module and a content processing module . In some implementations the mark data may comprise a hypertext markup language HTML or extensible markup language XML file.

The mark management module is configured to accept and process the mark data received from one or more of the access devices . The mark data may be used to indicate that one or more pieces of content are to be added to a consolidated content list processed for presentation on a device or both. The mark management module is described in more detail below with regard to .

The content list management module is configured to allow the user to manage a consolidated list of content associated with the user the access device or both. In some implementations the content list management module may be configured to access the content list module or content lists of one or more content provider servers to exchange list data .

The list data comprises information indicative of one or more pieces of content . The list data may include one or more a content title a rating of the content a graphic associated with the content a content identifier configured to allow retrieval of the content from the content provider server and so forth.

The content list management module may add or remove content to the consolidated list based at least in part on the mark data the list data or other user inputs received from the user or other modules. The content list management module is described in more detail below with regard to .

The content processing module is configured to process input content supplied by the content provider server and generate output content for distribution to one or more destination devices . . . K . The content processing module may receive data indicative of one or more pieces of content for processing from the mark management module the content list management module and so forth. For example the mark management module may receive the mark data indicating that the user has selected the content which is indicated by content reference on the access device is to be presented on the destination device . In another example the user may select for presentation one of the pieces of content referenced in the consolidated content list maintained by the content list management module .

The processing to be applied to the content by the content processing module is configured to enable or facilitate presentation of the resulting output content on the destination device . In one implementation the processing may comprise transcoding content. For example the content may be supplied from the content provider server in a first format such as video in the MPEG 4 format as promulgated by the Motion Picture Experts Group. Continuing the example the destination device may lack the necessary hardware or software to present the MPEG 4 format instead only being able to support the MPEG 2 format. The content processing module may be configured to transcode the supplied input content from MPEG 4 into output content in the MPEG 2 format. This output content may be provided to the destination device allowing the destination device to present the content or a representation thereof . The content processing module and its operation is discussed in more depth below with regard to .

The output content is based at least in part on the input content . In some implementations the output content may be provided in an output format which differs from an input format of the input content . For example video content may have the video removed during processing and only the audio track associated with the video may be provided in the output content where the destination device lacks a display device.

The destination devices may include one or more tablets smartphones televisions in vehicle entertainment systems game consoles portable computers desktop computers and so forth. The destination devices may act as access devices and vice versa. The designation of access device and destination device is used in this disclosure for illustration and not by way of limitation. Furthermore the access device and the destination devices K may be present at the same location or different locations. The devices may be used or accessed by different users. For example the user may use the access device while at work to initiate presentation of content on the destination device which is located at home and being watched by the user .

The access device the content provider server the distribution server and the destination device may use one or more network interfaces to communicate with one another using one or more networks coupled to those network interfaces. The networks may comprise one or more private networks public networks such as the Internet or a combination of both configured to transfer data between two or more devices.

In this user interface the content reference is depicted. Here the content reference comprises an indication of video content which is available for playback. As described above the content reference may comprise icons graphics links or other indicators of content which are based at least in part on content data . In some implementations the content reference may include presentation of the content . For example the web page may include video which automatically begins playing.

Also illustrated is the bookmarklet control corresponding to the content reference . The user may activate the bookmarklet control by various user inputs such as touching on a touch screen clicking with a mouse pressing a key on a keyboard selecting from a menu and so forth. Upon activation the bookmarklet control may be configured to send the mark data to the distribution server .

In some implementations the bookmarklet control may activate a destination selection interface . The user may use the destination selection interface to generate data indicative of a particular action which the user desires the distribution server to take after receipt of the mark data .

The destination selection interface may present options to the user such as add to your content list or indicate several different destination devices K . Based at least in part on user input responsive to the destination selection interface the mark data may include information indicative of the selection. For example the mark data may include information which indicates the user has selected to add the content to the user s consolidated content list maintained by the content list management module present the content on the destination device or both.

In some implementations the bookmarklet control may not be specific to or associated with a particular content reference . Thus activation may provide mark data which includes references to more than one piece of content . For example where the user interface includes three pieces of content and the bookmarklet control is implemented as a bookmark the mark data associated with activation may include information about all three pieces of content . The mark management module may be configured with a default action such as adding the content to the content list and processing the content with the content processing module in order to deliver output content to a default device .

The processor may comprise one or more cores and is configured to access and execute at least in part instructions stored in the one or more memories . The one or more memories comprise one or more computer readable storage media CRSM . The one or more memories may include but are not limited to random access memory RAM flash RAM magnetic media optical media and so forth. The one or more memories may be volatile in that information is retained while providing power or non volatile in that information is retained without providing power.

The one or more I O interfaces allow for coupling I O devices to the content provider server . The I O interfaces may comprise inter integrated circuit I2C serial peripheral interface bus SPI universal serial bus USB RS 232 RS 432 and so forth.

The one or more communication interfaces provide for the transfer of data between the content provider server and other devices such as the access device the distribution server the destination device and so forth. The communication interfaces may be configured to connect the content provider server wired or wirelessly to one or more networks such as the Internet.

In other implementations other devices or components may be coupled to or incorporated within the content provider server . For example digital rights management DRM devices may be provided to control access to content.

The one or more memories may store code or program instructions for execution by the processor to perform certain actions or functions. In some implementations at least a portion of the instructions may be stored in external memory accessible to the content provider server such as on another content provider server .

These instructions in the one or more memories may include an operating system . The operating system is configured to manage hardware resources such as the I O interfaces and provide various services to applications executing on the processor .

The one or more memories may also store a datastore containing information. This information may include the content data one or more pieces of the content N the list data and other data . The other data may include user account information which contain information associated with one or more of the users . . . U digital rights management keys billing information and so forth. While the datastore is depicted as residing in the memory of the content provider server in some implementations at least a portion of the data in the datastore may be stored on or distributed across one or more other servers or other devices. The datastore may comprise a database flat file linked list or other data structure.

Stored in the memory may be the user interface module which is configured to provide a user interface for presentation to the user . For example the user interface module may provide one or more web pages configured to accept input from the user . The user interface module may be configured to provide a graphical user interface in which the user can select content for presentation. In some implementations other interfaces may be provided such as an application programming interface or other device to device interface to facilitate interaction between the content provider server and other devices such as the access device the distribution server the destination devices and so forth.

The memory may also include the content list module . As described above the content list module is configured to store and maintain a content list comprising data indicative of one or more pieces of content which the user or another party has stored for consumption. For example the user may have added particular pieces of content to the content list for later consumption.

The memory may also store the content distribution module . As described above the content distribution module is configured to provide at least a portion of the content in one or more formats to an external device.

The format of content indicates how content is represented as data and the arrangement of that data. The format may be defined by an encoding scheme used encoding bandwidth image resolution and so forth. A particular piece of content may be available in several different formats from one or more content provider servers . For example the same piece of content may be available in a standard definition 480p version and a high definition 1080p version while both are encoded using the MPEG 4 encoding scheme. Different formats may require different hardware or software for presentation. Hardware may include dedicated hardware decoders while software may include software decoders or codecs.

The content distribution module may be configured to send the content or a portion thereof prior to presentation. For example a single music track may be delivered as a single MP3 file prior to presentation. The content distribution module may also be configured to stream the content where presentation takes place while portions of the content continue to be delivered.

Other modules may also be stored in the memory . For example a billing module may be configured to accept and process payment information to provide access to the content .

The processor may comprise one or more cores and is configured to access and execute at least in part instructions stored in the one or more memories . The one or more memories comprise one or more CRSM such as described above.

The one or more I O interfaces similar to those described above allow for coupling I O devices to the distribution server . The I O interfaces may comprise I2C SPI USB RS 232 RS 432 and so forth. The I O devices may include keyboards external memory printers and so forth.

The one or more communication interfaces provide for the transfer of data between the distribution server and other devices such as the access device the content provider server the destination devices and so forth. The communication interfaces may include but are not limited to PANs LANs WLANs WWANs and so forth.

In other implementations other devices or components may be coupled to or incorporated within the distribution server . For example digital rights management DRM devices may be provided to control access to content.

The one or more memories may store code or program instructions for execution by the processor to perform certain actions or functions. In some implementations at least a portion of the instructions may be stored in external memory accessible to the distribution server .

These instructions in the one or more memories may include an operating system . The operating system is configured to manage hardware resources such as the I O interfaces and provide various services to applications executing on the processor .

The one or more memories may also store a datastore containing information. This information may include one or more of the content the mark data the list data or the output content . Consolidated content list data destination device presentation context data and other data may also be stored in the datastore . The consolidated content list data is discussed below in more detail with regard to the mark management module while the destination device presentation context is discussed below in more detail with regard to the content processing module . The datastore may comprise a database flat file linked list or other data structure.

Other data may also be stored in the datastore such as digital rights management keys billing information and so forth. While the datastore is depicted as residing in the memory of the distribution server in some implementations at least a portion of the data in the datastore may be stored on or distributed across one or more of the distribution servers or other devices.

The memory may store one or more of a user interface module the mark management module the content list management module or the content processing module . The user interface module may be configured to provide a user interface for presentation to the user . For example the user interface module may provide one or more web pages configured to accept input from the user for viewing the consolidated content list data . In some implementations other interfaces may be provided such as an application programming interface or other device to device interface to facilitate interaction between the content provider server and other devices such as the access device the content provider servers the destination devices and so forth.

The mark management module is configured to accept and process the mark data from one or more of the access devices . The mark management module may be configured to parse incoming mark data and based at least in part on the mark data initiate one or more actions in the other modules of the distribution server . For example receipt of the mark data which includes data to add a piece of content to the user s associated consolidated content list data may result in sending the identification of the content and the user account associated with the user to the content list management module . In another example receipt of the mark data which includes a designation of a destination device may result in sending the content identification and the destination device information to the content processing module .

The content list management module is configured to maintain the consolidated content list data which provides a content list associated with a particular user account associated with the user . The user may create a user account and request that the content lists present on one or more content provider servers be retrieved as the list data and merged to form the consolidated content list data . In some implementations the content list management module may be configured to push list data to one or more of the content provider servers .

The consolidated content list data comprises information indicative of one or more pieces of content . The consolidated content list data may include one or more of a content provider identifier content identifier indicative of the particular piece of the content or the content data . The content provider identifier is indicative of a particular content provider or content provider server associated with the particular content provider. In some implementations the content identifier may include a uniform resource identifier or uniform resource locator which comprises a deep link such that the deep link is indicative of the content provider and the particular piece of content .

The content list management module may provide the consolidated content list data or a portion thereof to the user . For example the user interface module may provide web pages which allow the user to login review content items on the list and initiate presentation on one or more of the destination devices .

The content processing module is configured to process input content received from the content provider server and generate output content for distribution to one or more destination devices . . . K .

The processing may include decrypting transcoding transrating transsizing adapting or otherwise altering the content in such a fashion as to provide output content which is operable to be presented on the destination device . Decrypting is removing encryption such as a digital rights management DRM scheme. Transcoding is the process of converting data from a first encoding scheme to a second encoding scheme. For example video data may be converted from MPEG 2 to MPEG 4. Transrating processes the content in such a way that the encoding scheme is retained while the bit rate changes. For example audio content encoded at a bit rate of 128 kilobits per second may be transrated down to a 64 kilobit per second bit rate. Transsizing processes the content to scale or change from a first image size to a second image size. For example video content which is encoded in 720p may be transsized to upscale to 1080p for presentation on a corresponding 1080p device. Other alterations such as converting black and white images to color color images to black and white and so forth may also be provided.

The content processing module may be configured to determine what processing to apply to the content based at least in part on the destination device presentation context data . The destination device presentation context data presentation context data provides information which is indicative of the destination device which is to present the output content . The presentation context data may include device characteristics such as display hardware content characteristics such as whether the content is video or audio user preferences such as audio equalizer settings and so forth. The destination device presentation context data is discussed in more detail below with regard to . For example as described below the presentation context data may include information that the destination device supports a 1920 1080 display resolution has a hardware decoder for MPEG 2 available and so forth.

The content processing module uses the presentation context data to determine what format the destination device requires in order to present the output content . Once determined the content processing module may generate output content which is consumable by the destination device . For example the content provider server may provide the content in a format comprising standard definition video of 480p encoded with MPEG 4. The user may use the access device to send mark data requesting presentation of the content on the destination device . The content processing module may determine from the presentation context data associated with the destination device that the destination device has a display with a native resolution of 1080p only accepts MPEG 2 encoded data and does not support hardware upscaling of video content. Based at least in part on this presentation context data the content processing module may be configured to generate output content in which the content is transcoded into MPEG 2 and upscaled to 1080p. The output content now in a content which is operable by the destination device to present may then be presented to the user . From the user s point of view they activated the bookmarklet control perhaps selected the destination device if not previously set as a default and were able to see the content presented on the destination device .

The content processing module may apply other forms of processing. In one implementation the content processing module may add or remove of borders such as windowboxes letterboxes pillarboxing and so forth based at least in part on the presentation context data . In another implementation captions may be added by content processing module . For example closed captions may be added to a video stream. The content processing module may use machine or human translation to provide captions or additional audio allowing the user to experience content which is in a language unknown to the user . For example the user may select content which is in German which is processed into output content with English subtitles or computer generated English audio.

The content processing module may also be configured to apply content filters such that the output content is a subset of the input content . For example the user parent may activate a content filter. During processing words present in the content which are indicated in a profanity list are removed from the output content which is presented on the destination device to the user child.

The processing applied by the content processing module may also include but is not limited to adjusting image settings sharpening images modifying audio adding transitions between pieces of content and so forth.

Other modules may also be stored in the memory . For example a digital rights management module may be configured to apply digital rights management techniques to the output content .

In this illustration three content provider servers are depicted each associated with a different content provider entity. Each of the content provider servers shown here are associated with a different content provider. The user may have different user accounts with each of these content providers. A content list for each of the content providers indicates content which the user or another party has designated for later consumption by the user .

Over time the user has added different pieces of content to content lists of each of the content providers. In this illustration content list on the content provider server includes the content titles Tobor s Revenge and Burnt Sage. Meanwhile the content provider server holds content list with the content title Folk Music Today. Likewise the content provider server holds content list which includes the content titles Poker Playoffs and Curling Finals. 

The content list management module may be configured to access the content lists associated with the user and generate the consolidated content list data . The list data may be retrieved by the distribution server from the content list modules on the content provider servers . The list data may be processed and used to create the consolidated content list data . The consolidated list data may then be presented within which the content titles are presented and available. The user may access this single list and select content for presentation. Once selected for presentation the content may be supplied by the respective content provider server . In some implementations the content processing module may be used to process the content into the output content as described above.

Block receives from the access device the mark data . As described above the mark data is indicative of one or more pieces of content provided by one or more content providers from the content provider servers . For example the user may activate the bookmarklet control for the content Tobor s Revenge. 

The bookmarklet control may be configured to add content which is currently being presented on the access device or one of the destination devices . In some implementation the bookmarklet control may be configured to access information from one or more sensors of the access device and use this to determine the content to add to the consolidated content list data . For example a microphone and global positioning system receiver may be used to acquire audio and position information respectively. Based at least in part on this information the system may determine that the user is at a recording of the radio show Folk Music Today and thus generate the mark data for the content resulting from the recording.

Block adds the one or more pieces of content to the consolidated content list data . For example data indicating the content Tobor s Revenge and Folk Music Today may be added to the list.

Block receives user input to present the one or more pieces of content on the destination device . For example the user may use the user interface presented by the user interface module to select the presentation of Tobor s Revenge on the destination device .

Block causes presentation of the one or more pieces of content on the destination device . For example the content Tobor s Revenge may begin playing on the destination device . Prior to presentation in some implementations the content may be processed by the content processing module of the distribution server . This processing is discussed below with regard to .

The presentation context data provides information which is indicative of the destination device which is to present the output content . By having knowledge of the destination device the content processing module may select processing which is appropriate to the destination device and which will result in the output content being delivered to the destination device which is compatible with and capable of being presented by the destination device .

The presentation context data may be retrieved from stored data in the datastore acquired from the destination device or from a combination of both. For example a device identifier associated with the destination device may be used to retrieve previously defined presentation context data about that destination device .

The presentation context data may include one or more of device characteristics content characteristics or user preferences . The device characteristics provide data indicative of the hardware and software environment available on the destination device . This data may include output hardware compatible content formats digital rights management DRM supported and other data V .

The output hardware data includes output hardware available for presentation on the destination device such as display resolution output display color capability information availability of hardware encoders decoders number of audio channels supported and so forth. The output hardware data is indicative of the media output capabilities of the destination device . For example the output hardware data may indicate that the destination device has a full color display which supports 1080p video data at 60 frames per second. Using this data the content processing module may ensure that compatible output content is delivered. For example the content processing module would avoid attempted presentation of content which is full motion color video on a black and white electrophoretic display with a redraw rate insufficient for video.

The compatible content format data comprises information about what formats are accepted by the destination device . For example this may include a listing of formats such as MPEG 2 MP3 H.264 and so forth. In some implementations information about unsupported formats may be provided. By using this information the content processing module may determine whether transcoding is called for and what output format to provide the output content in.

The DRM supported data indicates what if any digital rights management protocols are supported and enforced. For example the DRM supported data may indicate that the destination device is compliant with the Marlin DRM platform created by the Marlin Developer Community. This data may be used to determine whether the device supports the DRM required by the content provider. In some implementations the content processing module may provide transformation from a first DRM scheme which is incompatible with the destination device to a second DRM scheme which is compatible with the destination device .

Other data V may be provided such as input hardware which is supported by the destination device . For example some content such as games or interactive television may require input devices such as microphones touch sensors and so forth to properly present the content .

The content characteristics may include information indicative of the content content metadata presentation requirements and so forth. For example the content characteristics may indicate that the content comprises video with a multichannel audio track and is a cinematic release. The content processing module may use this information to process the input content such that the output content renders in the best possible fashion available on the destination device . Continuing the example the content processing module may apply psychoacoustic sound localization processing to the audio track to simulate multiple speakers from a single pair of speakers available on the destination device .

The user preferences indicate those presentation characteristics which the user has defined or accepted. The user preferences may include one or more of rating limitations presentation configuration preferences or other preferences P . The rating limitations may specify ratings such as those promulgated by the Motion Picture Association of America for which presentation is restricted. For example the user may set the rating limitation to not present content with a restricted R rating or higher.

The presentation configuration preferences indicate particular user settings such as audio equalizer settings color balance preferences and so forth. For example the user may configure the presentation configuration preferences such that when the content characteristics indicate the content to be presented is a cinematic release that cinematic image settings be selected on the destination device with the cinematic image settings comprising pre determined color balance and brightness settings.

Other user preferences P may also be specified. For example the user may specify that content which is to be rendered using a text to speech module should be provided with a contralto voice.

Block provides the mark data indicate of content which the user wishes to add to the consolidated content list data present on a destination device or both. For example the bookmarklet control may generate the mark data on the access device .

At the distribution server block requests the content from the content provider . In some implementations this request may include information indicative of the user account associated with the user which has initiated the mark data .

At the content provider server block provides the indicated content in a first format. For example the content provider server may deliver the content in the MPEG 4 format.

In some implementations the distribution server may use block to determine the presentation context data of the destination device . For example the distribution server may query the destination device to retrieve the presentation context data indicating that presentation of MPEG 2 formatted content is supported. In some implementation the order of blocks and may be reversed.

Block at the distribution server provides output content in a second format based at least in part on the presentation context data . For example the input content in the MPEG 4 format may be transcoded to the MPEG 2 format and sent to the destination device .

Block causes the destination device to present the output content . In some implementations instructions may be sent to the destination device which when executed by a processor of the destination device instruct the destination device to begin presentation of the output content . In a further implementation the destination device may be configured to present a prompt requesting user approval to present the output content . For example a display on the destination device may be configured to ask do you want to watch this content and accept input from a remote control. Responsive to receiving data indicative of acceptance the distribution server may provide the output content for presentation.

Block receives from a first device such as the access device data indicative of content available from the content provider for presentation. The access device may comprise a portable computing device such as a tablet computer smartphone laptop in vehicle entertainment system and so forth. For example the mark management module may receive the mark data from the access device . The data such as the mark data may be generated at least in part by a script executing on the access device . For example the bookmarklet control may utilize a bookmarklet script activated within a web browser engine executing on the access device to generate and send the mark data associated with the content . As described above the content may comprise one or more of audio data electronic book data video data or still image data.

Block determines a first format of the content as available from the content provider for presentation. For example the content processing module may determine the input content is in an MPEG 4 format. This determination may be made based in part on content metadata associated with the content an analysis of the content as delivered to the content processing module and so forth.

Block determines a presentation context of the destination device . As described above in one implementation the distribution server may send a request for presentation context data to the destination device and may then receive the requested presentation context data from the destination device. The presentation context data is described above in more detail with regard to .

As described also above in another implementation the distribution server may lookup presentation context data associated with the destination device . In this implementation the mark data generated at least in part by the script executing on the access device may include device identification data indicative of one or more of a manufacturer make or model of the access device . The presentation context data may be retrieved from a list of the one or more content formats compatible with presentation on the destination device based at least in part on the device identification data. Other presentation context data may be retrieved in this fashion as well.

In yet another implementation the mark data may include the presentation context data . For example the mark data may include one or more of the device characteristics the content characteristics or the user preferences .

Block determines a second format compatible for presentation of the content with a second or destination device . As described above the determination may be based at least in part on the presentation context data of the destination device . As also described above the presentation context data comprises information indicative of one or more content formats compatible with presentation on the destination device . The presentation context data may include information indicative of the one or more media output capabilities of the second device. For example that the destination device supports 1080p video with a hardware based MPEG 4 decoder.

Block receives at least a portion of the one or more pieces of content from the content provider in the first format. For example the distribution server may send a request for data using account information associated with the user account of the user which results in the content provider server sending the input content . This retrieval may be based at least in part on the device identification.

Block processes the one or more pieces of content into one or more pieces of output content based at least in part on the determined second format. For example the input content in the MPEG 4 format may be transcoded to the MPEG 2 format suitable for presentation on the destination device .

As describe above the processing may include transcoding the received at least a portion of the content from the first format into a second format compatible with the presentation context of the destination device . The processing may include the other operations discussed above including but not limited to transsrating transsizing decrypting and so forth.

In one implementation the processing may include determination of a portion of the content supported by the presentation context of the destination device . For example the presentation context data may indicate the destination device is capable of audio output. The processing may further determine a portion of the content unsupported by the presentation context of the destination device . For example the destination device may lack a display for presenting video output. The processing may then comprise modification of the output content to comprise the portion of the content supported by the presentation context while discarding the portion of the content unsupported by the presentation context. For example the output content may comprise only the audio portion of the content and omitting the video portion.

Block sends at least a portion of the processed output content to the destination device . For example the transcoded content in the second format may be sent using the network to the second destination device . In one implementation the mark data may include data indicative of the particular destination device s . In this implementation the sending may be based at least in part on the designation.

Block receives a request to process input content into output content for distribution to the destination device . Block determines the presentation context data of the destination device .

Block determines one or more output content formats associated with the presentation context data . In one implementation block may determine a plurality of available formats associated with the presentation context of the destination device . For example the destination device may be compatible with presenting content using the MPEG 4 format and a Proprietary X format.

Block determines based on one or more cost metrics a cost for processing at least a portion of the content into the one or more available formats. For example the content processing module may determine that there is a financial cost of 0.04 associated with providing the output content in the MPEG 4 output format and 0.27 associated with providing the output content in in the Proprietary X output format.

The cost metrics may include one or more of license fees associated with the processing estimated processor resources used for the processing current system load estimated memory usage for the processing DRM translation fees perceived quality of the output by the user fidelity of the processing and so forth. These costs may be assessed in monetary units such as dollars functional units such as number of processor cycles or bytes of memory consumed or a combination thereof.

Block selects the output format from the plurality of available formats based at least in part on the one or more cost metrics. In one implementation the format having the lowest cost may be selected. For example the MPEG 4 format may be selected due to the lower cost. Selection criteria may be designated globally across all users by groups of users or by individual users . For example the user may choose to have processing which always results in highest fidelity of content presented regardless of the cost while the user may choose to always have the least expensive.

Block processes the input content into the output content using the selected output format. The content processing module may generate the output content in the MPEG 4 format.

Block receives from the access device data indicative of content available from a content provider for presentation. For example the user may activate the bookmarklet control of the access device to generate mark data .

As described above the mark data may designate the destination device . This designation indicates what device the content provider server will be requested to transfer content to as described below.

Block determines a plurality of formats of the content as available from the content provider. For example the content provider may have available for distribution from the content provider server the content in the MPEG 2 and MPEG 4 formats.

Block determines the presentation context of the destination device . As described above the presentation context data is indicative of presentation capabilities of the destination device for presentation on the destination device .

Block selects a delivery format from the plurality of formats of the content as available from the content provider. The delivery format is selected which is operable with the presentation context of the destination device . For example where the destination device only supports the MPEG 2 format the MPEG 2 format would be selected for delivery.

Block initiates transfer of the content in the selected format between the content provider server and the destination device . In one implementation the initiation of transfer of the content may comprise sending to the content provider server data configured to initiate transmission of the content in the delivery format to the destination device . For example XML data may be provided indicating user account credentials associated with the user content identifier format requested and destination device address.

In another implementation the initiation of the transfer of the content may comprise sending the destination device data configured to initiate transmission of the content . This data may be configured to initiate the transmission in the desired delivery format from the content provider server to the destination device . For example a script or link may be provided to the destination device which when processed by a rendering engine establishes the connection with the designated content provider server and requests the content for presentation.

As described above with regard to the selection of the delivery format may be further based at least in part on one or more of available bandwidth between the destination device and the content provider server or financial costs associated with transferring the content using the plurality of available formats.

The operations and processes described and shown above may be carried out or performed in any suitable order as desired in various implementations. Additionally in certain implementations at least a portion of the operations may be carried out in parallel. Furthermore in certain implementations less than or more than the operations described may be performed.

Certain aspects of the disclosure are described above with reference to block and flow diagrams of systems methods apparatuses and or computer program products according to various implementations. It will be understood that one or more blocks of the block diagrams and flow diagrams and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and the flow diagrams respectively can be implemented by computer executable program instructions. Likewise some blocks of the block diagrams and flow diagrams may not necessarily need to be performed in the order presented or may not necessarily need to be performed at all according to some implementations.

These computer executable program instructions may be loaded onto a special purpose computer or other particular machine a processor or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a particular machine such that the instructions that execute on the computer processor or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing one or more functions specified in the flow diagram block or blocks. These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable storage media or memory that can direct a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable storage media produce an article of manufacture including instruction means that implement one or more functions specified in the flow diagram block or blocks. As an example certain implementations may provide for a computer program product comprising a computer readable storage medium having a computer readable program code or program instructions implemented therein said computer readable program code adapted to be executed to implement one or more functions specified in the flow diagram block or blocks. The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to cause a series of operational elements or steps to be performed on the computer or other programmable apparatus to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions that execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide elements or steps for implementing the functions specified in the flow diagram block or blocks.

Accordingly blocks of the block diagrams and flow diagrams support combinations of means for performing the specified functions combinations of elements or steps for performing the specified functions and program instruction means for performing the specified functions. It will also be understood that each block of the block diagrams and flow diagrams and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and flow diagrams can be implemented by special purpose hardware based computer systems that perform the specified functions elements or steps or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

Conditional language such as among others can could might or may unless specifically stated otherwise or otherwise understood within the context as used is generally intended to convey that certain implementations could include while other implementations do not include certain features elements and or operations. Thus such conditional language is not generally intended to imply that features elements and or operations are in any way required for one or more implementations or that one or more implementations necessarily include logic for deciding with or without user input or prompting whether these features elements and or operations are included or are to be performed in any particular implementation.

Many modifications and other implementations of the disclosure set forth herein will be apparent having the benefit of the teachings presented in the foregoing descriptions and the associated drawings. Therefore it is to be understood that the disclosure is not to be limited to the specific implementations disclosed and that modifications and other implementations are intended to be included within the scope of the appended claims. Although specific terms are employed herein they are used in a generic and descriptive sense only and not for purposes of limitation.

