---

title: Customizable vehicle fleet reporting system
abstract: Customization features for providing users with the ability to customize various aspects of a vehicle management system are described. These customization features can include functionality for generating custom reports based on vehicle parameters, including diagnostic codes. The customization features can also include features for customizing alerts based on vehicle parameters and features for customizing nomenclature in the vehicle management system.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09141266&OS=09141266&RS=09141266
owner: TELOGIS, INC.
number: 09141266
owner_city: Aliso Viejo
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121004
---
This application claims the benefit of priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 e of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 543 232 filed on Oct. 4 2011 entitled Vehicle Fleet Management System the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Specialized fleet management software is often used to manage fleets of vehicles such as trucks or taxis. Typical fleet management systems include functionality for mapping and tracking vehicles. Vehicle tracking is facilitated by communicating with tracking devices installed in vehicles which typically obtain location and speed information using a global positioning system GPS . The tracking devices can upload the location and speed information to the fleet management system. In turn the fleet management system generates a user interface accessible by a fleet administrator to determine vehicle locations routes speeds and so forth.

Some fleet management systems provide historical information about vehicle routes. Such historical information can include start and stop information vehicle locations at given times and speed information or the like. A fleet management system typically outputs this historical information in the form of a list. For example a fleet management system might provide a map display that includes symbols representing vehicles in a vehicle fleet and user selection of a vehicle symbol can cause a popup window to display a vehicle history list.

The systems and methods described herein can be implemented by a computer system including computer hardware. The computer system may include one or more physical computing devices which may be geographically dispersed or co located.

In certain embodiments a method of enabling users to customize a vehicle management system includes by a computer system comprising computer hardware outputting a custom report creation user interface for presentation to a user where the custom report creation user interface includes one or more user interface controls that can enable a user to create a custom report. The method may also include downloading from a vehicle management system a data set related to a vehicle fleet to a user computer as well as receiving a user selection of fields in the data set for inclusion in a custom report template. The method may further include receiving user layout details with respect to the selected fields where the user layout details can include information for organizing a layout of the selected fields in the custom report template. Moreover the method can include uploading the custom report template including the selected fields of the data set and the user layout details to the vehicle management system thereby enabling the custom report template to be used by the vehicle management system to run a custom report.

The method of the previous paragraph can also in some embodiments be used in combination with any subset of the following features where the data set comprises information regarding vehicle parameters where the vehicle parameters comprise diagnostic trouble codes obtained from engine computers of a plurality of vehicles in the vehicle fleet where the data set includes information regarding workflow in the vehicle fleet where the information regarding workflow comprises information related to vehicle routes and driver performance with respect to servicing the vehicle routes further including outputting a custom terminology user interface that provides functionality for a user to replace a fleet management term used in the vehicle management system with a custom term further including outputting a custom alert user interface that can provide functionality for the user to define a custom alert based on vehicle parameters obtained from telematics data and where the custom alert user interface further includes functionality for users to define the custom alerts to include conditional logic on multiple of the vehicle parameters.

In certain embodiments a system for enabling users to customize a vehicle management system can include a customization module having physical computer hardware. The customization module can output a custom report creation user interface for presentation to a user where the custom report creation user interface includes one or more user interface controls that can enable a user to create a custom report. The customization module can also download from a vehicle management system a data set related to a vehicle fleet to a user computer. The customization module can also receive a user selection of fields in the data set for inclusion in a custom report template. Further the customization module can also receive user layout details with respect to the selected fields where the user layout details include information for organizing a layout of the selected fields in the custom report template. Moreover the customization module can also upload the custom report template comprising the selected fields of the data set and the user layout details to the vehicle management system thereby enabling the custom report template to be used by the vehicle management system to run a custom report.

The system of the previous paragraph can also in some embodiments be used in combination with any subset of the following features where the data set comprises information regarding vehicle parameters where the vehicle parameters comprise diagnostic trouble codes obtained from engine computers of a plurality of vehicles in the vehicle fleet where the data set includes information regarding workflow in the vehicle fleet where the information regarding workflow comprises information related to vehicle routes and driver performance with respect to servicing the vehicle routes further including a custom terminology module that can output a custom terminology user interface that provides functionality for a user to replace a fleet management term used in the vehicle management system with a custom term further including a custom alert module that can output a custom alert user interface that can provide functionality for the user to define a custom alert based on vehicle parameters obtained from telematics data and where the custom alert user interface further includes functionality for users to define the custom alerts to include conditional logic on multiple of the vehicle parameters.

In various embodiments non transitory physical computer storage can include instructions stored thereon for implementing in one or more processors a method of enabling users to customize a vehicle management system. The method of the previous paragraph can also in some embodiments be used in combination with any subset of the following features where the data set comprises information regarding vehicle parameters where the vehicle parameters comprise diagnostic trouble codes obtained from engine computers of a plurality of vehicles in the vehicle fleet where the data set includes information regarding workflow in the vehicle fleet where the information regarding workflow comprises information related to vehicle routes and driver performance with respect to servicing the vehicle routes further including outputting a custom terminology user interface that provides functionality for a user to replace a fleet management term used in the vehicle management system with a custom term further including outputting a custom alert user interface that can provide functionality for the user to define a custom alert based on vehicle parameters obtained from telematics data and where the custom alert user interface further includes functionality for users to define the custom alerts to include conditional logic on multiple of the vehicle parameters.

The method of the previous paragraph can also in some embodiments be used in combination with any subset of the following features where the data set comprises information regarding vehicle parameters where the vehicle parameters comprise diagnostic trouble codes obtained from engine computers of a plurality of vehicles in the vehicle fleet where the data set includes information regarding workflow in the vehicle fleet where the information regarding workflow comprises information related to vehicle routes and driver performance with respect to servicing the vehicle routes further including outputting a custom terminology user interface that provides functionality for a user to replace a fleet management term used in the vehicle management system with a custom term further including outputting a custom alert user interface that can provide functionality for the user to define a custom alert based on vehicle parameters obtained from telematics data and where the custom alert user interface further includes functionality for users to define the custom alerts to include conditional logic on multiple of the vehicle parameters.

Certain aspects advantages and novel features of the inventions are described herein. It is to be understood that not necessarily all such advantages may be achieved in accordance with any particular embodiment of the inventions disclosed herein. Thus the inventions disclosed herein may be embodied or carried out in a manner that achieves or selects one advantage or group of advantages as taught herein without necessarily achieving other advantages as may be taught or suggested herein.

This disclosure describes customization features for providing users with the ability to customize various aspects of a vehicle management system. In certain embodiments these customization features can include functionality for generating custom reports based on vehicle parameters including diagnostic codes. The customization features can also include features for customizing alerts based on vehicle parameters and features for customizing nomenclature in the vehicle management system.

The features described herein may also be implemented for non fleet vehicles such as for personal vehicles having in vehicle navigation systems. In addition the features described herein may also be implemented for assets generally such as vehicles heavy equipment trailers site equipment and so forth. However for ease of illustration the remainder of this disclosure will describe vehicle management systems in the context of vehicle fleets such as fleets of service vehicles trucks taxis planes boats snow mobiles emergency vehicles other vehicles and the like.

In the computing environment one or more in vehicle devices and management devices communicate with the vehicle management system over a network . The in vehicle devices can include computing devices installed in fleet vehicles. These devices can include navigation functionality routing functionality and the like. The in vehicle devices can receive route information and other information from the vehicle management system . In addition the in vehicle devices can report information to the vehicle management system such as driver location vehicle sensor data vehicle status e.g. maintenance tire pressure or the like and so forth.

The illustrated network may be a LAN a WAN the Internet combinations of the same or the like. For ease of illustration the vehicle management system has been depicted as a centralized system or platform. However in other implementations at least some of the functionality of the vehicle management system is implemented in other devices or in multiple servers or data centers. For example the vehicle management system can be implemented as software as a service SaaS in the cloud and may be located in multiple data centers around the world or portion thereof . Other possible implementations of the vehicle management system can include many more or fewer components than those shown in .

The management devices can be computing devices used by dispatchers fleet managers administrators or other users to manage different aspects of the vehicle management system . For example a user of a management device can access the vehicle management system to generate routes dispatch vehicles and drivers and perform other individual vehicle or fleet management functions. With the management devices users can access and monitor vehicle information obtained from one or more of the in vehicle devices by the vehicle management system . Such vehicle status information can include data on vehicle routes used stops speed vehicle feature usage such as power takeoff device usage driver behavior and performance vehicle emissions vehicle maintenance energy usage and the like. In some embodiments the management devices are in fixed locations such as at a dispatch center. The management devices can also be used by administrators in the field and may include mobile devices laptops tablets smartphones personal digital assistants PDAs desktops or the like.

The vehicle management system can be implemented by one or more physical computing devices such as servers. These servers can be physically co located or can be geographically separate for example in different data centers. In one embodiment the vehicle management system is implemented as a cloud computing application. For instance the vehicle management system can be a cloud implemented platform hosted in one or more virtual servers and or physical servers accessible to users over the Internet or other network . In the depicted embodiment the vehicle management system includes a fleet management module a mapping module a telematics module not shown a routing module a dispatch module and an integration module . These components can but need not be integrated together on a common software or hardware platform.

The fleet management module can include functionality for generating rendering or otherwise displaying one or more vehicle management user interfaces. The vehicle management user interfaces can include a map or list of vehicles that depicts symbols or other data representative of vehicles. In addition the vehicle management user interfaces can advantageously include a history timeline display. For example in response to user selection of one or more of the vehicle symbols from the map or list the vehicle management user interface can output one or more vehicle history timelines corresponding to the selected vehicle or vehicles. Although the fleet management module generates the user interface in certain embodiments the fleet management module outputs the user interface to the management devices which actually display the user interface and associated history timeline display . Thus as used herein the terms output a user interface for presentation to a user presenting a user interface to a user and the like in addition to having their ordinary meaning can also mean among other things transmitting user interface information over a network such that a user device can actually display the user interface.

The fleet management module can communicate with the mapping module to obtain mapping data which the fleet management module can include in the vehicle management user interface. The mapping data can be compressed transmitted re rendered and displayed on the management user interface. Other data can also be overlaid to enhance the map and management layout. The mapping module can be a geographic information system GIS in one embodiment. The fleet management module can also access a telematics module not shown to obtain vehicle status data for inclusion in vehicle history displays. The telematics module can provide this vehicle status data based on telematics data obtained from the in vehicle devices . The telematics data can include such data as location or speed information obtained using GPS or cellular tower triangulation or other methods vehicle sensor data solid state inertial information or any other data that can be obtained from a vehicle its engine or the like including other sensors such as passenger seat sensors to detect the presence of passengers and so forth .

The routing module can construct pre dispatch or post dispatch routes for vehicles based on any of a variety of routing algorithms such as those disclosed in U.S. Publication No. 2010 0153005 filed Dec. 8 2009 and entitled System and Method for Efficient Routing on a Network in the Presence of Multiple Edge Restrictions and Other Constraints the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. In addition the routing module can automatically select routes that take into account factors that affect energy usage using the techniques described in U.S. application Ser. No. 12 954 547 filed Nov. 24 2010 and entitled Vehicle Route Selection Based on Energy Usage the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The integration module can facilitate integration of the vehicle management system with other systems such as fuel card systems payroll systems supply chain system insurance systems and the like. The dispatch module can provide functionality for users of the management devices to assign drivers and vehicles to routes selected by the routing module .

In the depicted embodiment the vehicle management system includes a custom reports module . The custom reports module can allow users such as users of the management devices to create reports defined by the specific data elements most applicable to their fleet and work. As described above the vehicle management system can obtain a significant amount of telematics data from the in vehicle devices . While much of this data is valuable to many if not all organizations that use the services of the vehicle management system not all of this data may be relevant to every organization. The custom reports module can allow users such as fleet administrators and managers to define the data elements they want to see from the telematics data and to organize this data in such a way that is most logical for their fleet operations. In certain embodiments because the vehicle management system is implemented in the cloud e.g. as described below the custom reports module may be able to create custom reports in real time or near real time such as within a few seconds moments or minutes from a request for a custom report.

Thus due to the large computing capacity that is used by the vehicle management system in certain embodiments the custom reports module can allow for massive reports to be built in run and real time without delays or without substantial delays for example on data obtained from hundreds or even thousands of vehicles. A customization module in the management device can communicate with the custom reports module over the network to create these custom reports as will be described in greater detail below with respect to .

In the depicted embodiment the vehicle management system also includes terminology module . The terminology module can allow users to change terms and wording throughout the vehicle management system to match a company s internal nomenclature. Almost every organization has its own jargon and terminology. The terminology module can allow a user such as a user of the management device to rename key terms to match internal terminology. For example a user might redefine a term such as driver to be field technician or a term like Van to be Regional Route or the like.

Also shown in the vehicle management system is a custom alerts module . The custom alerts module can allow users such as users of the management devices to define alerts or alarms based on any and all parameters that exist in the vehicle management system . For instance when a vehicle s windshield wipers are turned on an alert can be sent to a fleet manager that it is currently raining at the vehicle s location. Very flexible alerts can be customized and built to combine multiple parameters in a single alert and customizable actions and recommendations can be given based on the custom alerts. As an example one alert may be defined to be created or triggered when a driver is speeding when it is raining. Thus unlike in previous systems where a user might be alerted simply to speeding the custom alerts module can combine the fact that a user is speeding with another data input such as raining to determine whether to issue an alert or alarm. Further when such an alert or alarm is issued the custom alerts module can automatically instruct the driver via a communication to the in vehicle device to reduce the driver s speed limit by a certain specified amount. This specified amount can be a parameter that is part of the custom alert as determined by a user of the management device . For example a user of the management device when setting up the alert can specify a parameter that the speed limit should be reduced when raining by ten miles per hour below the speed limit or the like. Thus the custom alert module can automatically provide this suggestion to reduce the speed limit by ten miles per hour or the like to the in vehicle device in response to the appropriate alert being triggered.

Turning to an embodiment of a custom report creation process is shown. The custom report creation process may be implemented by the vehicle management system or by any other computing system comprising one or more machines. In one particular embodiment the custom report creation process can be implemented in part by the custom reports module and or customization module of . Advantageously in certain embodiments the custom report creation process enables a user such as a fleet manager to create a custom report on any one or more parameters collected by the vehicle management system .

At block the custom reports module outputs a custom report creation user interface. An example of this user interface is described below see e.g. . In general the custom report creation user interface can include one or more user interface controls that enable a user to initiate the creation of a new custom report from an existing template or from a new template. The customization module can also implement block in some embodiments by outputting a custom report user interface on the management device .

At block the customization module of the management device downloads one or more fleet data sets from the vehicle management system to the management device. When custom report creation is initiated the custom reports module can make available one or more data sets to the customization module that include data for example about drivers or about vehicles or about points of interest in a region serviced by a fleet among other examples. Downloading the one or more fleet data sets can enable the customization module and the user thereof to examine fields in the data that the user may wish to build a report on. The customization module can output a user interface that enables a user to select these fields. An example of such a user interface is described in greater detail below with respect to .

At block the customization module receives a user selection of fields in the data set or data sets for inclusion in a custom report template. The custom report template can be used to create multiple custom reports. At block the customization module receives a user layout selection with respect to the selected fields. The layout selection can govern the way that the fields and their values are depicted on a display and can include functional placement elements as well as aesthetic placement elements.

At block the customization module uploads the custom template including the selected fields and layout selection to the vehicle management system . A report can then be run using the custom template by a user of the vehicle management system . An example process for creating such a report is described below with respect to .

In an example custom report generation process is shown. Like the process of the custom report generation process can be implemented by the vehicle management system . In one embodiment for example the process is implemented by the custom reports module . However the process can be implemented by any computing device or the like.

At block of the process the custom reports module receives a user selection of a custom report template. The custom report template may have been created using the features of the process described above with respect to . The custom reports module may for instance provide a user interface that outputs a menu of custom templates from which a user may select. These templates may be arranged categorically hierarchically alphabetically or the like.

At block the custom reports module can receive a user selection of a timeframe for the report. The timeframe can specify a timeframe for which data has been gathered and which will be reported on in the report such as the past day the past hour the past week the past month the past year and so forth. There may be some reports for which providing a timeframe may be optional or not used at all. For example a report may be constructed to report all VIN numbers of all vehicles in the fleet and may or may not specify a timeframe with such a report.

At block the custom reports module accesses data corresponding to the custom fields in the custom report template for the specified timeframe. The vehicle management system may include one or more databases or data stores not shown which can store the custom fields as well as the data in those fields and can retrieve the data in response to a request from the custom reports module . The custom reports module can then populate a report with the retrieved data based on the custom layout of the template at block . And at block the custom reports modules can provide this report to the user. Providing the report to the user can include for example outputting the report on a user interface such as providing the report over the network to the management device . The customization module can then output the report for example in a browser in a PDF document a Microsoft Word document or other type of document or application program. Providing the report to the user can also include instead of directly displaying the report providing an electronic communication that includes the report such as an electronic mail or e mail or providing a link to the report to the user in an electronic message combinations of the same or the like.

Turning to an example embodiment of a custom terminology definition process is shown. The process can also be implemented by the vehicle management system . For example the terminology module of the vehicle management system can implement the process . The custom terminology definition process may also be implemented by any computing device and can provide functionality for renaming nomenclature in the vehicle management system to suit company s needs and goals. In an embodiment the custom terminology definition process can enable renaming of nomenclature in various aspects of the vehicle management system including e.g. user interfaces a database and in other data as well as in information depicted in the in vehicle devices .

At block the terminology module outputs a user interface that provides functionality for renaming fleet management terms. The user interface can be accessed by the management device over the network . The user interface may include user interface controls that enable a user to select a fleet management term and provide a replacement for the term. Thus continuing with the process at block the terminology module receives a user selection of a fleet management term such as driver or van or the like.

At block the terminology module receives a custom name from the user for the fleet management term which can be used to replace the fleet management term in some or all instances where that fleet management term is included in the vehicle management system . At block the terminology module associates the custom name with the fleet management term and physical computer storage. In some embodiments this block can include searching and replacing the original term with the new term in a database of the vehicle management system .

Turning to an embodiment of a custom alert creation process is shown. The custom alert creation process may be implemented by the vehicle management system . In particular in an embodiment the process is implemented by the custom alerts module . The process may also be implemented by any computing device. In an embodiment the custom alert creation process facilitates creating alert templates that can later be invoked or instantiated to assign alerts that can be used to detect conditions in a vehicle fleet that are noteworthy and or that deserve further attention from a fleet administrator or other user.

At block the custom alerts module outputs a user interface that provides functionality for a user to create a custom alert. The user interface may include any of a variety of user interface controls that enable a user to select parameters that the user wishes to use as custom criteria for generating alerts. As a simple example in one instance the user interface can enable a user to create an alert that triggers when a user is speeding for a certain period of time and can provide the alert to a fleet administrator for example on a display of the management device . However advantageously in certain embodiments the custom alert creation process can provide more flexible and complex alerts and alert creation capability. For example the custom alerts module can provide for combining parameters using conditionals boolean logic or the like to come up with alerts that are highly customized to a user s business. As one example a user may wish to determine whether a vehicle is moving and a seatbelt is unbuckled. A user can specify that these parameters should be monitored by the custom alerts module . The custom alerts module can obtain the telematics data obtained by the vehicle management system corresponding to sensor data in the vehicle that indicates whether the vehicle is moving and the seatbelt is unbuckled and if both conditions are met can trigger an alert or alarm.

As another example a user may be able to specify that when a particular diagnostic trouble code DTC obtained from the engine computer e.g. via an OBDII or CAN interface is firing and a vehicle leaves a headquarters then an alert can be sent to tell the driver to return to the headquarters. For example if the DTC code is a code that could reflect a serious problem to the vehicle and it is known that the vehicle is moving it can be useful to alert the driver and or fleet manager to the problem.

In another embodiment the user interface includes functionality for users to write scripts that can implement the conditionals boolean logic or other logic as described above. Thus for example at block a user may write a custom alerts script using an application programming interface API provided by the custom alerts module . Alternatively the provider of the vehicle management system can write the custom alerts script and provide custom alerts scripts to users for execution and or customization. Example custom alerts scripts are described in greater detail below.

At block the custom alerts module receives a user specified parameter or parameters to associate with the custom alert. These parameters can involve some action or value associated with an action to be taken when an alert fires. For example referring to the example above where a diagnostic trouble code is firing and a vehicle has just left the headquarters a parameter that specifies an action to be taken upon this alert can be to issue an electronic message to the driver via for example the in vehicle device that requests the driver to return to headquarters as soon as possible. Referring to the rain example described above where an alert can be generated if a user is speeding in the rain an example of a parameter that could be provided as an output associated with the alert is to inform the driver via the in vehicle device the driver should reduce his speed by a certain amount such as ten miles per hour .

At block the custom alerts module stores the custom alerts script and parameters in physical computer storage. The parameters may be optional in one embodiment and a default action may be taken if an alert is provided. The custom alerts script can be like a template as described above stored in the physical computer storage and may be available to be run and optionally further customized at a later stage.

Turning to an example custom alert process is shown that can also be implemented by the custom alerts module or any other computing device. At block the custom alerts module receives a user request to create an instance of a custom alert that was previously created for example using the process of described above. The custom alert to be instantiated may be stored as a template in physical computer storage such as a database or the like.

At block the custom alerts module receives custom parameters from the user for the custom alert. These custom parameters can include values for the actions specified in the parameter template of the custom alert as described above. At block the vehicle management system can monitor telematics data to determine whether a condition exists in the telematics data such as speeding in the rain that triggers the alert. For example the vehicle management system can gather the data and the custom alerts module can examine some or all of the data to determine whether an alert should be triggered. If a condition of the alert has triggered or has occurred as determined in decision block then the custom alerts module outputs an alert to notify the user that the condition has been triggered. The condition of the alert can be triggered by a vehicle parameter or other parameter going outside of a range specified by the alert by a threshold being met or exceeded or the like. This alert output can include instructions related to the parameters described above such as to slow down return to the headquarters or the like. If the alert condition is not triggered at block the process loops back to block and continues to monitor the data until an alert condition is detected.

Referring specifically to these user interfaces through may be implemented by the custom reports module and or customization module as will be described in greater detail below. The user interfaces through represent example custom report creation user interfaces and the user interface of depicts an example custom report.

Turning to in the user interface a menu bar of controls is shown that enables a user to start creating a custom report. These controls include an upload button that allows a user to upload a custom template create it on the user s management device or directly by the custom reports module . The controls in the menu bar further include a download button that can be selected by a user to download a data set to the user s computer to start creating a custom report. Options delete button and a run button as well as an export report data button are also included in the controls of the menu bar . An example report is also listed and could be selected by a user to run the report using the run button in the menu bar .

If the user were to select the download button in the menu bar the user would be presented with the user interface of or the like. The user interface includes a pop up window that depicts various data sources or data sets that may be chosen by a user. A user can choose one or more data sets to download to the user computer. These data sets as described above can include data from any period of time that has been collected including telematics data driver behavior data vehicle data and so forth vehicle event data diagnostic data and also alert data. Downloading such data can enable a user to select fields in the data to add to a custom report.

Turning to the user interface is an example report creation user interface that can be output by the customization module . The user interface includes a report layout area that allows a user to lay out various data elements for a custom report. These data elements can be organized according to bands or rows and a band user interface control can allow a user to define the bands adjust their height width and so forth. The data elements are shown in the frame and can be selected from a set of fields in a downloaded data set in a data window . These data sets can be mined by the customization module from the data downloaded with respect to . For example the data sets in the pane can include fields obtained from the telematics data in the downloaded data set and a user can drag and drop these fields onto the report to cause the report to populate these fields with relevant data when the report is run.

A user can adjust the properties of the parameters using a properties window . Each parameter can include one or more properties that can allow the user to specify both values operations and the like to be associated with those parameters as well as visual layout and aesthetic properties to be applied to those parameters. Once a user has created the custom report template using the user interface the user can upload the template to the custom reports module using the user interface shown in . The user interface includes a custom templates tab including an upload control that allows a user to upload the custom report and subsequently execute that report. An example of such a report is shown in . The example report shown includes graphics and data formatted in rows and columns. Other example report formats can include comma delimited reports e.g. .csv files text files HTML files and the like.

A textbox pane in shows some uses of the original term in the vehicle management system . In this example the term is driver. A current replacements pane is also shown which can include a list of replaced words and their previous terms. This pane is empty in the example embodiment but once a replacement term is created using the control such terms can be displayed in the pane and can subsequently be edited or deleted using controls . If the user were to select the replaced term button the user could be presented with a pop up window as shown in that allows a user to type in a replacement term in a textbox and save the replacement term using the save control .

Turning to another example parameter user interface is shown that allows a user to edit parameters of an alert using various user interface controls . These parameters include the name of the control or parameter whether it is a diagnostic parameter whether to activate or be aggressive with the parameter the time to trigger the parameter the severity of the parameter and a color to associate with the severity of the parameter among other features.

Similar to the user interface in includes rows to list diagnostic trouble codes and yellow alert and red alert areas and of the display to indicate the severity of the alert.

In some embodiments alerts can be used to develop a driver scorecard. More particularly in certain embodiments alerts on driver or vehicle behavior can be used to create a score for a driver. For example a driver who speeds more for example as indicated by a number of speeding alerts may have a lower score than other drivers who speed less or who get fewer speeding alerts. Multiple alerts can be evaluated on different parameters to develop the driver score or scorecard. The alerts can therefore be used as data to derive key performance indicators KPI on drivers.

The custom alerts module can alert on data other than vehicle parameters in some embodiments. For instance the custom alerts module can enable alerts to be created on user workflows routing schedules and the like. The information regarding workflow can include information related to vehicle routes and driver performance with respect to servicing the vehicle routes. Some examples of such alerts can include alerts on when a driver deviates from a route and alerts for when a driver is running late for a job. These alerts can be derived from the vehicle parameter data together with workflow data in some instances. More detailed examples of such workflow data from which alerts may be derived are described in U.S. application Ser. No. 13 623 834 filed Sep. 20 2012 titled Vehicle Fleet Work Order Management System the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Although various user interfaces have been described herein any subset of these user interfaces can be considered to be a single user interface with multiple displays.

Many other variations than those described herein will be apparent from this disclosure. For example depending on the embodiment certain acts events or functions of any of the algorithms described herein can be performed in a different sequence can be added merged or left out all together e.g. not all described acts or events are necessary for the practice of the algorithms . Moreover in certain embodiments acts or events can be performed concurrently e.g. through multi threaded processing interrupt processing or multiple processors or processor cores or on other parallel architectures rather than sequentially. In addition different tasks or processes can be performed by different machines and or computing systems that can function together.

Many of the operations of the presentation analysis service are sufficiently mathematically or technically complex that one or more computing devices may be necessary to carry them out. Thus the various illustrative logical blocks modules and algorithm steps described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein can be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks modules and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. The described functionality can be implemented in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the disclosure.

The various illustrative logical blocks and modules described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein can be implemented or performed by a machine such as a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor can be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor can be a controller microcontroller or state machine combinations of the same or the like. A processor can also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration. Although described herein primarily with respect to digital technology a processor may also include primarily analog components. For example any of the signal processing algorithms described herein may be implemented in analog circuitry. A computing environment can include any type of computer system including but not limited to a computer system based on a microprocessor a mainframe computer a digital signal processor a portable computing device a personal organizer a device controller and a computational engine within an appliance to name a few.

The steps of a method process or algorithm described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein can be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module can reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of non transitory computer readable storage medium media or physical computer storage known in the art. An example storage medium can be coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium can be integral to the processor. The processor and the storage medium can reside in an ASIC. The ASIC can reside in a user terminal. In the alternative the processor and the storage medium can reside as discrete components in a user terminal.

Conditional language used herein such as among others can might may e.g. and the like unless specifically stated otherwise or otherwise understood within the context as used is generally intended to convey that certain embodiments include while other embodiments do not include certain features elements and or states. Thus such conditional language is not generally intended to imply that features elements and or states are in any way required for one or more embodiments or that one or more embodiments necessarily include logic for deciding with or without author input or prompting whether these features elements and or states are included or are to be performed in any particular embodiment. The terms comprising including having and the like are synonymous and are used inclusively in an open ended fashion and do not exclude additional elements features acts operations and so forth. Also the term or is used in its inclusive sense and not in its exclusive sense so that when used for example to connect a list of elements the term or means one some or all of the elements in the list. Further the term each as used herein in addition to having its ordinary meaning can mean any subset of a set of elements to which the term each is applied.

While the above detailed description has shown described and pointed out novel features as applied to various embodiments it will be understood that various omissions substitutions and changes in the form and details of the devices or algorithms illustrated can be made without departing from the spirit of the disclosure. As will be recognized certain embodiments of the inventions described herein can be embodied within a form that does not provide all of the features and benefits set forth herein as some features can be used or practiced separately from others.

