---

title: Recovery stabilizing pole
abstract: A recovery stabilizing pole includes a tube having a passageway formed therethrough, and a handle pivotally joined to the tube. A fixed claw member and a hinged claw member are joined to a distal end of the tube, the hinged claw member being capable of pivoting with respect to the fixed claw member. One end of a cable is joined to the handle and the other is joined to the hinged jaw member. Increased tension in the cable causes pivoting of the hinged jaw member with respect to the fixed jaw member. Embodiments include an adjustment means at the distal end of the tube for angling the claw members with respect to the tube and different tensioning means for the cable.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08783746&OS=08783746&RS=08783746
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 08783746
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120928
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefore.

The present invention relates to a device that assists in the removal of an object from the water. More particularly the present invention relates to a recovery stabilizing pole that assists in stabilizing an underwater vehicle such as a torpedo so as to attach a snap ring to the nose of the vehicle allowing the vehicle to be placed on a recovery vessel.

During the testing and evaluation phases related to the underwater vehicles such as vehicles operating in the water there remains a need to facilitate the retrieval of the vehicle onto a recovery vessel. Currently when the vehicle comes to the surface after its mission the vehicle floats to the surface and bobs in the water until it can be retrieved. The recovery vessel comes alongside the vehicle and a person tries to attach a snap ring with a rope to the nose ring of the vehicle. This attachment effort is time consuming as well as being costly because the recovery vessel can be damaged by the vehicle hitting against it especially during high sea states. Typically this problem occurs most often with 21 inch vehicles used typically by the United States Navy however it may also occur when utilizing smaller or larger diameter vehicles. There remains a need to provide a device that assists in reducing the time effort and damage involved in retrieving a vehicle in the water into a recovery vessel.

Accordingly it is an object of the present invention to provide a device that would assist in stabilizing a vehicle so as to attach a snap ring to the nose of the vehicle and thereby allow the vehicle to be more quickly and more safely placed into the recovery vessel.

It is another object of the present invention to provide a device that can be used in an exigent situation when the vehicle is too close to the recovery vessel allowing the vehicle to be pushed away from the vessel.

In accordance with one embodiment of the present invention a device is provided which allows the retrieval team onboard the recovery vessel to hold onto the nose ring of the vehicle facilitating the placement of the vehicle into the recovery vessel. The apparatus includes a tubular member having a proximate end a distal end with a first opening and a first passageway formed therein. A handle is pivotally connected to near the proximate end of the tubular member. The handle has a second passageway formed therein. One end of the second passageway leads to the first passageway of tubular member. First and second claw members are connected at the distal end of the tubular member. The second claw member is hingedly connected to the first claw member. Each of the first and second claw members has an opening formed therein. The apparatus further includes a tension member connecting the first end of the handle to the second claw member such that movement of the handle causes movement of the second claw member.

Referring now to the drawings and more particularly to there is illustrated some of the elements and operations grouped by reference number involved in the retrieval of a vehicle . The vehicle has a streamer A and a nose portion which in turn has a collar with a retrieval aperture A formed therein. Retrieval aperture A is provided in collar in order to allow for a snap ring to be placed into the aperture A while the vehicle is in the water .

The recovery stabilizing pole includes an extended tube having an inner passageway extending therethrough. Tube is preferably made from a light weight metal and with a typical length in a range from about eight to nine feet. Tube can be a solid member not having a passageway but with external retaining members. Tube has a proximate end a distal end and preferably a grip positioned on proximate end .

The recovery stabilizing pole further includes a handle . A grip is positioned on a distal end of handle . A proximate end of handle is joined to tube by a pivot means . Pivot means allows the handle to pivot toward the tube upon the application of pressure to the handle . Pivot means can include a cam member and pin which cooperatively operate to apply tension to a flexible tension member affixed to handle at a mounting location . Pin is optional and serves as a bearing to redirect flexible tension member through passageway . A proximate aperture is formed in tube near the handle mounting means and communicating with passageway . A distal aperture communicating with passageway is formed in distal end of pole .

Flexible tension member operatively connects the handle to the hinged claw member . Flexible tension member or cable can be any flexible member capable of supporting a tensile load. This can be an aramid fiber metal cable or the like. Cable should not stretch significantly when subjected to the planned tensile load and should be corrosion resistant in a marine environment. Preferably flexible tension member or cable is made from one quarter inch stainless steel wire rope. The cable extends from mounting means around cam through the proximate aperture into the passageway and around pin . Cable further extends down the passageway and out of the distal aperture at the distal end of the tube . The cable leaves aperture and enters an opening formed in fixed claw member . After passing through opening cable is affixed to a mounting location on hinged claw member . As described a tensile force on cable causes hinged claw member to pivot inwardly.

A floatation member can be affixed to tube . Floatation member can be a cylindrical member that is dimensioned so as to correspond to the outer diameter of the tube . Floatation member can be positioned to prevent pole from sinking if it is inadvertently dropped or it can be designed to support pole during use. If floatation member is designed to support pole during use it can have an extended floatation structure near the anticipated waterline of recovery stabilizing pole .

The recovery stabilizing pole can further include adjustment means to be further described hereinafter with reference to . Adjustment means provides for the movement of the claw members and in a direction reducing or increasing the angle between claw members and and tube as shown in B and C.

The recovery stabilizing pole may be further described with reference to showing the claw members in an open or non engaged position A. illustrates the cable as exiting opening and extending to location on the hinged claw member where the cable is affixed thereto by appropriate means such as by knotting or welding. The recovery stabilizing pole preferably further comprises an elastomeric strip connected to the hinged claw member by means such as screws or adhesive means A. Elastomeric material for strip is typically nylon or the like. The strip operates to protect the vehicle being retrieved from any damage that may be caused by interaction thereof with cable . The hinged claw member further preferably has a resilient coating whereas the fixed claw member has a resilient coating both coatings and being provided so as to prevent any sliding of the vehicle from the recovery stabilizing pole in a manner to be further described with reference to . Resilient coatings and are preferably natural or artificial rubber. The hinged claw member is moveable relative to fixed claw member by means of a conventional hinge to be further described hereinafter with reference to . The operation provided in part by hinge of the recovery stabilizing pole may be further described with simultaneous reference to B C and and with illustrating a closed or engaged position B.

With reference to it is apparent that as the handle is pressed toward the tubular member the cable as most clearly seen in pulls by the operation of hinge most clearly shown in the hinged claw member toward the fixed claw member as most clearly seen in thus providing a closed or engaged position B. The spacing between the hinged claw member and fixed claw member in the closed or engaged position B is selected or dimensioned so as to correspond to the outer diameter of the nose of the vehicle . The recovery stabilizing pole may be further described with reference to which is a side view thereof.

As seen in unlike the handle has been moved so as to apply pressure to pivotally move the handle toward the tubular member thereby causing cable to pull the moveable hinged claw member toward the fixed claw member so as to establish the closed or engaged position B previously described with reference to . The operation of the recovery stabilizing pole may be further described with reference to .

In there is shown an alternate embodiment having an alternate version of elastomeric strip shown as and resilient coating . Elastomeric strip is fixed to fixed claw member at . Elastomeric strip extends toward hinged claw member to protect cable from interference with a vehicle being recovered. Resilient coating covers less of member to allow mounting of strip .

As a variation either or both handle and tubular member could be made from a solid material without having a passageway formed therein. In this variation tabs having eyes therethrough could be attached at periodic places along tubular member and handle to serve as guides for cable .

It should now be appreciated that the practice of the present invention provides a recovery stabilizing pole which stabilizes a floating and bobbing vehicle so as to allow the slip ring not shown of the recovery system to be more easily attached to the nose in particular aperture A of the vehicle . The present invention reduces the time consumed in the retrieval process of the vehicle in the water while at the same time preventing the recovery vessel from being damaged by the vehicle especially during high sea state conditions with the vehicle rapidly bobbing up and down.

It will be understood that many additional changes in details materials steps and arrangement of parts which have been herein described and illustrated in order to explain the nature of the invention may be made by those skilled in the art within the principle and scope of the expressed in the appended claims.

