---

title: North-finding using inertial navigation system
abstract: A true north heading is determined by using gyroscopes of differing accuracy and orienting a gyroscope of a higher accuracy to a direction that is more sensitive to azimuth change (e.g., an east/west direction). A gyroscope with a lower accuracy is placed perpendicular to the gyroscope with a higher accuracy and can be oriented towards a north or south direction. The gyroscopes may be placed on a rotatable platform to properly orient the gyroscopes. The higher-accuracy gyroscope may be implemented by using multiple gyroscopes oriented in the same direction.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09217639&OS=09217639&RS=09217639
owner: Moog Inc.
number: 09217639
owner_city: East Aurora
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120320
---
This invention was made with government support under Contract No. W15P7T 08 D P416 awarded by the U.S. Department of Defense. The government has certain rights in the invention.

The present disclosure relates to determining the orientation of a targeting platform and or the navigation heading of a vehicle. More specifically the present disclosure relates to inertial north finding systems.

In a variety of applications the orientation of a platform or the direction of travel of a vehicle i.e. the heading is used to point orient or guide the platform or the vehicle. Some conventional systems measure the heading using a floating magnetic compass or strap down magnetic vector sensor both of which measure the Earth s magnetic field. Other conventional navigation systems use the global navigation satellite systems GNSS such as the Global Positioning System GPS Galileo or GLONASS. The accuracy of these conventional navigation systems is however influenced by various factors including for example signal strength or local variations in magnetic field.

Gyroscope based navigation systems may also be used to determine a heading of a vehicle. These systems use the Earth s rotational rate vector as a reference to directly determine the heading of the vehicle. Because measurement of the Earth s rotational rate vector is unaffected by local magnetic fields satellite signal strength or other confounding influences gyroscope based navigation systems and methods can be a reliable method for determining the heading of a object. However using gyroscopes having the accuracy needed for navigation such as ring laser gyroscopes RLG or fiber optic gyroscopes FOG can be expensive.

Embodiments relate to determining a true north heading by using gyroscopes of different accuracies and orienting a gyroscope of a higher accuracy to a direction that is more sensitive to azimuth change e.g. in east west direction . A gyroscope with a lower accuracy is placed perpendicular to the gyroscope with a higher accuracy and can be oriented approximately in a north south direction. The gyroscopes may be placed and rotated on a platform to properly orient the gyroscopes.

The higher accuracy gyroscope may be implemented by using multiple gyroscopes oriented in the same direction. The measurement error of the multiple gyroscopes can be identified and or calculated and removed from the gyroscope measurements. In some embodiments this error correction can be accomplished when the source of the measurement error is uncorrelated between the multiple gyroscopes.

The Figures FIG. and the following description relate to preferred embodiments of the present invention by way of illustration only. It should be noted from the following discussion that alternative embodiments of the structures and methods disclosed herein will be readily recognized as viable alternatives that may be employed without departing from the principles of the claimed invention.

Reference will now be made in detail to several embodiments of the present invention s examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying figures. It is noted that wherever practicable similar or like reference numbers may be used in the figures and may indicate similar or like functionality. The figures depict embodiments of the present invention for purposes of illustration only.

Embodiments of the present disclosure relate to determining a true north heading or orientation with respect to true north by using gyroscopes of different accuracies and orienting a gyroscope of a higher accuracy to a direction that is more sensitive to azimuth change e.g. in the east west direction . In one embodiment a gyroscope with a lower accuracy is placed perpendicular to the gyroscope with a higher accuracy and can be oriented approximately in a north south direction. The gyroscopes may be placed and rotated on a platform to properly orient the gyroscopes. The higher accuracy gyroscope may be implemented by using multiple gyroscopes oriented in the same direction. In another embodiment the true north heading or orientation with respect to true north can be determined by roughly orienting a gyroscope from approximately 0 to approximately 30 from true north and then using the gyroscope to determine a more precise heading or orientation.

A gyroscope as described herein refers to a sensor or a device for measuring angular rotation of a body about a predetermined axis. The gyroscope may include for example a microelectromechanical systems MEMS gyroscope a ring laser gyroscope RLG or fiber optic gyroscope FOG or a conventional mechanical gyroscope. The accuracy of the gyroscope can depend on the type or structure of the gyroscopes used.

A vehicle described herein refers to a body that can travel from one point to another point. Types of vehicles can include land transport vehicles water going vessels and air vehicles. Some vehicles can be self propelled. Example of vehicles can include but are not limited to an automobile a truck a tank or mobile artillery unit a remote or autonomously controlled robot e.g. the Mars Rover or a mobile terrestrial robot other manned or un manned ground vehicles an airplane a helicopter a missile or other un manned projectile an unmanned airplane a spacecraft an ocean going ship a ship mounted artillery unit or a drilling platform.

While a vehicle is used throughout the present disclosure for illustration purposes embodiments herein are equally applicable for determining the spatial orientation with respect to true north of stationary objects such as a targeting platform. The targeting platform described herein refers to a platform which provides an azimuth and attitude reference. Types of targeting platforms can include optical targeting systems weapon targeting devices orientation references for construction and or survey applications personal handheld targeting modules and other applications in which heading determination is useful.

The embodiment of the sensor array depicted in includes a z axis gyroscope an x axis gyroscope a y axis gyroscope in one embodiment formed from two or more gyroscopes A through N that collectively operate as a single higher accuracy gyroscope accelerometers and temperatures sensors . In some embodiments only the y axis gyroscope is needed for north finding. The x axis y axis and z axis are defined in this example by the body frame of the vehicle illustrated in relationship to the vehicle in as a North East Down reference frame . In this embodiment the y axis gyroscope has a higher accuracy compared to the x axis gyroscope . For this purpose the y axis gyroscope may be of a different type of gyroscope than the x axis gyroscope or may be multiple gyroscopes operating collectively for a higher accuracy.

In some embodiments the sensors and take measurements at a frequency of about 1000 Hz. Furthermore the presence of the z axis gyroscope is optionally included in the system and used for determination of vehicle yaw. As with the gyroscopes A and B the accelerometers can be of any type.

When multiple gyroscopes A through N operate as a single y axis gyroscope the gyroscopes A through N are all aligned along the y axis of the body frame of the vehicle . As mentioned above two or more gyroscopes aligned in the same direction can be used collectively to improve the accuracy of the measurements in that direction. The mathematical tools underpinning this improvement will be explained in more detail in the context of . Furthermore the accuracy of the north finding function of the system can be improved when the gyroscope is aligned with the east west direction as explained in the context of .

The temperature sensors measure the temperature of the various sensors of the sensor array and of the components of the data module . These temperature measurements are then provided to a data sampling module or alternatively directly to a processor in order to correct for temperature related measurement artifacts. For example if the system is used in an aircraft at a high altitude the extremely low temperatures at this altitude may introduce error into measurements through for example changes in physical dimensions physical properties and or electrical properties of the sensors. By using the temperature sensors to measure the ambient temperatures whether inside the vehicle outside the vehicle or within the sensor array or within the components thereof the measurements provided by the sensors of the sensor array can be corrected.

The rotary stage assembly is used to align the y axis gyroscope connected to a rotary stage with the east west direction. As explained in more detail below aligning the y axis gyroscope in this manner improves the north finding function of the system . The rotary stage assembly may include among other components the rotary stage a rotary stage motor a controller and an encoder . In the example shown in only the components of the sensor array are disposed on the rotary stage although other components from the data module such a data sampling module may also reside on the rotary stage .

In this embodiment the rotary stage is rotated by the motor . The motor can include one or more servo motors stepper motors or other types of motors known in the art for articulating a rotary stage. Furthermore mechanisms other than those described above can be used to orient the rotary stage . For example pneumatic actuators or hydraulic cylinders may be used to move the rotary stage . Further the movement of the rotary stage need not be one of pure rotation. That is the movement of the rotary stage may be a combination of linear motion and rotational motion.

In this embodiment the motor is controlled by the controller . The controller receives a signal from the encoder which determines the current rotational angle of the rotary stage . Using a signal from the encoder and optionally a signal from the processor that identifies the current orientation of the y axis gyroscope the controller can rotate the rotary stage by sending a signal to the motor so as to properly orient the gyroscopes .

As part of the alignment process the encoder generates a signal that identifies the rotational angle of the rotary stage that is in turn communicated to the controller . This signal can then be used to orient the rotary stage and any sensors thereon with for example the east west direction. In one embodiment a feedback control loop may be implemented using the controller and the encoder to more accurately control the rotational angle of the rotary platform . While the encoder is shown here other sensors may also be employed to measure rotation and or linear motion of the rotary stage .

Continuing with data from the sensor array and from the encoder are provided to the data module . The data module collects corrects and processes the information in preparation for presentation to a user whether a human or a machine client of the system . In this embodiment the data module includes a data sampling module and the processor . In some embodiments the temperature sensors may be disposed in the data module instead of within the sensor array . The data sampling module periodically receives measurements from the sensors of the sensor array . In this embodiment the data sampling module can receive data provided by these various data sources as well as retrieve the data by periodically soliciting the data sources for new data. In some embodiments the data sampling module can receive data at a frequency of about 100 Hz. Also in this embodiment the data sampling module is an A D converter that converts analog signals provided by the data sources into digital signals in preparation for processing at the processor . In one embodiment the data sampling module is capable of 24 bit quantization or higher resolution. In another embodiment the data sampling module is connected to the processor via a serial peripheral interface bus.

In other embodiments the data sampling module is unnecessary because data from the gyroscopes e.g. the gyroscopes the accelerometers the encoder the temperature sensors and any other data sources are provided as digital signals directly to the processor . Alternatively the signals are provided as analog signals but are converted to digital signals within the processor .

Continuing with the embodiment depicted in the data sampling module provides the measurement data taken by the sensors of the sensor array to the processor . The processor is a hardware component for executing computer instructions. The processor may be embodied for example as a digital signal processor DSP or as another type of processor. The processor performs various operations on the data the operations including but not limited to providing sensor calibrations and corrections executing navigation algorithms and communicating navigation state information to a user through a communication interface . In one embodiment the processor includes a non transitory computer readable memory not shown that can store one or more of calibration data device and system configuration data sensor data and executable code. In one embodiment the processor is capable of 64 bit floating computation to compute a precise navigation state using complex algorithms.

After performing all some or none of the above described operations the processor provides the processed sensor measurements including the true north heading calculated by the processor according to the example method shown in to the communications interface . The communications interface conveys the processed data to a user system which can be accessed by a human user or a client device. Additionally the communications interface can also be configured to receive input from the user system . For example navigation instructions data correction time synchronization messages and location information such as latitude can be communicated to the system using the user system . The user system can be for example a general purpose computer a mobile communications device a specially adapted computer or any other device used to communicate with a computer system such as that embodied by the system .

Furthermore the communications interface can optionally receive input from a GNSS receiver . Receiving input from the GNSS receiver provides position and time information to the processor which can be used to determine the starting location of the vehicle as an input to the north finding algorithm. Alternatively input from the GNSS receiver can be used throughout execution of the north finding process and or algorithm as part of an error checking and or correction method.

In one embodiment the inertial north finding system described above is implemented in a rugged enclosure that includes some or all of the components described above. In one embodiment the system has a compact arrangement achieved through the use of small gyroscopes e.g. MEMS devices . In another embodiment the system is implemented on a general purpose computer that is coupled with the rotary stage assembly and the sensor array .

Embodiments of system may use multiple lower accuracy gyroscopes aligned in the same direction and process signals from these gyroscopes to obtain a signal of higher accuracy. When the source of gyroscope noise is uncorrelated between the y axis and x axis gyroscopes and the error measurements of the two gyroscopes respectively are reduced by using multiple gyroscopes oriented along an axis in this embodiment along the y axis. For example the noise level attributable to a single gyroscope is described by Equation 1.

It is the application of Equation 2 to the embodiments of the present disclosure that contributes to the improved north finding accuracy of arrays of multiple aligned gyroscopes. That is the accuracy of the system as a whole can be improved by using multiple gyroscopes even gyroscopes individually having a lower accuracy.

When using multiple gyroscopes the signals are received by the data sampling module and their average value is computed. A weighted average method may also be applied if the gyroscopes have different accuracies. As mentioned above this improvement can be used alone or in combination with aligning the gyroscopes with the east west direction.

As described above it is advantageous to align the y axis gyroscope of the north finding system in the east west direction to improve the accuracy of the system. As illustrated in the sensitivity of a gyroscope to changes in the azimuth is significantly improved when the gyroscope is aligned in the east west direction because a change in angle in this orientation causes a larger change of the Earth Rotation Vector measurement compared to non east west direction orientations. Because of this the gyroscope error which remains approximately constant regardless of gyroscope orientation makes a proportionately smaller contribution to the gyroscope measurement.

These signals are preprocessed to remove and or reduce the measurement errors. The preprocessing includes noise filtering bias and scale factor compensation and thermal error compensation. These preprocessed signals are used to determine the earth rotation vector and the gravity vector expressed in the body frame using a Kalman filter or other stochastic estimation methods as described in more detail below.

The preprocessed signals are compensated or otherwise adjusted for error. The noise models for estimating gyroscope error and accelerometer error are used in the Kalman filter or other stochastic estimation methods.

The calculations and or measurements described above can be compensated for measurement error by reapplying the above described error calculations . Also the rotary stage can be used to correct for gyroscopic error e.g. drift and accelerometer bias using a method described for example in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 579 879 entitled Heading Determination Using Sensors Mounted on Rotatable Assembly filed on Oct. 15 2009 which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

In these contexts the body frame attitude can be determined in terms of the ERV and the GV as measured by the gyroscopes and and accelerometer of the sensor array . One tool for accomplishing this is Equation 3 a direction cosine matrix DCM . The DCM can be derived from the ERV and the GV according to Equations 4 through 7.

The ERV in the NED frame is calculated according to Equation 6 using the measurements from the gyroscopes of the system .

where is the ERV in the body frame which is measured by the gyroscopes and or is the angular rate of the vehicle and is the ERV according to Equation 6. The value of Equation 3 can be calculated using Equation 8 with a known that is calculated from Equation 5.

Local longitude latitude and or timing information can optionally be received from a GNSS receiver in order to improve some or all of the foregoing calculations. In some embodiments as described below receiving this information enables true north estimation in a single iteration of the process . In still further embodiments receiving this information enables determining true north using the ERV and GV.

The Euler angles e.g. azimuth pitch and roll in this case are estimated using the equations 10 to 13.

where ris the earth rotation rate and is the latitude. When the azimuth is near 0 or near 180 that is the y axis gyroscope is oriented in the east west direction the azimuth can be estimated using Equation 15. This equation shows that the accuracy of the azimuth calculation is dependent on the accuracy of the y axis gyroscope . Therefore in some embodiments an accurate y axis gyroscope is used as described above to improve the azimuth calculation.

Once the azimuth is estimated the east west direction can be estimated and the rotary stage can rotate the gyroscopes of the sensor array to align with the east west direction. This process can optionally be repeated to improve the accuracy of the estimation and bring the y axis gyroscope sensing axis closer to east west direction to fully use the sensitivity of the gyroscope. However as described below this repetition is not required.

In some embodiments particularly when initially orienting the system within approximately 0 to 30 of true north only a single iteration of the above process need be used. In some examples of this embodiment this initial orientation can be accomplished by using the sunrise the sunset the moonrise or moonset astral alignment magnetic compass or other means of approximately orienting the system with true north. In these embodiments because of the initial orientation of the system only a single gyroscope is needed.

While particular embodiments and applications have been illustrated and described it is to be understood that the disclosed embodiments are not limited to the precise construction and components disclosed herein. Various modifications changes and variations which will be apparent to those skilled in the art may be made in the arrangement operation and details of the method and apparatus disclosed herein without departing from the spirit and scope defined in the appended claims.

