---

title: Service-based access for enterprise private network devices to service provider network services
abstract: A system is configured to receive, from an enterprise device, a request to access a network domain, and is configured to determine whether the network domain is associated with a wireless service provider service. Based on determining that the network domain is not associated with the wireless service provider service, the system is configured to route the request to a private network associated with the enterprise device. Based on determining that the network domain is associated with the wireless service provider service, the system is configured to route the request to a domain name system server associated with the wireless service provider, receive a domain name system response to the request, the domain name system response identifying a network address, and route the domain name system response to the enterprise device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08498626&OS=08498626&RS=08498626
owner: Verizon Patent and Licensing Inc.
number: 08498626
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121210
---
A wireless service provider may provide access to a private network of an enterprise such as an enterprise local area network LAN . Enterprise devices e.g. smart phones of enterprise employees may use the wireless service provider s network to access the enterprise network. An enterprise administrator may control services devices and websites that may be accessed by the enterprise devices.

The following detailed description of example implementations refers to the accompanying drawings. The same reference numbers in different drawings may identify the same or similar elements.

A wireless service provider WSP may provide access to a private network of an enterprise such as an enterprise local area network. Enterprise devices e.g. mobile devices such as smart phones of enterprise employees may use the wireless service provider network to access the enterprise network. However services offered by the wireless service provider may be inaccessible by the enterprise devices because the enterprise network may be incapable of routing packets back to the wireless service provider network. Implementations described herein provide a means for enterprise devices to access services provided via the wireless service provider network.

The term enterprise as used herein is intended to be broadly construed to include a business an organization a government agency an enterprise device a related group of users and or devices etc.

As further shown in the enterprise device may request a WSP service provided by the WSP server. The request may be received by the WSP gateway routed by the WSP gateway to the WSP router and routed by the WSP router to the enterprise router. The WSP gateway and WSP router may automatically e.g. by default route all traffic received from the enterprise device to the enterprise network via the enterprise router. The enterprise router may be unable to route the request for the WSP service back to the WSP network. Thus the WSP server may not be capable of providing the WSP service to the enterprise device.

As shown in rather than automatically routing all traffic received from the enterprise device to the enterprise router the WSP gateway and WSP router may analyze incoming requests from the enterprise device to determine whether the request is for a WSP service. When the request is for the WSP service the WSP gateway and WSP router may cooperate to route the request to a WSP server that provides the WSP service. Thus the enterprise device may receive services offered by the WSP server.

Enterprise device may include a device capable of accessing enterprise network via WSP network . For example enterprise device may include a mobile computing device e.g. a laptop computer a tablet computer a handheld computer a smart phone a radiotelephone a gaming device an automatic teller machine etc. or a similar device. In some implementations enterprise device may include a device capable of accessing a wireless network e.g. WSP network via base station e.g. via an air interface . Additionally or alternatively enterprise device may be registered and or authenticated for access to enterprise network .

Base station may include one or more devices that receive process and or transmit traffic such as audio video text and or other data destined for and or received from enterprise device . In some implementations base station may include an evolved node B eNB associated with a long term evolution LTE network that receives traffic from and or sends traffic to WSP network e.g. via a packet data network gateway and or a serving gateway . Additionally or alternatively one or more base stations may be associated with a radio access network that is not associated with the LTE network. Base station may send traffic to and or receive traffic from user device via an air interface.

WSP network may include a wireless network capable of transmitting traffic between enterprise device and enterprise network . For example WSP network may transmit traffic to and or receive traffic from enterprise device via base station . Additionally or alternatively WSP network may transmit traffic to and or receive traffic from enterprise network via WSP router . WSP network may include for example a cellular network a public land mobile network PLMN a radio access network RAN an LTE network a second generation 2G network a third generation 3G network a fourth generation 4G network a fifth generation 5G network and or another type of wireless network or a combination of wired and wireless networks. In some implementations WSP network may include an evolved packet system that includes an LTE network and or an evolved packet core that operate based on a third generation partnership project 3GPP wireless communication standard.

Enterprise network may include one or more wired and or wireless private networks. For example enterprise network may include a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a metropolitan area network MAN an intranet and or another type of private network.

WSP gateway may include one or more traffic transfer devices. For example WSP gateway may include a gateway a router a switch a firewall a hub a bridge a modem a network interface card an optical add drop multiplexer a server e.g. a virtual server a proxy server etc. and or another device capable of transmitting receiving transferring and or processing network traffic. In some implementations WSP gateway may receive traffic from and or transmit traffic to base station WSP DNS server and or WSP router .

WSP DNS server may include one or more server devices or similar devices. In some implementations WSP DNS server may receive a DNS query for a WSP service from enterprise device and may respond to the DNS query by transmitting a network address to enterprise device . In some implementations base station and or WSP gateway may route the request and or the response between enterprise device and WSP DNS server .

WSP router may include one or more traffic transfer devices. For example WSP router may include a router a switch a firewall a hub a bridge a gateway a modem a network interface card an optical add drop multiplexer a server e.g. a virtual server a proxy server etc. and or another device capable of transmitting receiving transferring and or processing network traffic. In some implementations WSP router may include an edge device e.g. an edge router that transfers and or translates information via a secure connection between WSP network and enterprise network . Additionally or alternatively WSP router may receive traffic from and or transmit traffic to WSP gateway WSP server third party router and or enterprise router . In some implementations WSP router may transfer traffic to and or from an internet gateway that provides internet access not shown .

WSP server may include one or more server devices or similar devices. In some implementations WSP server may provide WSP services e.g. voice services location services text messaging services voicemail services network application programming interface services etc. to devices with access to WSP network . For example WSP server may receive a request for a WSP service from enterprise device and may respond to the request by providing the WSP service to enterprise device . In some implementations base station WSP gateway and or WSP router may route the request and or the response between enterprise device and WSP server .

Third party router may include one or more traffic transfer devices. For example third party router may include a router a switch a firewall a hub a bridge a gateway a modem a network interface card an optical add drop multiplexer a server e.g. a virtual server a proxy server etc. and or another device capable of transmitting receiving transferring and or processing network traffic. In some implementations third party router may include an edge device e.g. an edge router that transfers and or translates information between WSP network and a third party network not illustrated . Additionally or alternatively third party router may receive traffic from and or transmit traffic to WSP router and or third party server .

Third party server may include one or more server devices or similar devices. In some implementations third party server may provide third party services e.g. mapping services search services social media services etc. to devices with access to a third party network not illustrated . For example third party server may receive a request for a third party service from enterprise device and may respond to the request by providing the third party service to enterprise device . In some implementations base station WSP gateway WSP router and or third party router may route the request and or the response between enterprise device and third party server .

Enterprise router may include one or more traffic transfer devices. For example enterprise router may include a router a switch a firewall a hub a bridge a gateway a modem a network interface card an optical add drop multiplexer a server e.g. a virtual server a proxy server etc. and or another device capable of transmitting receiving transferring and or processing network traffic. In some implementations enterprise router may include an edge device e.g. an edge router that transfers and or translates information between enterprise network and WSP network . Additionally or alternatively enterprise router may receive traffic from and or transmit traffic to WSP router enterprise DNS server and or enterprise server . In some implementations enterprise router may transfer traffic to and or from an internet gateway that provides internet access not shown .

Enterprise DNS server may include one or more server devices or similar devices. In some implementations enterprise DNS server may receive a DNS query for an enterprise service from enterprise device and may respond to the DNS query by transmitting a network address to enterprise device . In some implementations base station WSP gateway WSP router and or enterprise router may route the request and or the response between enterprise device and enterprise DNS server .

Enterprise server may include one or more server devices or similar devices. In some implementations enterprise server may provide enterprise services e.g. access to enterprise email human resources applications time reporting applications internal job search applications training applications access to information on an enterprise intranet such as product information enterprise processes or procedures etc. to devices with access to enterprise network e.g. enterprise devices . For example enterprise server may receive a request for an enterprise service from enterprise device and may respond to the request by providing the enterprise service to enterprise device . In some implementations base station WSP gateway WSP router and or enterprise router may route the request and or the response between enterprise device and enterprise server .

The number of devices and networks shown in is provided for explanatory purposes. In practice environment may include additional devices and or networks fewer devices and or networks different devices and or networks or differently arranged devices and or networks. Furthermore two or more devices shown in may be implemented within a single device or a single device shown in may be implemented as multiple distributed devices. Additionally one or more of the devices of environment may perform one or more functions described as being performed by another one or more devices of environment . Devices of environment may interconnect via wired connections wireless connections or a combination of wired and wireless connections.

Bus may include a path that permits communication among the components of device . Processor may include a processor e.g. a central processing unit a graphics processing unit an accelerated processing unit a microprocessor and or any processing logic e.g. a field programmable gate array FPGA an application specific integrated circuit ASIC etc. that interprets and or executes instructions. Memory may include a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM and or another type of dynamic or static storage device e.g. a flash magnetic or optical memory that stores information and or instructions for use by processor .

Input component may include a component that permits a user to input information to device e.g. a touch screen display a keyboard a keypad a mouse a button a switch etc. . Output component may include a component that outputs information from device e.g. a display a speaker one or more light emitting diodes LEDs etc. .

Communication interface may include a transceiver like component such as a transceiver and or a separate receiver and transmitter that enables device to communicate with other devices such as via a wired connection a wireless connection or a combination of wired and wireless connections. For example communication interface may include an Ethernet interface an optical interface a coaxial interface an infrared interface a radio frequency RF interface a universal serial bus USB interface or the like.

Device may perform various operations described herein. Device may perform these operations in response to processor executing software instructions included in a computer readable medium such as memory . A computer readable medium may be defined as a non transitory memory device. A memory device may include memory space within a single storage device or memory space spread across multiple storage devices.

Software instructions may be read into memory from another computer readable medium or from another device via communication interface . When executed software instructions stored in memory may cause processor to perform one or more processes described herein. Additionally or alternatively hardwired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to perform one or more processes described herein. Thus implementations described herein are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software.

The number of components shown in is provided for explanatory purposes. In practice device may include additional components fewer components different components or differently arranged components than those shown in . Additionally or alternatively each of enterprise device base station WSP gateway WSP DNS server WSP router WSP server third party router third party server enterprise router enterprise DNS server and or enterprise server may include one or more devices and or one or more components of device .

As shown in process may include receiving from an enterprise device a request to access a domain block . For example WSP gateway may receive a domain name system DNS query from enterprise device e.g. via base station . The DNS query may include information that identifies a domain e.g. a network domain . For example the DNS query may include information that identifies a domain name and or a uniform resource locator URL such as www.example.com or www.example.com website. WSP gateway may determine the domain e.g. the second level domain example based on the domain name and or the URL. In some implementations WSP gateway may determine a fully qualified domain name FQDN e.g. an FQDN assigned to a device and or to a WSP service a second level domain a third level domain and or any other domain level.

As further shown in process may include determining whether the domain is associated with a WSP service block . For example WSP gateway may determine whether the domain identifies and or is associated with a WSP domain and or a WSP service. In some implementations WSP gateway may access a data structure that indicates whether the domain is a WSP domain and or is associated with a WSP service. For example the data structure may include a list of WSP domains. WSP gateway may determine whether the domain identified in the received request is listed in the data structure to determine whether the domain is associated with a WSP service.

Additionally or alternatively the WSP service may include a third party service such as a service provided via third party server . WSP gateway may determine that the domain identifies and or is associated with a third party domain and or a third party service. In some implementations WSP gateway may access a data structure that indicates whether the domain identifies a third party domain and or is associated with a third party service. For example the data structure may include a list of third party domains. WSP gateway may determine whether the domain identified in the received request is listed in the data structure to determine whether the domain is associated with a third party service. The data structure that identifies third party domains may be the same or different from the data structure that identifies WSP domains. The information stored by the data structure s may be modified by a user and or a device.

If the domain is not associated with a WSP service block NO then process may include routing the request to the enterprise network block . For example if WSP gateway determines that the domain is not associated with a WSP service or a third party service then WSP gateway may route the request identifying the domain to WSP router . WSP router may route the request to enterprise router which may route the request to enterprise DNS server to respond to e.g. to resolve the request. Enterprise router may receive a response to the DNS query from enterprise DNS server and may route the response to enterprise device e.g. via WSP router WSP gateway and or base station .

If the domain is associated with a WSP service block YES then process may include routing the request to a DNS server associated with the WSP network block and transmitting to the enterprise device a DNS response to the request block . For example if WSP gateway determines that the domain is associated with a WSP service then WSP gateway may route the request identifying the domain to WSP DNS server . WSP DNS server may respond to e.g. may resolve the request. For example WSP DNS server may receive a DNS query may determine a network address e.g. an IP address associated with the DNS query and may transmit a DNS response that identifies the network address to WSP gateway . WSP gateway may transmit the DNS response to enterprise device e.g. via base station . The network address may identify a destination device to provide the WSP service requested by enterprise device . For example the network address may identify WSP server .

Additionally or alternatively the WSP service may include a third party service such as a service provided via third party server . If WSP gateway determines that the domain is associated with a third party service then WSP gateway may route the request identifying the domain to WSP DNS server . WSP DNS server may respond to the request by transmitting a DNS response that identifies a network address associated with the request to enterprise device e.g. via WSP gateway and or base station . In some implementations the network address may identify third party server .

While a series of blocks has been described with regard to the blocks and or the order of the blocks may be modified in some implementations. Additionally or alternatively non dependent blocks may be performed in parallel.

As shown by reference number enterprise device may transmit and WSP gateway may receive information that identifies a DNS query such as a request to access www.providerdomain.com. WSP gateway may determine a domain associated with the DNS query e.g. providerdomain . WSP gateway may determine whether the domain is stored in a data structure that stores domains associated with WSP services. For example as shown by reference number WSP gateway may determine that providerdomain is a WSP domain e.g. is associated with a WSP service .

Based on determining that providerdomain is a WSP domain WSP gateway may transmit information that identifies the DNS query to WSP DNS server . For example as shown by reference number WSP gateway may transmit information that identifies the domain providerdomain to WSP DNS server . WSP DNS server may access a data structure to determine a network address e.g. an IP address associated with the DNS query. For example as shown by reference number WSP DNS server may determine that an IP address 201.64.2.102 identifies a destination device e.g. WSP server that provides the WSP service associated with the domain providerdomain. As shown by reference number WSP DNS server may transmit a DNS response that identifies the network address 201.64.2.102 to enterprise device e.g. via WSP gateway . Enterprise device may transmit a request for a WSP service that includes the network address. For example enterprise device may transmit to WSP gateway and via base station a packet that identifies the network address as described herein in connection with .

As shown in process may include receiving from an enterprise device a packet that identifies a network address block . For example WSP router may receive a packet identifying a network address from enterprise device e.g. via base station and or WSP gateway . The network address may include a network address identified in a DNS response transmitted to enterprise device e.g. discussed herein in connection with . For example the network address may include an IP address.

As further shown in process may include determining whether the network address identifies a destination associated with a WSP service block . For example WSP router may determine whether the network address identifies and or is associated with a WSP service and or a destination in the WSP network such as WSP server . In some implementations WSP router may access a data structure that indicates whether the network address identifies a WSP device e.g. a device in WSP network such as WSP server . For example the data structure may include a list of WSP devices and associated network addresses of the WSP devices. WSP router may determine whether the network address identified in the received packet is listed in the data structure to determine whether the network address is associated with a WSP service. In some implementations WSP router may determine whether the network address identifies a destination associated with a WSP service based on a subnet identified by the network address.

Additionally or alternatively the WSP service may include a third party service such as a service provided via third party server . WSP router may determine whether the network address identifies and or is associated with a third party service and or a destination in a third party network such as third party server . In some implementations WSP router may access a data structure that indicates whether the network address identifies a third party device e.g. a device in the third party network such as third party server . For example the data structure may include a list of third party devices and associated network addresses of the third party devices. WSP router may determine whether the network address identified in the received packet is listed in the data structure to determine whether the network address is associated with a third party service. The data structure that identifies third party devices may be the same or different from the data structure that identifies WSP devices. The information stored by the data structure s may be modified by a user and or a device.

If the network address is not associated with a WSP service block NO then process may include routing the packet to the enterprise network block . For example if WSP router determines that the network address is not associated with a WSP service or a third party service then WSP router may route the packet identifying the network address to enterprise router which may route the packet to enterprise server to transmit a packet response e.g. a packet acknowledgement a service provided in response to the packet etc. associated with the packet. Enterprise router may receive the packet response and may route the packet response to enterprise device e.g. via WSP router WSP gateway and or base station .

If the network address is associated with a WSP service block YES then process may include routing the packet to a WSP server identified by the network address block and transmitting to the enterprise device a packet response associated with the packet block . For example if WSP router determines that the network address is associated with a WSP service then WSP router may route the packet identifying the network address to WSP server identified by the network address. WSP server may transmit a packet response associated with the packet to enterprise device e.g. via WSP router WSP gateway and or base station . The packet response may include a packet acknowledgement a response associated with information requested by enterprise device that transmitted the packet a response that provides the WSP service requested by enterprise device and or another response associated with the packet received by WSP server .

Additionally or alternatively the WSP service may include a third party service such as a service provided via third party server . If WSP router determines that the network address is associated with a third party service then WSP gateway may route the packet identifying the network address to third party router which may route the packet to third party server identified by the network address. Third party server may transmit a packet response associated with the packet to enterprise device e.g. via third party router WSP router WSP gateway and or base station .

While a series of blocks has been described with regard to the blocks and or the order of the blocks may be modified in some implementations. Additionally or alternatively non dependent blocks may be performed in parallel.

As shown by reference number enterprise device may transmit and WSP gateway may receive a packet that identifies a network address such as the IP address 201.64.2.102. As shown by reference number WSP gateway may route the packet to WSP router . WSP router may determine a destination associated with the network address. WSP router may determine whether the network address is stored in a data structure that stores network addresses associated with WSP services. For example as shown by reference number WSP router may determine that 201.64.2.102 identifies WSP server which is associated with WSP network and provides a WSP service.

Based on determining that the network address 201.64.2.102 identifies a WSP device e.g. a device in WSP network WSP router may transmit the packet to the identified device. For example WSP router may determine that the network address 201.64.2.102 identifies WSP server as a destination and WSP router may route the packet to WSP server as shown by reference number . As shown by reference number WSP server may transmit a response associated with the packet to enterprise device e.g. via WSP router and or WSP gateway .

As shown by reference number call flow may include transmitting by enterprise device and to WSP gateway a DNS query associated with a WSP service. As shown by reference number call flow may include determining by WSP gateway that the DNS query is associated with a WSP domain. As shown by reference number call flow may include transmitting by WSP gateway and to WSP DNS server the DNS query. As shown by reference number call flow may include transmitting by WSP DNS server and to enterprise device via WSP gateway an IP address that identifies WSP server that provides the WSP service identified by the DNS query.

As shown by reference number call flow may include transmitting by enterprise device and to WSP gateway a packet identifying the IP address received by enterprise device from WSP DNS server via WSP gateway . As shown by reference number call flow may include transmitting by WSP gateway and to WSP router the packet identifying the IP address. As shown by reference number call flow may include determining by WSP router a particular WSP server identified by the IP address. As shown by reference number call flow may include transmitting by WSP router and to the particular WSP server the packet. As shown by reference number call flow may include transmitting by the particular WSP server and to enterprise device via WSP router and WSP gateway a WSP service response associated with the packet.

The foregoing disclosure provides illustration and description but is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the implementations to the precise form disclosed. Modifications and variations are possible in light of the above disclosure or may be acquired from practice of the implementations.

As used herein the term component is intended to be broadly construed as hardware firmware or a combination of hardware and software.

It will be apparent that systems and or methods as described herein may be implemented in many different forms of software firmware and hardware in the implementations illustrated in the figures. The actual software code or specialized control hardware used to implement these systems and or methods is not limiting of the implementations. Thus the operation and behavior of the systems and or methods were described without reference to the specific software code it being understood that software and control hardware can be designed to implement the systems and or methods based on the description herein.

Even though particular combinations of features are recited in the claims and or disclosed in the specification these combinations are not intended to limit the disclosure of possible implementations. In fact many of these features may be combined in ways not specifically recited in the claims and or disclosed in the specification. Although each dependent claim listed below may directly depend on only one claim the disclosure of possible implementations includes each dependent claim in combination with every other claim in the claim set.

No element act or instruction used herein should be construed as critical or essential unless explicitly described as such. Also as used herein the articles a and an are intended to include one or more items and may be used interchangeably with one or more. Where only one item is intended the term one or similar language is used. Further the phrase based on is intended to mean based at least in part on unless explicitly stated otherwise.

