---

title: Barrier for a lens
abstract: Described is a lens for a camera, the camera having a flash and an image sensor, the lens comprising a flash portion for covering the flash; an image sensor portion for covering the image sensor; and a barrier between the image sensor portion and the flash portion.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09641734&OS=09641734&RS=09641734
owner: BlackBerry Limited
number: 09641734
owner_city: Waterloo, Ontario
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20121109
---
The present disclosure relates to electronic devices having cameras and more particularly to electronic devices having cameras with lenses.

Electronic devices such as smartphones and tablet computers are sometimes equipped with cameras. Cameras may be used to allow a user to capture a video or a still photograph. Flashes are often used with cameras in order to illuminate a subject for capture by the cameras. Light emanating from such flashes can cause interference or crosstalk with the camera s image sensor.

According to an aspect described is a lens for a camera the camera having a flash and an image sensor the lens comprising a flash portion for covering the flash an image sensor portion for covering the image sensor and a barrier between the image sensor portion and the flash portion.

According to another aspect described is an electronic device comprising an image sensor a flash adjacent to the image sensor a lens having an image sensor portion covering the image sensor and a flash portion covering the flash a barrier attached to the lens between the image sensor portion and the flash portion for inhibiting the passage of light from the flash portion to the image sensor portion and a housing for housing the image sensor and the flash.

According to another aspect described is a method for making a lens for a camera the lens having a barrier to inhibit light from passing between a flash portion of the lens and an image sensor portion of the lens the method comprising heating plastic to melt the plastic placing the plastic in a mold the mold for shaping the plastic into a lens having a flash portion for covering a flash of a camera and an image sensor portion for covering an image sensor of the camera inserting a barrier into the mold such that the barrier is positioned between the flash portion and the image sensor portion and cooling the plastic.

Other example embodiments of the present disclosure will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art from a review of the following detailed descriptions in conjunction with the drawings.

Referring first to a front view of an example electronic device is illustrated. The electronic device can be a mobile phone portable computer smartphone tablet computer personal digital assistant a wearable computer such as a watch a television a digital camera or a computer system for example. The electronic device may be of a form apart from those specifically listed above.

The electronic device includes one or more cameras . The cameras are configured to generate camera data such as images in the form of still photographs and or motion video. The camera data may be captured in the form of an electronic signal which is produced by an image sensor associated with the camera . Components other than the image sensor may be associated with the camera although such other components are not shown in the Figures. More particularly the image sensor not shown is configured to produce an electronic signal in dependence on received light. That is the image sensor converts an optical image into an electronic signal which may be output from the image sensor by way of one or more electrical connectors associated with the image sensor. The electronic signal represents electronic image data which may also be referred to as camera data .

In the embodiment illustrated the electronic device includes a rear facing camera . A rear facing camera is a camera which is located to obtain images of a subject near a rear face of the electronic device . That is the rear facing camera may be located on or near a rear face of the electronic device .

In other embodiments not illustrated the electronic device may include a front facing camera instead of or in addition to the rear facing camera. A front facing camera is a camera which is located to obtain images of a subject near the front face of the electronic device . That is the front facing camera may be generally located at or near a front face of the electronic device . The front facing camera may be located anywhere on the front surface of the electronic device for example the front facing camera may be located above or below the display . In at least some example embodiments the front facing camera may be provided in a central location relative to the display to facilitate image acquisition of a face. In at least some embodiments the front facing camera may be used for example to allow a user of the electronic device to engage in a video based chat with a user of another electronic device . In at least some embodiments the front facing camera is mounted internally within a housing of the electronic device beneath a region of the front face which transmits light. For example the front facing camera may be mounted beneath a clear portion of the housing such as a transparent lens which allows light to be transmitted to the internally mounted camera.

In at least some embodiments not shown the electronic device may include a front facing camera and also a rear facing camera. The rear facing camera may obtain images which are not within the field of view of the front facing camera. The fields of view of the front facing and rear facing cameras may generally be in opposing directions.

The electronic device includes a flash . The flash may in at least some embodiments be a light emitting diode LED flash. The flash emits electromagnetic radiation. More particularly the flash may be used to produce a brief bright light which may facilitate picture taking in low light conditions. That is the flash may emit light while an image is captured using the camera . In the embodiment illustrated the flash is located to emit light at the rear face of the electronic device . That is the flash is a rear facing flash in the illustrated embodiment. The electronic device may include a front facing flash instead of or in addition to the rear facing flash to emit light at the front face of the electronic device . The electronic device may have additional camera hardware which may complement the camera .

Still referring to a lens covers the image sensor of the camera and the flash . The lens allows light to pass though e.g. from the flash to the exterior of the housing or from the exterior of the housing to the image sensor and prevents debris or dirt from entering into the housing. Dirt or debris that could otherwise enter into the housing could potentially damage the components of the camera and flash . In the embodiment illustrated in the lens is secured to the housing. For example the lens may be secured to the housing an adhesive or using snaps or similar attachment mechanism in such a manner so as to be flush with the housing. The lens can be transparent and made out of plastic or another suitable transparent or translucent material. In the illustrated embodiment a barrier is in the lens between the flash and camera . The lens is described in more detail below.

Referring now to a block diagram of an example electronic device is illustrated. The electronic device of may include a housing which houses components of the electronic device . Internal components of the electronic device may be constructed on a printed circuit board PCB . The electronic device includes a controller including at least one processor such as a microprocessor which controls the overall operation of the electronic device . The processor interacts with device subsystems such as a wireless communication subsystem for exchanging radio frequency signals with a wireless network to perform communication functions. The processor interacts with additional device subsystems including one or more input interfaces such as a keyboard one or more control buttons one or more microphones one or more cameras and or a touch sensitive overlay associated with a touchscreen display flash memory random access memory RAM read only memory ROM auxiliary input output I O subsystems a data port which may be a serial data port such as a Universal Serial Bus USB data port one or more output interfaces such as a display which may be a liquid crystal display LCD a flash one or more speakers or other output interfaces a short range communication module and other device subsystems generally designated as . Some of the subsystems shown in perform communication related functions whereas other subsystems may provide resident or on device functions.

The electronic device may include a touchscreen display in some example embodiments. The touchscreen display may be constructed using a touch sensitive input surface connected to an electronic controller. The touch sensitive input surface overlays the display and may be referred to as a touch sensitive overlay. The touch sensitive overlay and the electronic controller provide a touch sensitive input interface and the processor interacts with the touch sensitive overlay via the electronic controller. That is the touchscreen display acts as both an input interface and an output interface .

The communication subsystem includes a receiver a transmitter and associated components such as one or more antenna elements and local oscillators LOs and a processing module such as a digital signal processor DSP . The antenna elements and may be embedded or internal to the electronic device and a single antenna may be shared by both receiver and transmitter as is known in the art. The particular design of the wireless communication subsystem depends on the wireless network in which the electronic device is intended to operate.

The electronic device may communicate with any one of a plurality of fixed transceiver base stations of the wireless network within its geographic coverage area. The electronic device may send and receive communication signals over the wireless network after the required network registration or activation procedures have been completed. Signals received by the antenna through the wireless network are input to the receiver which may perform such common receiver functions as signal amplification frequency down conversion filtering channel selection etc. as well as analog to digital A D conversion. A D conversion of a received signal allows more complex communication functions such as demodulation and decoding to be performed in the DSP . In a similar manner signals to be transmitted are processed including modulation and encoding for example by the DSP . These DSP processed signals are input to the transmitter for digital to analog D A conversion frequency up conversion filtering amplification and transmission to the wireless network via the antenna . The DSP not only processes communication signals but may also provide for receiver and transmitter control. For example the gains applied to communication signals in the receiver and the transmitter may be adaptively controlled through automatic gain control algorithms implemented in the DSP .

In some example embodiments the auxiliary input output I O subsystems may include an external communication link or interface for example an Ethernet connection. The electronic device may include other wireless communication interfaces for communicating with other types of wireless networks for example a wireless network such as an orthogonal frequency division multiplexed OFDM network.

In some example embodiments the electronic device also includes a removable memory module typically including flash memory and a memory module interface . Network access may be associated with a subscriber or user of the electronic device via the memory module which may be a Subscriber Identity Module SIM card for use in a GSM network or other type of memory module for use in the relevant wireless network type. The memory module may be inserted in or connected to the memory module interface of the electronic device .

The electronic device may store data in an erasable persistent memory which in one example embodiment is the flash memory . In various example embodiments the data may include service data having information required by the electronic device to establish and maintain communication with the wireless network . The data may also include user application data such as email messages address book and contact information calendar and schedule information notepad documents images and other commonly stored user information stored on the electronic device by its user and other data. The data may in at least some embodiments include metadata which may store information about the images . While the metadata is illustrated separately from the images in some embodiments the metadata and the images may be stored together. That is a single file may include both an image and also metadata regarding that image. For example in at least some embodiments the image may be formatted and stored as a JPEG image.

The data stored in the persistent memory e.g. flash memory of the electronic device may be organized at least partially into a number of databases or data stores each containing data items of the same data type or associated with the same application. For example email messages contact records and task items may be stored in individual databases within the electronic device memory.

The data port may be used for synchronization with a user s host computer system. The data port enables a user to set preferences through an external device or software application and extends the capabilities of the electronic device by providing for information or software downloads to the electronic device other than through the wireless network . The alternate download path may for example be used to load an encryption key onto the electronic device through a direct reliable and trusted connection to thereby provide secure device communication.

In some example embodiments the electronic device is provided with a service routing application programming interface API which provides an application with the ability to route traffic through a serial data i.e. USB or Bluetooth Bluetooth is a registered trademark of Bluetooth SIG Inc. connection to the host computer system using standard connectivity protocols. When a user connects their electronic device to the host computer system via a USB cable or Bluetooth connection traffic that was destined for the wireless network is automatically routed to the electronic device using the USB cable or Bluetooth connection. Similarly any traffic destined for the wireless network is automatically sent over the USB cable Bluetooth connection to the host computer for processing.

The electronic device also includes a battery as a power source which is typically one or more rechargeable batteries that may be charged for example through charging circuitry coupled to a battery interface such as the serial data port . The battery provides electrical power to at least some of the electrical circuitry in the electronic device and the battery interface provides a mechanical and electrical connection for the battery . The battery interface is coupled to a regulator not shown which provides power V to the circuitry of the electronic device .

The short range communication module provides for communication between the electronic device and different systems or devices which need not necessarily be similar devices. For example the short range communication module may include an infrared device and associated circuits and components or a wireless bus protocol compliant communication mechanism such as a Bluetooth communication module to provide for communication with similarly enabled systems and devices.

In the embodiment illustrated the camera is illustrated as being coupled directly with a main processor which controls the camera. In at least some embodiments the camera may include a dedicated image signal processor which may provide at least some camera related functions. For example in at least some embodiments the image signal processor of the camera may be configured to provide auto focusing functions. Functions or features which are described below with reference to the camera application may in at least some embodiments be provided in whole or in part by the image signal processor.

The electronic device also includes a flash . As noted above the flash is used to illuminate a subject while the camera captures an image of the subject. The flash may for example be used in low light conditions. In the example embodiment illustrated the flash is coupled with the main processor of the electronic device . However in other embodiments the flash may be coupled to the image signal processor not shown of the camera which may be used to trigger the flash. The image signal processor may in at least some embodiments control the flash . In at least some such embodiments applications associated with the main processor may be permitted to trigger the flash by providing an instruction to the image signal processor to instruct the image signal processor to trigger the flash .

A predetermined set of applications that control basic device operations including data and possibly voice communication applications may be installed on the electronic device during or after manufacture. Additional applications and or upgrades to an operating system or software applications may also be loaded onto the electronic device through the wireless network the auxiliary I O subsystem the data port the short range communication module or other suitable device subsystems . The downloaded programs or code modules may be permanently installed for example written into the program memory e.g. the flash memory or written into and executed from the RAM for execution by the processor at runtime.

In some example embodiments the electronic device may provide two principal modes of communication a data communication mode and a voice communication mode. In the data communication mode a received data signal such as a text message an email message or webpage download will be processed by the communication subsystem and input to the processor for further processing. For example a downloaded webpage may be further processed by a web browser or an email message may be processed by the email messaging application and output to the display . A user of the electronic device may also compose data items such as email messages for example using an input interface in conjunction with the display . These composed items may be transmitted through the communication subsystem over the wireless network .

In the voice communication mode the electronic device provides telephony functions and may operate as a typical cellular phone. The overall operation is similar to the data communication mode except that the received signals would be output to the speaker and signals for transmission would be generated by a transducer such as the microphone . The telephony functions are provided by a combination of software firmware i.e. a voice communication module and hardware i.e. the microphone the speaker and input devices . Alternative voice or audio I O subsystems such as a voice message recording subsystem may also be implemented on the electronic device . Although voice or audio signal output may be accomplished primarily through the speaker the display may also be used to provide an indication of the identity of a calling party duration of a voice call or other voice call related information.

The processor operates under stored program control and executes software modules such as applications stored in memory such as persistent memory for example in the flash memory . As illustrated in the software modules may include operating system software and one or more additional applications or modules such as for example a camera application . The processor may also operate to process data stored in memory associated with the electronic device .

In the example embodiment of the camera application is illustrated as being implemented as a stand alone application . However in other example embodiments the camera application could be provided by another application or module such as for example the operating system software . Further while the camera application is illustrated with a single block the functions or features provided by the camera application could in at least some embodiments be divided up and implemented by a plurality of applications and or modules.

The camera application may for example be configured to provide a viewfinder on the display by displaying in real time or near real time an image defined in the electronic signals received from the camera . The camera application may also be configured to capture an image or video by storing an image or video defined by the electronic signals received from the camera . For example the camera application may be configured to store an image or video to memory of the electronic device .

The camera application may also be configured to control options or preferences associated with the camera . For example the camera application may be configured to control a camera lens aperture and or a shutter speed. The control of such features may in at least some embodiments be automatically performed by the camera software based on output received from a light exposure meter.

In at least some embodiments the camera application may be configured to focus the camera on a subject. For example the camera application may be configured to control an actuator of the camera to move a lens which is comprised of one or more lens elements in the camera relative to an image sensor in the camera . For example when capturing images of subjects which are very close to the camera e.g. subject at macro position the camera application may control the actuator to cause the actuator to move the lens away from the image sensor.

In at least some embodiments the camera application may provide for auto focusing capabilities. For example the camera application may analyze received electronic signals to determine whether the images captured by the camera are in focus. That is the camera application may determine whether the images defined by electronic signals received from the camera are focused properly on the subject of such images. The camera application may for example make this determination based on the sharpness of such images. If the camera application determines that the images are not in focus then the camera application may cause the processor to adjust the actuator which controls the lens to focus the image.

In at least some embodiments the camera application may be configured to control the flash associated with the camera and or to control a zoom associated with the camera . In at least some embodiments the camera application is configured to provide digital zoom features. The camera application may provide digital zoom features by cropping an image down to a centered area with the same aspect ratio as the original. In at least some embodiments the camera application may interpolate within the cropped image to bring the cropped image back up to the pixel dimensions of the original. The camera application may in at least some embodiments provide image stabilization for the camera. Image stabilization may reduce blurring associated with movement of the camera .

In at least some embodiments the metadata designating an image as either a primary image or a secondary image may be used when displaying images. For example in at least some embodiments the camera application may provide a slideshow mode in which a slideshow of images may be displayed on a display of the electronic device. The slideshow may exclude images designated as secondary images until a command to toggle to a secondary image is received via an input interface while an image designated as a primary image is displayed. In response to receiving such an input the camera application may cause the secondary image which is associated with the displayed primary image i.e. the secondary image which was captured at approximately the same time as the displayed primary image to be displayed. That is in the slideshow mode the electronic device may only display primary images unless a specific instruction is received instructing the electronic device to display a secondary image.

The software modules or parts thereof may be temporarily loaded into volatile memory such as the RAM . The RAM is used for storing runtime data variables and other types of data or information. Although specific functions are described for various types of memory this is merely one example and a different assignment of functions to types of memory could also be used.

Light that emanates from the flash can be used to illuminate a subject while the camera captures the image of the subject. For example light emanating from the flash reflects off the subject and is received at the image sensor associated with the camera in order to capture the illuminated subject. However light emanating from the flash can cause interference with the image sensor or with light received at the image sensor which can negatively affect the quality of image or video captured by the camera . For example light emanating from the flash can appear as a reflection or glare on images or video captured by the camera . By way of further example light emanating from the flash can pass through the lens and rather than bouncing or reflecting off of a subject the light may reflect off of the lens and interfere with the light from the subject received at the image sensor. The severity of the effect of this interference also called crosstalk is often directly related to the distance between the flash and the image sensor on the electronic device or associated with the camera . Such interference can be worse if there is a clear or transparent path in the lens between the flash and the image sensor through which light can travel. For example light emanating from the flash can reflect off of the lens and interfere with the light otherwise received at the image sensor in the camera .

In accordance with an embodiment a lens for a camera that includes a barrier can be used to mitigate or limit the interference from reflected light that may emanate from the flash and be received at the image sensor.

The barrier can be translucent or opaque and can be made out of metal as shown for example in or plastic as shown for example in . The barrier may be embedded into the lens such that it extends from a top surface of the lens to a bottom surface of the lens . In one or more embodiments the barrier does not extend to one or more of the top surface of the lens and the bottom surface of the lens . For example the barrier may extend to the bottom surface of the lens toward the top surface but it may not reach the top surface . The barrier may define a length that corresponds to a width defined by the lens . In one or more alternative embodiments the barrier defines a length that is shorter than the width defined by the lens . The length of the barrier may be defined as the distance between two ends of the barrier . The barrier may extend from a first side of the lens to a second side of the lens with the first side of the lens parallel to the second side of the lens . Each end of the barrier extends to the edge of the lens .

In accordance with the embodiment shown in the barrier has a top portion that is integral with and connected to a lower portion . The top portion is in the form of a planar surface parallel to the surface of the lens and extends from two of its sides to the lower portion . The top portion may be flush with the top surface of the lens . In one or more embodiments the top portion may lie in the lens underneath the top surface of the lens . The ends of the barrier may correspond to the ends of the top portion of the barrier . The lower portion is parallel to the top surface of the lens. Four flanges extend from the lower portion of the barrier out of the lens . Each of the four flanges defines holes which may be used to secure the lens to a housing such as the electronic device shown in . The barrier may be in a different configuration and shape as that shown in the figures. For example the top surface of the barrier need not be planar and the ends of the barrier may not extend to the edge of the lens . The function or intended use of the barrier can include blocking or inhibiting unwanted light e.g. reflected inside the lens from interfering with the image sensor.

In the embodiment illustrated in there are four securing holes in the barrier embedded inside of the lens with each hole proximal to a flange . The securing holes may be defined in the barrier in order to secure the barrier to the lens . For example resin may be applied into the securing holes in order to secure the barrier to the lens . By way of further example the lens may be molded around the barrier such that the lens material i.e. the material that molds into the lens passes through each of or at least one of the securing holes . There may be other holes or other securing holes in the barrier at other locations that can be used to secure the barrier to the lens . Similarly in one or more alternative embodiments the securing holes shown in may be in different locations on the barrier or there may be fewer or more than four securing holes .

The holes defined by each of the four flanges may be configured to receive a screw nail or one or more other attachment component. The attachment component s may be used to secure to lens to the housing or to an electronic device such as that shown in .

The barrier may be in a different configuration as that illustrated in the figures. For example the barrier may not be in the approximate center of the lens . By way of further example the barrier may not be perpendicular to the sides of the lens and may instead be angled within the lens e.g. relative to the edge . In yet a further example the barrier may be closer to the image sensor portion than it is to the flash portion or vice versa.

Other forms of barriers may be used in the lens . With reference to in one or more embodiments the barrier is a plastic barrier . The plastic barrier shown in isolation in is depicted having a triangular cross section although other cross sections may be implemented. The plastic barrier may be made out of colored plastic or may have a colored i.e. opaque paint applied to it. The plastic barrier defines a length between two ends . When the plastic barrier is contained or held inside of the lens the two ends extend from one edge of the lens to another edge of the lens such that the length of the plastic barrier corresponds to the width of the lens . In other embodiments the length of the plastic barrier does not correspond to the width of the lens . For example the length of the plastic barrier may be shorter or longer than the width of the lens . By way of further example the length of the plastic barrier may be shorter than the width of the lens and the ends of the plastic barrier may both be inside of the lens . In the embodiment illustrated in the barrier is positioned in the lens such that an apex of the triangular cross section of the barrier is pointed towards and may be flush with the top surface of the lens . In one or more alternative embodiments the barrier is positioned such that the apexes of the triangular cross section defined by the barrier are not pointing towards the top surface of the lens .

In the embodiment shown in the figures the flash portion and the image sensor portion are integral with the barrier . A space can exist between the flash and the image sensor. When the lens is in use or supported by the housing and the image sensor portion is covering the image sensor and the flash portion is covering the flash the distance between the flash portion and image sensor portion can correspond to the space between the flash and the image sensor. In such an embodiment the distance between the center of the flash and the center of the image sensor can be such that when the lens is in use light that emanates from the flash can pass through or reflect within the lens and cause interference with the camera or with the image sensor if not otherwise prevented e.g. by the barrier . For example light emanative from the flash could travel in the lens and if not otherwise obstructed by the barrier for example could interfere with the camera. In one or more embodiments when the lens is secured to or mounted on the housing the approximate distance between the center of the flash and the center of the image sensor could be up to 20 millimeters. In one or more embodiments the flash and image sensor can be abutting such that there is no gap between the two.

The flash portion of the lens is for covering the flash and is transparent to allow light from the flash to pass through while blocking debris from entering into the flash . The image sensor portion of the lens is for covering the image sensor and is also transparent to allow light to pass through into the image sensor associated with the camera while blocking debris from entering into the image sensor. For example when the lens is in operation the image sensor portion covers the image sensor and the flash portion covers the flash . The top surface of the portion of the lens that does not comprise the flash portion or the image sensor portion can have foil adhered to it as in .

The lens can be mounted on supported by or contained inside of the housing of the electronic device . When the lens is mounted on or contained inside of the housing the image sensor portion of the lens is configured to cover the image sensor. Similarly when the lens is mounted on or contained inside of the housing the flash portion of the lens is configured to cover the flash . For example when the lens is mounted on or contained inside the housing the lens is positioned such that the flash portion covers the flash and the image sensor portion covers the image sensor as shown in described below . The flash portion and the image sensor portion on the lens are configured to align with the flash and image sensor respectively when the lens is in use or when it is secured to the housing. By way of further example the housing can define a first opening and a second opening and lens may be configured such that the flash portion is aligned with the first opening for allowing light to pass therethrough and the image sensor portion may be aligned with the second opening to allow light to pass therethrough.

The lens can be connected to the housing such that the lens extends from one side of the housing to the other. Or in an alternative embodiment the lens covers the flash and image sensor but does not extend to either side of the housing. In a further embodiment the lens covers a majority of the rear face or front face as the case may be of the electronic device . The lens can be mounted to the housing such that the outer surface of the lens is flush with the outer surface of the housing i.e. the rear face in the case of a rear facing camera . In a further embodiment the lens is not supported by the housing. For example the lens is supported by the camera and or the flash or another component of the electronic device .

In one or more embodiments there are additional lens elements underneath the lens that may be between the image sensor and image sensor portion . For example the additional lens elements may be associated with or attached to the camera and controlled by an actuator as described above.

In an alternative embodiment the lens is contained within the housing such that a first opening in the housing aligns with the image sensor portion of the lens and a second opening in the housing aligns with the flash portion of the lens . Similarly the image sensor and the flash can also be aligned with the first and second openings in the housing respectively so that light can pass through the first and second openings in the housing and through the flash portion and image sensor portion of the lens . In such an embodiment the portions of the lens that do not include the flash portion and the image sensor portion may be contained within the housing. For example foil may be adhered to a portion of the lens and the foil may be contained within the housing. In further embodiments there is an adhesive seal on the lens for securing the lens to the interior of the housing.

The shape of the image sensor portion can be different than that of the remainder of the lens to accommodate the lens requirements for the image sensor. Similarly the shape of the flash portion can also be different from the shape of the remainder of the lens in order to accommodate the needs of the flash . For example in an embodiment the image sensor portion and or the flash portion are concave and the remainder of the lens is generally planar. Similarly the arc of the curve of the flash portion can be different from the arc of the curve of the image sensor portion which can also be different from the arc of the curve of the lens .

When the lens is secured to a housing or otherwise associated with a camera in operation the top surface is distal to the flash and image sensor the bottom surface not shown in the figures of the lens which is parallel to the top surface but facing the opposite direction is proximal to the flash and image sensor when the lens is in use with a camera . Accordingly the top surface of the lens is the outer surface when the lens is secured or supported by a housing. For example the top surface of the lens may be flush with the outer surface of the housing.

The distance between an approximate center of the image sensor portion and an approximate center of the flash portion is intended to be similar to the distance generally between the center of the flash and the center of the image sensor. The distance between the center of the flash portion and the center of the image sensor portion of the lens may be approximately in the range of 7 to 20 millimeters. In some embodiments when the distance between the center of the image sensor and the center of the flash is greater than 15 millimeters the light emanating from the flash does not interfere with the image sensor.

In accordance with one or more embodiments light that emanates from the flash can be controlled by the placement and the shape or both of the barrier relative to the lens . For example light that emanates from the flash can be inhibited from passing through or reflecting within the lens and interfering with the image sensor by the barrier . By way of further example unwanted light that would otherwise reflect through the lens i.e. from the flash to the image sensor can be inhibited or blocked by the barrier in the lens .

In one or more embodiments paint can be applied to a portion of a surface of the lens to assist with controlling or dispersing light that emanates from the flash . For example dark or opaque paint can be applied on a portion of the surface that does not impede the passage of light from the flash through the lens to the exterior of the camera or from the exterior of the camera through the lens to the image sensor. For example dark or opaque paint can be applied to the surface of the lens in a location around the barrier . The paint can be applied before or after the lens is secured to the housing. The paint can be applied to the portion of a surface of the lens e.g. the top surface or the barrier or both instead of foil or in addition to foil .

In an embodiment the lens has a thickness of between 1 millimeter and 1.5 millimeters. Variations on the dimensions thickness and configuration of the lens may be used.

At heat is applied to the plastic to melt the plastic. The plastic can be heated to at least to its melting point. The plastic can be in the form of plastic pellets or segments suitable for injection molding for example. The plastic can be melted in a container or vat that may be specially designed for holding melting and pouring or injecting plastic. The plastic can be poly methyl methacrylate PMMA polycarbonates PC or a combination of polycarbonate and Acrylonitrile butadiene styrene PC ABS for example or of another suitable plastic.

At the plastic is placed in a mold. The mold can be for shaping the plastic into a lens having a flash portion for covering a flash of a camera and an image sensor portion for covering an image sensor of the camera . The mold may be made out of metal and formed in the inverse of the shape of the lens . That is the mold is such that the plastic when cooled taking the shape of the mold will be in the form of a lens . The mold may be suitable for injection molding for example.

In one or more embodiments the plastic is placed in the mold before the plastic is heated. For example solid plastic pellets or segments can be placed in the mold before being heated. Thus the plastic is heated when it is in the mold. In such embodiments the mold is made of material that has a higher melting temperature than plastic. In other words the mold will not melt when it is heated to the melting temperature of the plastic.

At a barrier is inserted into the mold such that the barrier is positioned between the flash portion and the image sensor portion of what will be the lens . The barrier can be one of the barriers described above for example. If the barrier is a plastic barrier then the melting point of the plastic barrier is higher than that of the lens so that there is a temperature range in which the lens will melt to a liquid state while the barrier will remain in a solid state.

At the plastic is cooled. For example the plastic is cooled in the mold so that when the plastic hardens it is in the shape of the lens defined by the mold. After the plastic is cooled it may be removed from the mold. In one or more embodiments the mold may be reusable i.e. to create another lens .

In one or more embodiments the method may be electronically operated. For example the temperature of the plastic may be controlled by an electronic processor operating on instructions stored on a memory associated with the electronic processor.

In one or more embodiments the barrier may be inserted into the mold before placing the plastic in the mold whether the plastic is melted or not . For example the plastic may be melted in a container at after the barrier has been inserted into the mold. The plastic may then be poured or injected into the mold and around the barrier . If the barrier is a metal barrier as described in relation to then the melted plastic may be poured or injected around the barrier so that it passes through the securing holes . In such an embodiment when the plastic cools in the mold then the barrier will be secured in the plastic at least partly due to the plastic cooling within the securing holes and the plastic together with the barrier will form the lens .

In one or more embodiments the barrier is made out of metal such as the barriers shown in . For example a temperature of at least 250 degrees Fahrenheit can be applied to the barrier or the foil or both to adhere the foil to the barrier to prevent scratching on the lens . The temperature applied to the barrier or to the foil or to both can be such that the barrier does not enter into the liquid state. For example the foil may include adhesive that is activated by heat. The foil can be adhered to the barrier before the barrier is placed in the plastic or mold. For example the foil can be secured or adhered to the barrier by overlaying a thin metal foil onto a surface of the barrier . The foil may be adhered onto a surface of the barrier using an injection molding machine for example. By way of further example the foil may be metallic or plastic.

In one or more embodiments an additional layer of transparent material may be adhered to the top surface of the lens . For example after the lens is manufactured according to the method an additional layer of transparent plastic can be injection molded or otherwise adhered to the top surface of the lens . Alternatively the additional layer can be sprayed or brushed onto the top surface of the lens . For example the additional layer can be in a liquid state that can be sprayed or rushed onto the lens after which the additional layer can dry and harden. The additional layer can have certain properties such as repelling fingerprint marks.

The various embodiments presented above are merely examples and are in no way meant to limit the scope of this application. Variations of the innovations described herein will be apparent to persons of ordinary skill in the art such variations being within the intended scope of the present application. In particular features from one or more of the above described example embodiments may be selected to create alternative example embodiments including a sub combination of features which may not be explicitly described above. In addition features from one or more of the above described example embodiments may be selected and combined to create alternative example embodiments including a combination of features which may not be explicitly described above. Features suitable for such combinations and sub combinations would be readily apparent to persons skilled in the art upon review of the present application as a whole. The subject matter described herein and in the recited claims intends to cover and embrace all suitable changes in technology.

