---

title: High sensitivity stress sensor based on hybrid materials
abstract: A sensing device is used to detect the spatial distributions of stresses applied by physical contact with the surface of the sensor or induced by pressure, temperature gradients, and surface absorption. The sensor comprises a hybrid active layer that includes luminophores doped in a polymeric or organic host, altogether embedded in a matrix. Under an electrical bias, the sensor simultaneously converts stresses into electrical and optical signals. Among many applications, the device may be used for tactile sensing and biometric imaging.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08710611&OS=08710611&RS=08710611
owner: West Virginia University
number: 08710611
owner_city: Morgantown
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120119
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 461 702 filed on Jan. 20 2011 entitled A High Sensitivity Stress Sensor Based on Hybrid Materials the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference.

The invention relates generally to the field of semiconductor sensors. More particularly the invention relates to a stress sensor based on hybrid materials and methods of making the same.

Tactile sensors have gained renewed interest as the level of sophistication in the applications of humanoid robotics and minimal invasive surgery increases. Most robotic systems incorporate binary touch sensors that can distinguish between touch and no touch. To improve the manipulative capabilities of robotic hands more sophisticated tactile sensors that can replicate the sensation of touch are needed. That would require the development of a device that can be mounted on a curved surface and sense a distribution of contact stress as low as 10 kPa at a high spatial resolution of about 40 m over a contact area of 1 cm. Many technologies have been explored for tactile sensing including conducting elastomers piezoresistive materials and micro electro mechanical systems. However their use in dexterous hands are hampered due to two limitations i poor spatial resolution lagging by one order of magnitude compared to a human finger and ii strain induced nonuniform background signals in devices built on large curved surfaces due to the lack of flexibility. Recently a new tactile sensor consisting of alternating layer of nanoparticles and dielectric materials was demonstrated. The sensor was capable of imaging stress distributions with a high spatial resolution but its practical use may be limited by the complexity of the device structure and processing.

Organic and polymeric materials are flexible and sensitive to external stresses. Upon compression their resistivity may change dramatically due to reduced intermolecular distance and increased orbital overlap which lead to higher rates of electron transfer between neighboring molecules. This sensitive piezoresistive response to deformation makes them attractive materials for stress sensing applications. In addition many organic and polymeric dyes have superior fluorescent or phosphorescent properties and have been used to develop high efficiency organic light emitting diodes OLEDs . The quantum efficiency of OLEDs is largely dependent upon carrier tunneling and energy transfer processes whose rates are strong functions of the intermolecular distance. Therefore organic and polymeric thin films may respond to applied forces with changes in current density as well as luminescent emission. Given these unique behaviors along with easy fabrication and compatibility with flexible substrates it is possible to use organic and polymeric thin films to build simple and low cost tactile sensors which are capable of high resolution imaging of stress distributions stress fields .

The present invention employs a hybrid light emitting diode structure as tactile sensing devices by utilizing their sensitive and repeatable responses to stresses with changes in current density as well as electroluminescent light intensity. These devices find use in many other fields including biometrics and medial applications.

In accordance with an embodiment of the invention a stress sensing device that can work as an electronic or optoelectronic sensor is provided. The sensor includes a supporting substrate. A contact layer is disposed on the substrate as the first electrode. An active layer comprising luminophores doped in a host and embedded in a matrix is disposed on the first electrode. Further a contact layer is disposed on the active layer as the second electrode.

In accordance with another embodiment of the invention a stress sensing device that can work as an electronic or optoelectronic sensor is provided. The sensor includes a supporting substrate. A contact layer is disposed on the substrate as the first electrode. An active layer comprising luminophores doped in a host and embedded in a matrix is disposed on the first electrode. Further a contact layer is disposed on the active layer as the second electrode. The sensor further includes at least one of a hole injection layer that is disposed between the active layer and the first electrode and an electron injection layer that is disposed between the active layer and the second electrode.

In yet another embodiment of the invention a stress sensing device that can work as an electronic or optoelectronic sensor is provided. The sensor includes a supporting substrate. A contact layer is disposed on the substrate as the first electrode. An active layer comprising luminophores doped in a host and embedded in a matrix is disposed on the first electrode. Further a contact layer is disposed on the active layer as the second electrode. At least one of the electrodes is micro patterned and consists of isolated micro contacts or a set of parallel micro contact lines. The sensor further includes at least one of a hole injection layer that is disposed between the active layer and the first electrode and an electron injection layer that is disposed between the active layer and the second electrode.

These and other advantages and features will be more readily understood from the following detailed description of preferred embodiments of the invention that is provided in connection with the accompanying drawings.

This invention is a family of devices which work as optoelectronic or electronic sensors to measure stress distributions over the area of the contact. To facilitate the description the polarity of the sensors and is arbitrarily chosen as the top surface of the sensors where forces or stress fields are applied through physical contact. The bottom surface of the sensors is the surface of a supporting substrate through which optical signals are extracted. shows a typical configuration of the optoelectronic sensors. It comprises a supporting substrate a contact layer disposed on the substrate as the first electrode an active layer disposed on the first electrode and another contact layer disposed on the active layer as the second electrode . The sensor is actually a light emitting diode. To facilitate the description the first electrode of the device is arbitrarily chosen as the anode where holes are injected into the active layer whereas the second electrode is the cathode where electrons are injected and forces are applied. Both the first electrode and second electrode have first and second surfaces. The active layer also has first and second surfaces. The first surface of the first electrode adjoins the substrate . The second surface of the first electrode adjoins the first surface of the active layer and the first surface of the second electrode adjoins the second surface of the active layer forming a sandwich configuration with the active layer positioned between the first electrode and the second electrode . A variation in the stress field experienced by the second surface of the second electrode results in a variation in sensor output light intensity or electrical current . The second electrode or the substrate may experience a stress field due to direct contact pressure temperature gradient across an element attached to the second electrode or surface adsorption through an element attached to the second electrode or substrate. Non limiting examples of elements attached to the second electrode or substrate include bimetallic strips cantilever membrane piezoelectric membrane etc.

Due to the excellent flexibility of the layered structure the sensor may be built on large curved surfaces of different substrates. The substrate may comprise any rigid or flexible material that is insulating semiconducting or conducting. When the sensor works as an optoelectronic sensor and light is extracted from the substrate the substrate should comprise a material that is transparent or semitransparent at the wavelength of interest including without limitation glass quartz sapphire polymers and wide band gap semiconductors. When the device is used as an electronic sensor there is no specific requirement for the optical properties of the substrate material.

The first electrode and second electrode are of conducting or semiconducting material. For the optoelectronic sensor the first electrode is also of transparent or semitransparent material. Examples of materials for the first electrode include but not limited to thin metals like Au Pt and Ni and transparent conductive oxides like indium tin oxide ITO and zinc tin oxide ZTO . There is no restriction on the optical properties on the second electrode but a material with high reflectivity at the wavelength of interest is preferred. It is also preferred that the second electrode is relatively thin so it has good flexibility. In some embodiments the second electrode may not be deposited on the surface of the active layer but attached to another supporting template through which the sensing forces are applied. During operation the second electrode is brought in physical contact with the layered structure so that stress is applied to the active layer . Examples of the material of the second electrode include but not limited to Al Ca and Ag.

The active layer comprises luminophores doped in a host altogether embedded in a matrix . The matrix comprises a material that is more mechanically stable than organic materials and can enhance the robustness of the hybrid sensor structure. Examples of the matrix material include but not limited to polymers such as polycarbonate PC polyimide and poly N N bis 4 butylphenyl N N bis phenyl benzidine as well as amorphous or polycrystalline inorganic materials like ZnO and SiO. The host comprises a material that can accept charge injected from the first electrode and the second electrode generate excitons and efficiently transfer energy to the luminophores . In exciton energy transfer processes the host molecules act as donors whereas the luminophores act as acceptors. Examples of the host material include but not limited to organic small molecule materials such as 4 4 N N dicarbazole biphenyl CBP N N dicarbazolyl 3 5 benzene mCP and 4 4 4 tris N carbazolyl triphenylamine TCTA as well as polymers like carbazoles and polyphenylenes. The luminophores are particles which can accept energy from the host molecules and emit light efficiently. Examples of the luminophore material include but not limited to phosphorescent organic dyes such as fac tris 2 phenylpyridinato N C2 iridium III Ir ppy and Bis 1 phenyl isoquinolinato N C iridium acetylacetonate Ir piq acac fluorescent organic dyes such as tris 8 hydroxyquinoline aluminum Alq and 2 methyl 6 p dimethylaminostyryl 4H pyan DCM polymeric dyes like Poly p phenylene vinylene PPV nanocrystal quantum dots QDs based on direct band gap semiconductors like CdS CdSe CdTe ZnS ZnSe GaAs and InP as well as combinations thereof.

The first electrode and second electrode can be deposited by physical deposition techniques such as evaporation deposition and sputtering deposition in a vacuum chamber. For those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that there are numerous ways to deposit the hybrid active layer on the first electrode including spin coating drop casting and inkjet printing from a solution containing the matrix host and luminophores. Before deposition the substrate and first electrode may be carefully cleaned in sequence in solvents and de ionized water and treated in Oplasma or ultraviolet ozone. The matrix host and luminophore materials can be first dissolved in the same or different nonpolar solvents such as chloroform and hexane to form solutions with a concentration on the order of 10 mg mL and then mixed at an appropriate weight ratio for example 20 50 30. The weight ratio can be adjusted to achieve the best sensor performance. The thickness of the active layer is in the range of 1 1000 nm and more preferably in the range of 10 100 nm. Before loading the sample into an evaporator to deposit the second electrode the active layer may be baked at a moderate temperature in the range of 50 200 C. for a time in the range of 10 sec to 30 min to evaporate the remaining solvents. It is preferred that the process is done in an inert ambient such as a N filled glovebox.

To operate this sensor a voltage electrical potential is applied by connecting the positive terminal of a voltage source to the first electrode and the negative terminal to the second electrode . The voltage is typically less than 50 V preferably less than 20 V. The voltage causes a current flow in the device that can be measured by a current meter . Electrons and holes are injected into the active layer from the first electrode and second electrode respectively. They will form excitons on the host molecules which can efficiently transfer the energy to the excitons in the luminophores through a resonant energy transfer process F rster energy transfer . The radiative decay of the excitons in the luminophores leads to the emission of electroluminescent light that can be extracted from the substrate and measured by a photodetector . As an external force stress field acting over an area which may be caused by physical contact or induced by pressure temperature gradients and surface absorption is applied to the top or bottom surface of the sensor it causes compressive strain in the active layer reducing the intermolecular spacing. This leads to increased rates of charge transfer between neighboring molecules through hopping and thus an increased electrical conductivity of the hybrid film in the direction of the force . The force may vary across the top surface of the sensor. In the sensor of the present invention a small percent of deformation may lead to a significant increase in the current flow under a constant voltage bias. Since Young s moduli of typical matrix and host materials are on the order of GPa the sensor is capable of converting stresses on the order of kPa into current variations and sensing touch on a par with a human finger which typically applies a stress on the order of 10 40 kPa to sense texture and shape.

In the meantime since the rates of energy forward transfer and back transfer between the host molecules and luminophores depend exponentially on the inter particle distance the external stress will also cause remarkable variations of the number of excitons in the luminophores leading to modulations increases or decreases in the intensity of the electroluminescent light . Ideally both the current and light intensity change linearly with the magnitude of the stress. If the second electrode is sufficiently flexible the distribution of the stress causes corresponding distributions of the current and light intensity. The transparent substrate and first electrode allow the collection focusing of the light in a photodetector . The photodetector could be but not limited to a digital camera and an array of silicon photo diodes. The sensor in can therefore be used to simultaneously detect stress distributions with a high sensitivity by measuring electrical and optical signals. The latter allows direct imaging of contact stress distributions.

Those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that the optoelectronic sensor can also operate as an electronic sensor by measuring the current signals only in another embodiment. The substrate and first electrode do not have to be transparent. The luminophores are not needed or can be replaced by particles of a non luminescent material.

Optionally the sensor structure may also include two charge injection layers hole injection layer and electron injection layer disposed between the first electrode and second electrode and the active layer respectively as shown in which illustrates another embodiment of the present invention. The charge injection layers are employed to enhance the injection and transport of electrons and holes into the active layer. For example the sensor may include a hole injection layer HIL disposed between the first electrode and the active layer and an electron injection layer EIL disposed between the second electrode and the active layer . In some embodiments only one charge injection layer either HIL or EIL is employed in the sensor. The HIL and EIL may be formed by solution processing such as spin coating and drop casting or by vacuum deposition. The thickness of HIL and EIL is in the range of 0.1 200 nm and more preferably in the range of 1 20 nm. The HIL and EIL may include at least one organic polymeric or inorganic material. Examples of the HIL material include but not limited to poly 3 4 ethylenedioxythiophene poly styrenesulfonate PEDOT PSS MoO and WO. Examples of the EIL material include but not limited to copper phthalocyanine CuPc tris 8 hydroxyquinoline aluminum Alq and LiF.

We have successfully made a prototype light emitting stress sensor on a glass substrate with pre patterned indium tin oxide ITO . The substrate was first cleaned in sequence in acetone ethanol and de ionized water and then exposed to oxygen plasma for 5 min. The active layer was prepared by spin coating a mixture of phosphorescent fac tris 2 phenylpyridinato N C2 iridium III Ir ppy 4 4 N N dicarbazole biphenyl CBP and polycarbonate PC dissolved in chloroform 10 mg mL at 3000 rpm for 1 min. The CBP acted as a host Ir ppy acted as the luminophores and PC was used as a polymer matrix. The weight percentage ratio of the mixture is approximately 20 50 30 for Ir ppy CBP and PC respectively. The thickness of the coated films was about 60 nm. The sample was then transferred to a high vacuum thermal evaporation system with a base pressure of 10 and a 20 nm thick 2 9 dimethyl 4 7 diphenylphenanthroline BCP and a 15 nm thick Alqlayer were deposited to block holes and facilitate electron injection. Finally a 0.5 nm thick LiF and 120 nm thick Al cathode were deposited on the organic films through a shadow mask which defined the active area of the sensor to be 3 3 mm.

To characterize the device responses to compression forces were applied uniformly to the sensor through a 3 3 mmSi sample placed atop the Al cathode using a probe tip attached to a micropositioner and were measured by an electronic precision balance with 0.1 g readability. The current voltage I V characteristics under different stresses were measured using an Agilent 4156C semiconductor parameter analyzer. The light emission at different fixed currents or voltages was recorded in air from the glass side using an Ocean Optics spectrometer.

It has been found that a small stress of 16 kPa can cause an increase in the low bias current by more than two orders of magnitude. The influence of stress on the current density in the device measured at three different fixed voltages is displayed in . At all voltages the current shows a rapid and nearly linear increase with increasing stress over the entire measurement range from 0 107 kPa. The current sensitivity varies from 94 205 A kPaas the voltage is changed from 10 14 V.

Since the applied stresses are relatively small they can reduce the intermolecular spacing but may not change the molecular geometry. The observed current responses thus reflect changes in the electrical conductivity of the organic films. When a uniaxial stress is applied and the current flows along the same direction the longitudinal piezoresistance coefficient of a film is defined as the relative change in electrical conductivity per unit stress. for the prototype sensor structure was found to be nearly independent of the stress and had a value of 2 10Paat 10 V. This value is more than two orders of magnitude greater than that of typical conjugated polymers and five orders of magnitude greater than that of Si nanostructures. The sensitive piezoresistive response is attributed to increased charge mobilities resulted from stronger intermolecular interaction charge transfer in the compressed films. The stress a human finger applies to sense texture and shape is typically on the order of 10 40 kPa. In the prototype devices described herein an applied stress as low as 6 kPa which only causes a small percent of deformation can produce a noticeable current change suggesting that the devices are capable of sensing touch on a par with a human finger.

The electroluminescence EL of the prototype sensor exhibited very sensitive but opposite response to the applied forces. While its EL peak position and spectrum shape stayed constant the light intensity decreased sharply with increasing stress. The dependence of the light intensity of the device on stress at different currents is shown in . At 6 mA the light intensity shows a monotonic decrease by over three orders of magnitude as the stress varies from 0 107 kPa. These results suggest that the sensor may convert local stresses into both measurable electrical and optical signals with a high sensitivity and is thus capable of direct imaging of contact stress distributions.

The sensitive optical responses of the sensor to external stresses may be explained as follows. In the hybrid active layer excitons are generated on the CBP host molecules and quickly transferred to the Ir ppy guest molecules. The EL originates from triplet excitons relaxing radiatively to the singlet ground state. Since the lifetime of the emitting triplet state of Ir III complexes is quite long on the order of micro to milli seconds the EL of the device is expected to be very sensitive to back energy transfer from triplets on the guest to triplets on the host molecules via a Dexter process whose rate is exponentially dependent on the donor acceptor separation R. Under normal conditions the back energy transfer from Ir ppy to CBP is insignificant due to relatively large Ras well as the fact that the process is endothermic given the higher energy of the host triplet excitons E 2.56 eV compared to that of the guest triplet excitons E 2.42 eV . However as the intermolecular spacing is squeezed its rate may increase substantially leading to weaker confinement of excitons on the guest. When the film is compressed the back energy transfer followed by nonradiative decay at defects may become the major energy dissipation process leading to EL quenching.

The above theory has been verified by the findings that similar sensors with fluorescent dyes doped in a CBP host embedded in a PC matrix showed much weaker electrical and optical responses to external stresses. Therefore for high sensitivity sensors with a polymer organic hybrid active light emitting layer phosphorescent dyes with an exciton energy close to that of the host molecules should be used.

The spatial resolution of the sensors in accordance with embodiments of the present invention is determined by the lateral current distribution in the hybrid device structure. The low lateral electrical conductivity in the thin semiconducting polymer organic layers along with the excellent flexibility of organic and polymer materials ensures a high spatial resolution of the sensors required for tactile sensing. The resolution may be further improved by replacing one or both of the first electrode and second electrode in by micro patterned electrodes. There are different designs of micro patterned electrodes. illustrate two exemplary embodiments of the stress sensor with micro patterned electrodes. In at least one of the first electrode and second electrode comprises an array of micro contacts separated by an insulting material . The sensor thus becomes an array of micro sensor units better suited for measuring stress induced light distributions. The micro contacts are disposed on a continuous contact layer so that the same bias can be applied to all sensor units. This contact scheme may also be used to map current distributions in the sensor if the micro contacts are deposited on a standard printed circuit board which allows the control of each individual sensor unit. If the sensor works as an optoelectronic device the first electrode components including the micro contacts insulator and continuous contact layer must be transparent or semitransparent. The materials and thickness of the substrate and the layered hybrid structure are identical for the device in and the device in where the HIL and EIL are optional.

For those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that there are different methods to process such a micro patterned electrode. For example it can be fabricated by standard lithography and deposition. An insulting layer comprising SiOor SiNis first deposited on the continuous contact layer . A photoresist layer is then spin coated exposed and developed to open an array of micro sized holes. After etching of the insulating material in the opening areas a conducting layer of transparent or semitransparent conductive material is deposited. Finally lift off is done to remove the photoresist along with the conducting material deposited atop leaving micro contacts separated by insulators on the continuous contact layer . The micro contacts may also be deposited through a shadow mask with micro sized openings. The resolution of the sensing device will be determined by the periodicity of the electrode pattern. In order to achieve a resolution which is sufficiently high for tactile sensing and biometric applications the periodicity of the micro contacts should be less than 100 m and more preferably less than 40 m. The size of the micro contacts is typically greater than 1 m but smaller than 40 m. For those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate there are many methods to process the stress induced current and or light emission distributions by feeding them to signal processing instruments for data acquisition storage computation and display. The signal processing instruments can feed back the signals to an entity that holds the stress sensor to invoke desirable actions including changes in the magnitudes of the applied stress and voltage.

The prototype sensor described earlier was subjected to different reliability tests including cycle testing. The device exhibited stable and reversible changes in current and light intensity as a constant stress was alternatively applied. The results demonstrated very good repeatability and robustness of the sensor. Stress sensors in accordance with embodiments of the present invention may be further passivated and encapsulated to improve its durality and reliability. For example the sidewalls of the sensors may be protected by a dielectric layer from reactions with atmosphere.

The various embodiments described herein are merely descriptive of the present invention and are in no way intended to limit the scope of the invention. Modifications of the present invention will become obvious to those having skill in the art in light of the detailed description herein and such modifications are intended to fall within the scope of the appended claims.

