---

title: Systems and methods for tracking and providing workflow information
abstract: A tangible computer-readable storage device storing computer-executable program instructions that generate a user interface for displaying workflow information associated with a tissue specimen in a pathology laboratory. The program instructions may be configured to perform a method including displaying a virtual laboratory component representing a physical pathology laboratory having one or more laboratory stations for processing the tissue specimen, wherein the tissue specimen is processed by the one or more laboratory stations according to a workflow, and displaying a specimen indicator that indicates a current specimen state based on a current relationship of the tissue specimen to the workflow. The method may further include enabling a first active component associated with the virtual laboratory component, wherein the first active component is configured to receive a user selection of a laboratory station and generating a supplemental view component of the selected laboratory station in response to the user selection, wherein the supplemental view provides supplemental information on processing by the selected laboratory station of the tissue specimen.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08645167&OS=08645167&RS=08645167
owner: DakoCytomation Denmark A/S
number: 08645167
owner_city: 
owner_country: DK
publication_date: 20121130
---
This application is a continuation of application Ser. No. 12 394 324 filed Feb. 27 2009 which is based upon and claims the benefit of priority from U.S. Provisional Application Nos. 61 064 359 filed on Feb. 29 2008 and 61 071 852 filed on May 21 2008 the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.

The present disclosure relates to laboratory data and more particularly to tracking and providing workflow data associated with a laboratory to a user.

Advances in analytical science have made it possible to extract a wide variety of information from a biological specimen. For example it may be possible to assess the health identify possible future health issues and provide information related to the genetic makeup of an individual from which the specimen was obtained. The benefits of such analysis however may be lost if results are associated with the wrong individual and or if the specimen is processed incorrectly.

Many of these biological specimens may be processed in laboratories. The laboratory may receive such specimens from institutions including for example hospitals clinics and or the police and also to a lesser extent from individuals themselves. These specimens may include for example tissue removed during a surgical procedure tissue from crime scenes and test materials from a home testing kit e.g. an HIV test among other things.

In a laboratory many resources and man hours may be consumed to process prepare and test a specimen. Each specimen may also pass through many lab stations and may be handled by many operators leading to potential losses in efficiency and clerical errors among other things. For example a laboratory may use an accessioning station to receive and prep the specimen e.g. by labeling the specimen listing the requested tests etc. before further analysis. After accessioning a technician may carry a specimen to a grossing station to measure cut and record a description of the specimen. The specimen may then be manually altered e.g. by embedding sectioning staining imaging etc. at subsequent stations where process data may or may not be tracked. Throughout execution of these processes multiple technicians may handle the specimen and record data associated with it. Each station or process thus introduces more costs and opportunities for error. For example one or more technicians may repeatedly perform process steps incorrectly e.g. use an incorrect stain embed a sample in too much paraffin section a specimen too closely etc. . Because such processes may not be tracked and or because such data may not be easily and succinctly summarized for review by administrators costly errors may go uncorrected.

To help avoid errors during the lab processing laboratories may employ elaborate systems of paperwork. However this incurs yet additional expenses. Many laboratories use log books tracking sheets and other manual processes to help identify and track specimens. However these manual methods do not adequately provide information on the workflow of a specimen as it is processed in the laboratory. Nor do manual methods lend themselves to quickly and efficiently providing high level summary data to the lab manager or others with an interest in gaining an understanding of the overall operations of the laboratory. There thus exists a need to track and provide workflow information associated with a specimen as it is processed in a laboratory and to present the information in meaningful ways at both detailed and macro levels.

According to some aspects the present disclosure provides a tangible computer readable storage device storing computer executable program instructions that generate a user interface for displaying workflow information associated with a tissue specimen in a pathology laboratory.

The program instructions may be configured to perform a method including displaying a virtual laboratory component representing a physical pathology laboratory having one or more laboratory stations for processing the tissue specimen wherein the tissue specimen is processed by the one or more laboratory stations according to a workflow and displaying a specimen indicator that indicates a current specimen state based on a current relationship of the tissue specimen to the workflow. The method may further include enabling a first active component associated with the virtual laboratory component wherein the first active component is configured to receive a user selection of a laboratory station and generating a supplemental view component of the selected laboratory station in response to the user selection wherein the supplemental view provides supplemental information on processing by the selected laboratory station of the tissue specimen

According to another aspect the present disclosure provides a computer implemented method for generating a user interface to display workflow information associated with a specimen in a laboratory.

The method may include displaying a virtual laboratory component representing a physical laboratory having one or more virtual laboratory stations enabling a first active component associated with the virtual laboratory component wherein the first active component is configured to receive a user selection of a virtual laboratory station included in the virtual laboratory component and generating a supplemental view component of the selected laboratory station in response to the user selection.

According to yet another aspect the present disclosure provides a user interface generated by a computer for displaying workflow information associated with a specimen in a laboratory. The interface may include a virtual laboratory component representing a physical laboratory having one or more virtual laboratory stations a first active component associated with the virtual laboratory component wherein the first active component is configured to receive a user selection of a virtual laboratory station included in the virtual laboratory component and a supplemental view component of the selected laboratory station wherein the supplemental view component is displayed in response to the user selection.

According to yet another aspect the present disclosure provides a method for providing workflow information associated with processing of specimens in a physical laboratory. The method may include storing device data associated with a laboratory device in the physical laboratory displaying a virtual laboratory component representing the physical laboratory having one or more laboratory stations and enabling a first active component associated with the virtual laboratory component wherein the first active component is configured to receive a user request for workflow information associated with a selected laboratory station. The method may further include processing based on the request the device data to generate the workflow information and providing the workflow information to the user.

According to yet another aspect the present disclosure provides a system for providing data related to a physical laboratory. The system may include a workflow server configured to receive data related to a physical laboratory a laboratory device in communication with the workflow server and configured to provide the data a display device and an interface component. The interface component may be configured to display a virtual laboratory component representing the physical laboratory having one or more laboratory stations enable a first active component associated with the virtual laboratory component wherein the first active component is configured to receive a user request for workflow information associated with a selected laboratory station process based on the request the device data to generate the workflow information and provide the workflow information to the user.

It is to be understood that both the foregoing general description and the following detailed description are exemplary and explanatory only and are not restrictive of the invention as described and claimed. Further features and or variations may be provided in addition to those set forth herein. For example the present invention may be directed to various combinations and subcombinations of the disclosed features and or combinations and subcombinations of several further features disclosed below in the detailed description.

Reference will now be made in detail to the invention examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying drawings. The implementations set forth in the following description do not represent all implementations consistent with the claimed invention. Instead they are merely some examples consistent with certain aspects related to the invention. Wherever possible the same reference numbers will be used throughout the drawings to refer to the same or like parts.

Systems and methods consistent with the invention may track and provide workflow information associated with a specimen in a laboratory. As used herein the term specimen broadly refers to any material or piece of material obtained for the purpose of performing an operation in a laboratory. For example the laboratory operation may involve preparation of the specimen analysis or testing of the specimen or storage of the specimen. Exemplary types of specimens include tissue or other biologic samples taken from an animal or human. Further as used herein the term workflow broadly refers to a path or order of operations that a specimen may follow in a laboratory. For example the term workflow may reflect the order in which a series of laboratory stations may process the specimen. The term workflow information may broadly refer to any information and or data related to a specimen s workflow.

In one exemplary implementation systems and methods consistent with the invention may provide a computer implemented user interface for displaying a workflow or workflow information associated with a specimen in a laboratory. For example the workflow user interface may display a virtual laboratory representing the actual or physical laboratory or laboratories that process the specimen. Through the virtual laboratory representation the user interface may further illustrate a workflow for the specimen as it is processed in the laboratory. As described in more detail below exemplary embodiments further include a specimen type indicator to illustrate the current specimen state as the specimen is processed in the laboratory according to the workflow.

Systems and methods consistent with the present disclosure thus allow laboratory administrators and other hospital staff to easily visualize a workflow associated with a specimen in a physical laboratory. Further systems consistent with the invention may also provide data related to the laboratory s processing of specimens through the workflow interface. For example the workflow user interface may provide a framework for viewing high level data associated with the workflow. As described in more detail below this data may include specimen specific data as well as laboratory data.

As shown in laboratory environment may include a network a receiving station an accessioning station a grossing station a tissue processing and embedding station a sectioning station an H E staining station an advanced staining station a special staining station an imaging station an archiving station a management server and a workflow server . Each of these stations may include one or more process specific laboratory devices e.g. a microtome at sectioning station microscopes and automated microscopes at imaging station an automated tissue processor and a paraffin embedder at tissue processing and embedding station one or more stainers at the staining stations an imager a barcode reader a printer etc. . Further stations to workflow server and management station may each communicate with one another via network . By enabling communication among the many laboratory devices associated with the laboratory stations data regarding a specimen as well as operation of the devices e.g. hours in use time per process operator ID materials consumed etc. may be provided to workflow server for storage in workflow database and other desired processing.

Laboratory environment may include more or fewer stations as those shown in the exemplary diagram of . For example exemplary arrangements may use only accessioning station tissue processing station advanced staining station and imaging station . In addition the order in which the various stations are shown in and described throughout the present disclosure is not intended to be limiting. One of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that such stations may be organized in any desirable order without departing from the scope of the present disclosure.

Network may enable communicative connections between devices within a physical laboratory and may be any suitable network enabling information transfer among electronic devices. For example network may include an Ethernet LAN a wide area network WAN and or the Internet among other things. Each station or server associated with laboratory environment and each device within a station may include a communicative connection with network and therefore may be communicatively connected to other laboratory devices present within a physical laboratory. This may allow each laboratory device to request and share data with workflow server among other things.

Receiving station and or accessioning station may be configured to receive specimens from various sources including for example hospital staff couriers and commercial shippers among others. Receiving station and or accessioning station may include numerous laboratory devices configured for accomplishing tasks related to receiving and initial preparation of specimens. For example stations may include a barcode scanner a printer e.g. configured for label printing and or a workstation configured to receive input from an operator among others. The term workstation as used herein broadly refers to any computer personal digital assistant PDA mainframe terminal or other computer implemented device suitable for interfacing with a user. Further a workstation consistent with the present disclosure may represent an exemplary workflow server and exemplary management workstation among others. In one example management workstation workflow server and workflow database may all be part of a single workstation. Therefore the following description of server may apply to other components of laboratory environment consistent with the present disclosure.

In one implementation workflow server may include a central processing unit as well as other components such as for example a display an input device and a network controller. Workflow server may display information on a display or at other remote locations such as for example a remote workstation connected via a network.

As noted above some or all of the devices of receiving station and or accessioning station may communicate with workflow server via network . Stations and or may then provide specimen data e.g. patient name specimen weight etc. and operational data e.g. process time for a specimen time in use operator id etc. to workflow server . Further one or more of the laboratory devices associated with receiving station and or accessioning station may include automated features and or may involve some manual interaction from an operator.

Because functionality associated with receiving station and or accessioning station may be similar stations and may be combined as one station. In such an embodiment personnel and laboratory devices associated with receiving station and accessioning station may be utilized for performance of the related processes at both stations.

Grossing station may be configured for performing an examination of a specimen preparing a related description of the specimen according to shape size and pathoanatomic findings and cutting a specimen to fit a specimen cassette or other suitable container. Therefore grossing station may include one or more laboratory devices such as for example a low power microscope a barcode scanner a cassette printer configured to print barcode information to a specimen cassette and a workstation among other things. The laboratory devices associated with grossing station may also communicate with workflow server via network or other suitable connection and provide specimen and operational data e.g. process time for a specimen time in use operator id etc. among other things to a user. Further one or more of the laboratory devices associated with grossing station may include automated features and or may involve some manual interaction from an operator.

Tissue processing and embedding station may be configured for processing and embedding a specimen in preparation for sectioning station . Tissue processing and embedding station may include one or more laboratory devices for example a tissue processor configured to dehydrate a specimen a paraffin embedding device a barcode reader and a workstation among other things. The laboratory devices associated with tissue processing and embedding station may communicate with workflow server via network or other suitable connection and provide specimen data and operational data e.g. process time for a specimen time in use operator id etc. among other things. Further one or more of the laboratory devices associated with tissue processing and embedding station may include automated features and or may involve some manual interaction from an operator.

Sectioning station may be configured to receive an embedded specimen from tissue processing and embedding station and produce slides of a specimen sectioned based on common practice and or additional instructions. Sectioning station may include one or more laboratory devices for example a microtome i.e. a sectioning device an oven or other heating device a barcode reader a printer e.g. a slide label printer and a workstation among other things. The laboratory devices associated with sectioning station may communicate with workflow server via network or other suitable connection and provide specimen data and operational data e.g. process time for a specimen time in use operator id etc. among other things. Further one or more of the laboratory devices associated with sectioning station may include automated features and or may involve some manual interaction from an operator.

H E staining station advanced staining station and special staining station may be configured for staining specimen slides in accordance with well known practices to those skilled in the art. H E staining station advanced staining station and special staining station may include one or more stainers e.g. automated and or manual devices configured to apply measured amounts of stain to particular specimen slides a pre treatment system stain kits and reagents a barcode scanner and a workstation among others. The laboratory devices associated with H E staining station advanced staining station and special staining station may communicate with workflow server via network or other suitable connection and provide specimen data e.g. stains used etc. and operational data e.g. process time for a specimen time in use operator id etc. among other things. Further one or more of the laboratory devices associated with H E staining station advanced staining station and special staining station may include automated features and or may involve some manual interaction from an operator. One of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that the staining stations described herein are exemplary and more or fewer staining stations may be utilized as desired.

Imaging station may be configured for examination of one or more specimen slides for diagnosis. Imaging station may include laboratory devices such as a microscope a slide scanner etcher a barcode scanner a printer e.g. configured to print reports and a workstation among other things. The laboratory devices associated with imaging station may communicate with workflow server via network or other suitable connection and provide specimen data e.g. specimen images and operational data e.g. process time for a specimen time in use operator id etc. among other things. Further one or more of the laboratory devices associated with imaging station may include automated features and or may involve some manual interaction from an operator.

Archiving station may be configured to archive the slides produced from a particular specimen for reference at a later time and may also archive slide images stored for a period of time via imaging station . Archiving station may include laboratory devices for example a workstation a barcode scanner a printer e.g. barcode printer and storage facilities among other things. The laboratory devices associated with archiving station may communicate with workflow server via network or other suitable connection and provide specimen data e.g. specimen images and operational data e.g. process time for a specimen time in use operator id etc. among other things. Further one or more of the laboratory devices associated with archiving station may include automated features and or may involve some manual interaction from an operator.

Management workstation may be configured to control laboratory devices associate with any of stations to and or to provide workflow information or any other information related to specimens and operational data of the laboratory. For example management workstation may control one or more automated laboratory devices present at the laboratory stations. In such an example an administrator and or an operator may wish to simultaneously access information from a microtome station and a tissue processing station without being physically present at one of these two specific laboratory stations. Management workstation may enable such control through network . Additional functionality associated with management workstation will be discussed in greater detail below.

Data associated with interface modules operational modules and analytical modules may be stored accessed and processed at detailed levels corresponding to individual specimens processes and stations. Such data may also be stored accessed and processed at a macro level that includes data from many specimens and stations over any desired period of time.

Operational modules may include an accessioning module a grossing module a sectioning module an archiving module a tissue processing module a staining module and an imaging module . Each module will be discussed in greater detail below. While the description below may associate certain functionalities with any particular module one of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that these modules may include more or less functionality as desired.

Accessioning module may be configured to provide functionality related to shipping and receiving station and or accessioning station . For example in some embodiments accessioning module may be configured to receive information related to a received specimen e.g. patient name patient ID received timestamp etc. and store such information in workflow database so that the information is associated with or linked to a current specimen. Data provided to accessioning module may be received on an automated basis from laboratory devices associated with receiving station and or accessioning station and or from manual entry by a technician of receiving station and or accessioning station through workflow server via network or other suitable method.

Further accessioning module may be configured to provide accessioning data previously stored to database in response to a request from workflow server and or via network . Such requests may include for example a request for patient data related to a specimen or operational data from a specimen receiving accessioning procedure. Accessioning module may receive such a request from for example analytical modules and or interface modules . Accessioning module may access data from laboratory information system through laboratory information module . Such data may be provided through workflow server via network or other suitable method. One of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that more or less functionality than that described herein may be available in each module associated with workflow server .

Grossing module may be configured to provide functionality associated with grossing station . For example grossing module may be configured to receive barcode information specimen description specimen test plan information and specimen cassette information among others and store such information to workflow database linked to a current specimen. Data provided to grossing module may be received on an automated basis from laboratory devices associated with grossing station e.g. a cassette printer and or from manual entry by personnel associated with grossing station through workflow server via network or other suitable method.

Further grossing module may be configured to provide information related to grossing station in response to a request from workflow server and or via network . For example such information may include providing specimen processing time at grossing station specimen description a specimen cassette ID and specimen test plan in response to a request from for example analytical modules and or interface modules . In some embodiments grossing module may be configured to provide additional processing of related information such as summarizing and or averaging data entry and cutting times providing average success rates e.g. per user and average cost per error among others.

Sectioning module may be configured to provide functionality associated with sectioning station . For example sectioning module may be configured to receive barcode information sectioning time specimen slide data e.g. number of slides produced and sectioning success among others and store such information to workflow database linked to a current specimen. Data provided to sectioning module may be received on an automated basis from laboratory devices associated with sectioning station e.g. a microtome and or from manual entry by a technician of sectioning station through workflow server via network or other suitable method.

Further sectioning module may be configured to provide information related to sectioning station in response to a request from workflow server and or via network . For example such information may include providing specimen sectioning time the number of sections from a specimen and sectioning success status at sectioning station in response to a request from for example analytical modules and or interface modules . In some embodiments sectioning module may be configured to provide additional processing of related information such as summarizing and or averaging machine times.

Archiving module may be configured to provide functionality associated with archiving station . For example archiving module may be configured to receive barcode information patient information and specimen storage location and store such information to workflow database . Data provided to archiving module may be received on an automated basis from laboratory devices associated with archiving station and or from manual entry by personnel associated with archiving station through workflow server via network or other suitable method.

Further archiving module may be configured to provide information related to archiving station in response to a request from workflow server and or via network . For example such information may include providing specimen location information in response to a request from for example analytical modules and or interface modules .

Tissue processing module may be configured to provide functionality associated with processing and embedding station . For example tissue processing module may be configured to receive barcode information storage cassette information and dehydration time among others and store such information to workflow database linked to a current specimen. Data provided to tissue processing module may be received on an automated basis from laboratory devices associated with tissue processing and embedding station e.g. an automated dehydrator and or from manual entry by technicians associated with tissue processing and embedding station by any suitable method.

Further tissue processing module may be configured to provide information related to tissue processing and embedding station in response to a request from workflow server and or via network . For example such information may include providing specimen dehydrating time paraffin embedding success rate and operator ID at tissue processing and embedding station in response to a request from for example analytical modules and or interface modules . In some embodiments tissue processing module may be configured to provide additional processing of related information such as summarizing and or averaging dehydrating machine times determining average success rates and breaking out possible critical points by highlighting errors associated with tissue processing and embedding tasks among others.

Staining module may be configured to provide functionality associated with H E staining station advanced staining station and special staining station as well as any other staining stations that may be utilized by the physical laboratory. For example staining module may be configured to receive barcode information specimen test plan stains and reagents used the number of slides stained and staining time among others and store such information to workflow database . Data provided to staining module may be received on an automated basis from laboratory devices associated with H E staining station advanced staining station and or special staining station e.g. an automated stainer and or from manual entry by personnel associated with H E staining station advanced staining station and or special staining station .

Further staining module may be configured to provide information related to H E staining station advanced staining station and or special staining station or other stainers present in response to a request from workflow server and or via network . For example such information may include providing stains to be used staining time number of slides stained and staining success status among others at H E staining station advanced staining station and or special staining station . Such a request may also be made by for example analytical modules and or interface modules . In some embodiments staining module may be configured to provide additional processing of related information such as summarizing and or averaging staining times from individual stainers present an average of staining costs per slide labor hours associated with a staining task average staining success rates and other similar data.

Imaging module may be configured to provide functionality associated with imaging station . For example imaging module may be configured to receive barcode information specimen slide data e.g. number of slides per specimen specimen image data and imaging success status and store such information to workflow database . Data provided to imaging module may be received on an automated basis from laboratory devices associated with imaging station and or from manual entry by personnel associated with imaging station through workflow server via network or other suitable method.

Further imaging module may be configured to provide information related to imaging station in response to a request from workflow server and or via network . For example such information may include providing specimen processing times at imaging station specimen image data imaging success status and imaging test plan data in response to a request from for example analytical modules and or interface modules . In some embodiments imaging module may be configured to provide additional processing of related information such as summarizing and or averaging imaging times per slide imaging success rates and identifying operator and imager errors among other things.

Analytical modules may include image analysis module data analysis module economic module and data module . Data module may be configured to function as an interface between workflow database and workflow server among other things. For example data module may implement properties and methods enabling storage and retrieval of data from workflow database via various connection methods e.g. ODBC . Therefore data module may provide query processing and dataset return methods configured to standardize data access across modules of workflow server . In such an example one of operational modules may provide a series of data to data module and data module may be responsible for executing a query causing the data to be stored in workflow database . Alternatively when a request for data is made by for example one of operational modules data module may parse the request and execute a query related to the request and return the requested data.

Data analysis module may be configured to parse a request related to data associated with the laboratory and or workflow database analyze data according to the request. For example data analysis module may receive a request from workflow server to retrieve data related to success rates at tissue processing and embedding station . Data analysis module may instantiate tissue processing module and retrieve data based on the request from workflow server . Data analysis module may then analyze the data e.g. to summarize and or validate the data and provide the data to economic model module for processing and report generation. Similarly where a request to store data is initiated by a module associated with workflow server data analysis module may receive and analyze the data for a determination of validity among other things.

Data analysis module also may be configured to analyze store and provide quality control data associated with a physical laboratory. For example based on a request data analysis module may obtain random samples of data from workflow database and analyze such data for determinations of for example laboratory device performance characteristics operator performance characteristics and or success error rates. Such analyses may enable a laboratory administrator to address one or more quality control issues associated with one or more laboratory stations. One of skill in the art will recognize that more or less functionality may be provided by data analysis module .

Economic model module may be configured to provide data related to economic analysis of workflow data associated with the physical laboratory among other things. For example a request may be initiated at management workstation for data related to staining costs at advanced staining station . The request may be transmitted via network to workflow server where economic model module may then request data from staining module based on the request. Economic model module may then process such data into a report and return the data to workflow server and on to management workstation . Analysis of workflow data by economic module and generation of related workflow reports will be discussed in greater detail below.

Image analysis module may be configured to receive data related to specimen images among others and analyze such data in response to a request. For example specimen image data may be stored in workflow database or other location such as disk . Upon receiving a request to view a particular specimen e.g. by patient ID barcode etc. image analysis module may retrieve one or more images related to a specimen e.g. digitally scanned slide images and analyze the image to provide a machine based diagnosis and or prognosis. Further analysis may be performed by image analysis module such as for example analyzing an image for defects e.g. to determine slide scanner calibration among other things. One of skill in the art will recognize that numerous functions may be performed by image analysis module upon further consideration of the present disclosure.

Interface modules may include request processing module graphical user interface GUI module specimen tracking module and laboratory information module . Interface modules may be configured to provide functionality relating to visualization of interfaces e.g. virtual laboratory workflow data reports etc. on a display and providing information related to a physical laboratory e.g. specimen location lab workflow etc. .

Request processing module may be configured to receive and process a user request based on input from GUI module or other suitable source e.g. a laboratory device . For example a user at management workstation may initiate a request e.g. a mouse click and or other selection to view a current workflow associated with a lab a specimen status or other desired request. Such a request may be initiated through an interface present on for example management workstation or other suitable location. Request processing module may receive the request through workflow server and parse the request to determine an operation desired by a user. Request processing module may then initiate actions and instantiate modules on workflow server to respond to the request among other things.

While user selections are generally described in the context of mouse clicks throughout the present disclosure one of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that user input may be received in numerous ways such as for example by keyboard entry touch screen entry voice commands etc. Any description with regard to mouse click based input is thus intended as exemplary only and is not intended to be limiting.

GUI module may provide processing for display of data display of a virtual laboratory component representing the physical laboratory displaying a workflow associated with the physical laboratory and receive selections from users at workstations via active components within the GUI e.g. a clickable area and or a pushbutton within the virtual laboratory . For example GUI module may generate a GUI displaying a virtual laboratory component representing a physical laboratory having one or more virtual laboratory stations. These virtual laboratory stations may be virtual representations of any of the stations described with regard to . In such an example GUI module may further provide one or more active components such as active areas within the virtual laboratory enabling user input e.g. a mouse click . Upon receipt of user input e.g. a selection GUI module may respond by generating an appropriate interface modification e.g. a supplemental view of a virtual laboratory station and or other views . Selections associated with GUI module may also be made by an administrator at management station to control one or more laboratory devices to display a report containing data requested by the administrator to track a specimen in the physical laboratory and or to view workflow proposed workflow associated with the physical laboratory.

GUI module may utilize numerous formats and programming languages for providing an interface. For example in some embodiments a graphics animation tool e.g. Adobe Flash HTML and or XML may be utilized for implementing a particular GUI e.g. virtual laboratory through GUI Module . In such an embodiment graphical elements may be designed and stored in a format compatible with the graphics tool e.g. Adobe Flash format while text associated with such images may be stored as XML and or HTML for ease of editing after compilation. One of skill in the art will recognize that other such combinations may be used without departing from the scope of the present invention.

Specimen tracking module may be configured to retrieve and provide information related to the status of one or more specimens in a laboratory. For example a user may initiate a request based on a patient ID or barcode information e.g. a scanned barcode to determine the current status of a specimen in a physical laboratory. Specimen tracking module may retrieve data related to the specimen and provide such data to GUI module for representation within a virtual laboratory component. In such an example specimen tracking module may also be configured to provide a workflow indication associated with the virtual laboratory. For example based on a current and or a proposed workflow specimen tracking module may provide an indicator and or path of a hypothetical specimen through a physical laboratory by displaying an appropriate indicator within a virtual laboratory. Workflow visualization will be discussed in greater detail below.

Laboratory information module may be configured to access information from laboratory information system and manipulate such data to enable transfer between laboratory information system and workflow server and or workflow database . Laboratory information systems are known in the art and may be commercially available from vendors including for example Cerner Corporation. Each individual laboratory information system may include a data model differing from that associated with other laboratory information systems and workflow database . Therefore to enable data transfer between laboratory information system and workflow database e.g. automatic data entry at receiving station laboratory information module may act as an interface between workflow server and any of modules and such that data associated with laboratory information system may be obtained regardless of the laboratory information system vendor. For example laboratory information system may be configured to store and provide patient and demographic data related to specimens arriving at a laboratory. In such an example upon receipt and identification of a specimen laboratory information module may connect to laboratory information system via a network to obtain specimen data e.g. physician ordered tests patient data and demographics etc. .

In the present example data model depicts data relationships between data tables . In such a data model slide table may include relationships to slide case table and slide steps table for purposes of providing lookup information for slide records in slide table . Similarly slide table may include relationships to lookup tables tissue type table and tissue prep table for purposes of identifying tissue characteristics associated with a slide record. Slide table may include relationships to user info table and an indirect relationship to user groups table for purposes of tracking user operations associated with a particular slide record in slide table .

In addition stainer table may represent data associated one particular laboratory device e.g. a stainer and may include records related to staining carried out on each slide referenced in stainer table . Therefore stainer table may maintain a relationship with slide table . For purposes of providing alerts with regard to a particular stainer and or slide being stained stainer table may maintain a relationship with stainer alerts table providing lookup information related to available stainer alerts. It is important to note that data model is exemplary only. One of skill in the art will recognize that data model may modified for use with many different laboratory devices and data structures.

Workflow database may be implemented on a standalone workstation in conjunction with workflow server e.g. on the same workstation or may be split across a server farm based on various factors. Further workflow database may be implemented using any suitable database management system DBMS . For example relational database management software may be used including Microsoft SQL Server Oracle and or MySQL among others. In addition XML data files spreadsheet software e.g. Microsoft Excel also may be utilized for managing data.

During accessioning of a specimen workflow data related to one or more processes undertaken at receiving station and or accessioning station also may be captured and stored to workflow database . For example data such as a user ID associated with an operator specimen IDs specimen status total time in accessioning label printer operation time workstation operation time etc. may be captured step . Such data may be processed by accessioning module and stored at workflow database . One of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that more or less data may be captured based on factors such as administrative desires and cost among others.

After being accessioned specimens may be taken to grossing station to undergo grossing processes and data capture step . Larger sectional cuttings of the specimen may be made at grossing station with additional related descriptions noted and transmitted to workflow server via a computer or other suitable device at grossing station step . Selected specimens may then be placed in cassettes e.g. plastic specimen cassettes and or other suitable containers along with the unique identifier and barcode affixed e.g. using a cassette printer . Providing the unique identifier on a specimen cassette or other container may further assist in reducing error rates and may save time for the operator operating grossing station and subsequent stations.

During grossing of a specimen workflow data related to one or more processes undertaken at grossing station also may be captured and stored to workflow database . For example data such as a user ID associated with an operator specimen IDs specimen status total time in grossing cassette printer operation time workstation operation time success information etc. may be captured step . Such data may be processed by grossing module and stored at workflow database . One of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that more or less data may be captured based on factors such as administrative desires and cost among others.

Following grossing of a specimen the specimen maybe processed and embedded at tissue processing and embedding station step . At tissue processing and embedding station a specimen may undergo a preservation process called fixation among other things. Fixation may be performed to slow and or stop natural tissue degradation and may be performed automatically in a automatic tissue processor not shown . Automatic tissue processor may dehydrate the tissue and followed by a cleaning step with an organic agent e.g. xylene .

During the process of embedding a dehydrated specimen may be embedded in a substance such as for example paraffin wax. This paraffinization may be performed using a mould to make blocks including the specimen to facilitate the sectioning process step . Proper tissue orientation may be desirable when making a paraffin block such that sectioning may be performed correctly.

Prior to departure from tissue processing and embedding station specimens may be sorted according to unique ID number and a priority. Such sorting may be facilitated by one or more laboratory devices associated with tissue processing and embedding station . For example a barcode reader may be used to scan cassettes for tracking and administration of specimens and the data logged to workflow database .

During processing and embedding of a specimen workflow data related to one or more processes undertaken at tissue processing and embedding station may be captured and stored to workflow database step . For example data such as a user ID associated with an operator specimen IDs specimen status dehydration time in the automatic tissue processor wash time in the automatic tissue processor quantity of organic solvent used paraffin block orientation and processing success information among other things may be captured. Particularly automated devices such as an automated processor and dehydrator may provide additional information and data related to processing undertaken at tissue processing and embedding station . Such data may be processed by tissue processing module and stored at workflow database . One of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that more or less data may be captured based on factors such as administrative desires and cost among others.

Once processed and embedded a specimen may sectioned at sectioning station step . At sectioning station embedded tissue blocks may be cut into thin sections using a cutting device for example a microtome. Tissue sections may have a thickness of 3 4 microns and a number of slides per specimen may be generated from the sections made by the cutting device. The sections may be collected on slides e.g. glass slides and labeled utilizing one or more bar code slide labeling machines. Such machines may be automated and may utilize information read from a specimen cassette barcode or other container for purposes of producing one or more slide labels. The number of slides being determined by such things as staining requirements e.g. routine staining H E immunohistochemistry IHC and or special stains success rates etc.

Once the sections are placed on labeled slides the slides may be placed in a slide rack and dried in a heating device such as for example an oven for baking to ensure that a specimen adheres to a microscope slide throughout processing. Pretreatment such as deparaffinization i.e. heating and or dissolving paraffin to remove it from the sample may also take place. Other pretreatment may include antigen retrieval to uncover epitopes for IHC staining or to denature DNA for molecular staining. As slides are moved from station to station heating device racks may be the same racks or substantially similar racks to those used in one or more steps at staining stations . This may aid in shortening tissue handling times and minimizing errors.

Cassettes with remaining specimen material may then be cataloged and saved in boxes. Barcodes affixed to slides departing from sectioning station may be scanned and information logged to workflow database and or other suitable location along with other workflow data related to processes performed at sectioning station step . For example data such as a user ID associated with an operator specimen IDs specimen status slide count storage rack ID time in heating device heating device temperature storage box location e.g. for remaining specimen and slide preparation success information among other things may be captured. Particularly automated devices such as an automated microtome may provide additional information and data related to processing undertaken at sectioning station . Such data may be processed by sectioning module and stored at workflow database . One of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that more or less data may be captured based on factors such as administrative desires and cost among others.

Once a specimen has been sectioned the labeled slides may be stained at one or more of H E staining station advanced staining station and or special staining station step . In some embodiments staining may be performed on an automated stainer with minimal operator interaction. In other embodiments particularly where advanced staining e.g. IHC and special stains are desired manual staining and or automated staining systems may be used e.g. Artisan Staining System by Dako . Once stained slides may be cover slipped with a solution depending on a mounting media. Slides belonging to particular patient cases may be collected and checked for proper staining.

Barcodes associated with slides stained at H E staining station advanced staining station and or special staining station may be scanned and related information logged to workflow server and or other suitable location along with other workflow data related to processes performed at H E staining station advanced staining station and or special staining station step . For example data such as a user ID associated with an operator specimen IDs specimen status slide count slide IDs stains utilized amount of each stain used time at staining station slide rack ID and slide staining success information among other things may be captured. Particularly automated devices such as an autostainer may provide additional information and data related to the staining processes undertaken at H E staining station advanced staining station and or special staining station . Such data may then be processed by staining module and stored at workflow database . One of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that more or less data may be captured based on factors such as administrative desires and cost among others.

Following staining specimen slides may be processed at imaging station step . Processes at imaging station may include visual examination of the stained slides through a microscope and or other similar device to perform diagnosis and or prognosis. Barcodes associated with the stained slides may be scanned and data stored to workflow database by staining module . This may enable an identified specimen to be recalled to for example allow configuration of an imager and or to remotely display imaging data. In some embodiments a specimen slide imager may be an automated imager e.g. ACIS III by Dako . Specimen slides may be loaded into the automated imager using the current slide rack or alternatively a special slide rack configured for the imager. An imager may be calibrated and configured to send various data to workflow server . As specimens are scanned an image may be displayed on a workstation display. Further a report template may allow reports to be generated from the image data and may support a range of administrative requirements. An operator may then fill in the remaining information on the report e.g. through a keyboard at the workstation .

Barcodes associated with slides examined and imaged at imaging station may be scanned and related information logged to workflow database along with other workflow data related to processes performed at imaging station step . For example data such as a user ID associated with an operator specimen IDs specimen status slide IDs image data diagnosis prognosis time to image and imaging success information among other things may be captured. Particularly automated devices such as an automated imager may provide additional information and data related to the staining processes undertaken at imaging station . Such data may then be processed by imaging module and stored at workflow database . One of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that more or less data may be captured based on factors such as administrative desires and cost among others.

Referring to at each of stations supply data may be captured. Supply data may include for example information related to supplies used in lab operations. For example supply data may include the number of available slides coverslips specimen containers cassettes and other containers quantity of available reagents solvents buffers and other fluids available quantity of paraffin wax amount of available labels paper slide racks printer cartridges and other information related to supplies utilized in laboratory operations. Supply data may be entered manually via a data entry device by a user into a database e.g. workflow database . Alternatively supply data may be entered automatically into workflow database via signals received from one or more sensors configured to track supplies. For example a pressure sensor may be used to measure a volume of reagent or other fluid remaining in a laboratory device such as a stainer. A bar code reader or RFID for example may be used to track supplies such as the number of remaining slides or containers. It is contemplated that sensors may be associated with one or more modules . One of ordinary skill in the art will recognize upon consideration of the present disclosure that numerous other types sensors or methods may be utilized to track supplies and those described herein are intended as exemplary.

In some embodiments consistent with the present disclosure it may be desirable to provide a computer based interface to for example administrators sales staff trainers etc. for purposes of visualizing workflow potential workflow improvements and laboratory economic data among other things associated with a physical laboratory. This interface may be implemented as a virtual laboratory displayed on a display associated with a computer workstation e.g. management workstation and or other suitable devices. Utilizing systems and methods of the present disclosure implementations of such an interface may be realized. While describing below reference also may be made to .

Utilizing systems and methods discussed herein one or more workflows may be modeled. A modeled workflow may be based on data collected utilizing methods such as those described with regard to or alternatively modeling may include creating data for a workflow for example for purposes of demonstrating improvements that may be obtained when changes in workflow are made. One of ordinary skill in the art will recognize upon consideration of the present disclosure that numerous other workflows may be possible and those described herein are intended as exemplary.

An example of a virtual laboratory component is shown . Virtual laboratory may include one or more virtual laboratory stations including for example virtual receiving and accessioning station virtual grossing station virtual tissue processing and embedding station virtual sectioning station virtual staining station and virtual imaging station . Virtual laboratory may also include a specimen indicator a workflow indicator and one or more active components associated with virtual laboratory e.g. economic data access component enabling receipt of a user selection. Virtual laboratory may be associated with a physical laboratory. For example one or more of the virtual laboratory stations e.g. accessioning station virtual grossing station embedding station etc. may correspond to and represent a station in a physical laboratory i.e. 1 1 correspondence .

It is also contemplated that virtual laboratory may be associated with and represent a plurality of physical laboratories. Each virtual laboratory station may be associated with and represent a plurality of physical laboratory stations i.e. 1 n correspondence . For example virtual accessioning station may represent and provide data received from a plurality of physical accessioning stations. The data may include workflow data economic data supply data etc. When virtual laboratory is associated with a plurality of physical laboratories the data provided by virtual laboratory and each virtual laboratory station may be an aggregation of data received from the physical laboratory stations. The aggregation of data may be represented as an average a weighted average a median or another representation of an aggregation of data known in the art. Alternatively or additionally virtual laboratory stations may provide representative data for each individual physical station. For example a user may be provided with data from an individual physical accessioning station out of a plurality of physical accessioning stations by selecting the desired station from for example a list or pull down menu. It is contemplated that the data provided by virtual laboratory and virtual laboratory stations may capture multiple dimensions e.g. time and location . In one embodiment data may be provided for one or more locations e.g. a single physical station multiple physical stations a single physical laboratory or multiple physical laboratories at given time point or over a period of time.

In addition to being a link to a physical laboratory virtual laboratory may be utilized as a training educational or sales tool. In this form virtual laboratory may utilize stored or simulated data to produce exemplary workflows.

Elements of virtual laboratory will now be discussed in greater detail. Specimen indicator may be configured to indicate a specimen location a specimen station and a specimen flow in relation to the one or more virtual laboratory stations. Such indication may be accomplished by applying various visual techniques to specimen indicator . For example where a data request indicates a desire to determine a current status associated with a specimen request processing module may utilize specimen tracking module to obtain data about a requested specimen. In response GUI module and specimen tracking module may cause specimen indicator to be located in a virtual laboratory station consistent with the actual physical location of the specimen for which status was requested. Further as noted above a specimen may maintain different states depending on what laboratory stations have processed it. For example depending upon which laboratory station has processed the specimen the specimen may be received in jars placed in a cassette cut to slides etc. Specimen indicator may thus indicate the current state of the specimen as being in either a jar a cassette or a slide state. Moreover specimen indicator may thus become animated to demonstrate motion through virtual laboratory and may change in appearance based on a current state of a specimen with regard to a laboratory station. For example specimen indicator may depict a jar and request form when the specimen has not yet entered virtual grossing station . Upon entering grossing station specimen indicator may depict a barcoded cassette to indicate the specimen s new state. Upon arrival at virtual sectioning station specimen indicator may then depict a glass slide. One of ordinary skill will recognize that such depictions or appearances are exemplary only and other appearances may be applied to specimen indicator to demonstrate a specimen s state among other things.

Further in some embodiments consistent with an anatomical pathology laboratory specimen indicator may be configured to accurately depict changes in the state quantity and or workflow of different types of specimens. For example at grossing station an organ or a large mass of tissue may be measured photographed or described e.g. by its size condition or appearance . Grossing station may also perform different physical processes depending on types of tissue associated with the specimen. Specimen indicator and text component described in more detail with respect to may thus be configured to depict differences in the specimen s state and or its position in the workflow.

In further embodiments sections of tissue to be processed may be identified and derived from an organ or larger mass of tissue. In such cases some variance in processing times or quality may occur depending on the technician s skill and experience among other things. Operational modules may be configured to measure statistical data obtained from the respective laboratory stations and analytical modules may be configured to analyze the statistical data to provide high level statistical trend data. For example management station may display statistical trend data showing a grossing quality and time for each technician working at grossing station .

Additionally at sectioning station sections of a tissue specimen may be cut floated on a water bath and then scooped onto a slide. However sometimes a fold tear or air bubble in the tissue section may form as it is put on the slide requiring that the slide be discarded and a new slide prepared. Operational modules may thus record the time between slides or even the number of slides that had to be replaced. Analytical modules may thus process such high level quality control information for display at management station .

In other embodiments at any of stations and laboratory environment may use color coding or other visual cues associated with tissue cassettes slides labels and other containers to identify specimens or types of specimens. Since different types of specimens may follow a different workflow specimen indicator may be configured to accurately reflect the particular appearance and workflow of each specimen type. By doing so systems consistent with the present disclosure may visualize the workflow for purposes of technician training or quality control.

Virtual laboratory stations may be configured to represent laboratory stations associated with a physical laboratory and may enable access to data laboratory devices and descriptions of processes associated with the physical laboratory stations among other things. Virtual laboratory stations may also include one or more active components enabling a user selection e.g. a clickable area associated with virtual laboratory . For example virtual receiving and accessioning station displayed within virtual lab may provide a virtual representation of receiving station and accessioning station . Access to data obtained during steps and of may be enabled through virtual receiving and accessioning station as well as descriptions of processes undertaken at an exemplary physical receiving station and accessioning station . Alternatively physical receiving station and accessioning station may be represented as individual virtual stations as desired. An active component associated with virtual receiving and accessioning station may therefore be enabled to receive a user selection e.g. user mouse click related to virtual receiving and accessioning station and or other virtual laboratory stations step . In some embodiments an active component may enable a user to select within an active component associated with virtual lab to first access information related to a virtual laboratory station and then to select again for drilling down to a supplemental view of a selected virtual laboratory station.

Upon initial selection of a virtual laboratory station specimen indicator may follow workflow indicator to the virtual laboratory station selected by the user and active components associated with the selected virtual laboratory may become enabled. Alternatively such active areas may be enabled continuously.

Active component may allow a user to click for purposes of drilling down to supplemental component view e.g. a more detailed view associated with virtual receiving and accessioning station . Upon receiving such a drill down request step yes a supplemental component view of a selected virtual lab element may be displayed flow passes to . is a detailed block view of a method for providing drilldown views of virtual laboratory stations. For example where a user has selected an active component associated with a virtual laboratory station of virtual laboratory e.g. virtual receiving and accessioning station step the interface may be modified based on the user s selection step . For example upon selecting a supplemental component associated with virtual receiving and accessioning station the interface may be modified by interface modules operational modules and analytical modules among others to provide a supplemental component view of virtual receiving and accessioning station step .

Return component may allow a user selection indicating a return to a view level above the currently selected view. For example where a user has selected an active component indicating a drilldown view of a virtual laboratory station from virtual laboratory return component may cause interface modules to return to a view of virtual laboratory within an interface. Similarly where a user has drilled down two levels to a supplemental view of a supplemental component view of a laboratory workstation return component may allow the user to return to the first supplemental component view of the laboratory workstation.

Specimen indicator in a supplemental component view may be configured to provide information related to a theoretical current state of a specimen in the selected virtual laboratory station. For example as noted above specimens arriving to receiving and accessioning stations and may be in jars and may be accompanied by a request form indicating desired tests for the specimen. As shown in such a state may be indicated by specimen indicator . In addition various effects may be utilized with regard to specimen indicator to assist in demonstrating a workflow. For example within a supplement component view such as that shown in specimen indicator may become animated to demonstrate motion through the virtual laboratory station among other things.

A virtual laboratory station may also have one or more active components enabling a user to select one or more distinct supplemental components associated with a supplemental component virtual laboratory station. For example show an exemplary virtual staining station . As shown in upon selecting virtual staining station step a user may be presented with a supplemental component view providing multiple active components allowing user selection of a supplemental view of a virtual H E staining station a virtual advanced staining station a virtual special staining station and kits and reagents among others step . Because additional drilldown options may be available from this laboratory station component step yes a user may again make a selection of another active components e.g. active components step . Upon selection of an additional active component e.g. a user may again drilldown to a supplemental component view of a laboratory station e.g. H E staining station as shown in step . Once drilled down to a desired level step no a user may continue to step . One of skill in the art will recognize upon review of the present disclosure that numerous other configurations are possible. For example prior to reaching a desired level associated with a laboratory station selections may be available to allow a user to view information associated with higher level components.

Once a desired supplemental component has been reached information related to that supplemental component may be displayed as well as additional active components which may enable another user selection related to the supplemental component view associated with a virtual laboratory station step . As described above a specimen may undergo one or more processes at each physical lab station. Where such additional information related to a laboratory station is available additional active components may include a collection of active components configured to enable a user selection with regard to a predetermined number of processing stages associated with the selected laboratory station step yes . Upon receiving a user selection of an additional active component specimen indicator may perform a visual indication of a process associated with the selection e.g. move to a particular area of the station and workflow server may cause additional information related to the selected virtual laboratory station to be displayed at text component step . Information displayed may include for example details of the process performed laboratory devices utilized in the process methods for improving the process and any other desired information related to the selected laboratory station.

For example as shown in additional active components may include an arrow component and two numbered components e.g. and . Where a user desires to see a step by step of the workflow associated with the current laboratory station and obtain related information to each step the user may select the arrow component as desired and each process in the current laboratory station may be displayed within the interface and described in text component . Alternatively if user wishes to review an individual process associated with the currently selected virtual laboratory station the user may click one of the available numbered components e.g. 1 and or 2 to be taken directly to a data and description associated with the selected step.

Each virtual laboratory station may include one or more active components allowing receipt of a user selection in accordance with step . For examples related to each laboratory station see B B B C and B C. Note that although exemplary active components are shown as sub areas of each virtual laboratory station active components may include the full virtual laboratory station area or partial portions of a virtual laboratory station area.

In some embodiments user selections may be enabled for viewing data associated with an actual physical specimen present in the selected virtual lab station. For example depict views of an exemplary virtual imaging station . Image data associated with a specimen which has been imaged at imaging station may be available for online viewing from within virtual imaging station . A user may therefore select specimen viewing component and may then be provided image and other data obtained at imaging station related to a particular specimen. Similarly a user may select to view a report for a particular specimen e.g. including diagnosis prognosis data . Where data for such a report is available e.g. stored in workflow database virtual lab station may include specimen report component . Upon selecting specimen report component a user may be provided a report for example via analytical modules .

Similar functionality may be available at each virtual laboratory station associated with virtual laboratory although not shown. For example slide data associated with a physical specimen currently sectioned at sectioning station may be available for online viewing from within virtual sectioning station . One of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that similar options may be available from within all virtual laboratory stations as desired.

Further virtual laboratory stations may be configured to demonstrate a workflow and workflow data associated with related physical laboratory stations using visual components and cues such as zoom in effects zoom out effects popup dialogs drilldown effects text cues indicator arrows and or motion effects. is an exemplary depiction of management workstation in virtual laboratory display mode. For example workflow indicator may highlight a modeled workflow through virtual laboratory stations associated with virtual laboratory . Upon receiving a user selection of a virtual laboratory station e.g. virtual imaging station specimen indicator may become animated and move in accord with the currently modeled workflow indicated by workflow indicator . As specimen indicator follows workflow indicator through each virtual laboratory station specimen indicator may change state based on a state at each virtual laboratory station. For example where a user selects virtual imaging station specimen indicator may move into virtual receiving and accessioning station and appear as a jar with request list. Specimen indicator may pause there for a predetermined period and then move to virtual grossing station . At grossing station specimen indicator may change appearance to a labeled specimen cassette. Specimen indicator may again pause and then move to virtual tissue processing and embedding station where its appearance may change to indicate a paraffinized specimen block on top of a labeled specimen cassette. Specimen indicator may again pause and then move to virtual sectioning station where its appearance may change to indicate a labeled glass slide. Specimen indicator may again pause and then move to staining station where its appearance may change to indicate a colored and labeled glass slide. Specimen indicator may again pause and then move to virtual imaging station where its appearance may change to indicate a labeled printout or report of an imaged slide. More or fewer indications of workflow may occur based on a modeled workflow and administrator desires.

Virtual laboratory stations may be configured to demonstrate supply data associated with physical laboratory stations. As shown in to demonstrate the supply data virtual laboratory stations may use a visual component and or cue e.g. zoom in effects zoom out effects popup dialogs drilldown effects text cues indicator arrows and or motion effects . It is contemplated that the supply data may be represented textually e.g. reagent level 30 35 mL or graphically e.g. using a chart bar meter color etc. . In one embodiment a popup dialog may be associated with a particular laboratory device. For example popup dialog may be associated with a stainer in virtual laboratory . Popup dialog may appear next to and indicate the reagent levels within the physical stainer using a bar graphic i.e. height of bar changes as level of reagent changes . In another example a refrigerator located in a virtual laboratory station may flash if the supplies contained in the physical refrigerator fall below a threshold. Specifically the refrigerator may flash yellow if the supplies in the physical refrigerator fall below a first threshold and the refrigerator may flash red if the supplies in the physical refrigerator fall below a second threshold. The laboratory devices located in virtual laboratory stations may also include one or more active components which upon selection allow a user to order more supplies in desired quantities. For example the active component may link to a popup window with data entry fields usable for entering a quantity and or type of a desired supply. The order for more supplies may be communicated via network to a supply room or an outside vendor.

Virtual laboratory stations may also be configured to allow control of one or more laboratory devices. In one embodiment shown in each laboratory device displayed in virtual laboratory stations may include an active component that causes to appear or links to a control panel configured to control operation of the laboratory device. For example an active component associated with virtual stainer located in virtual staining station may link to a control panel . Control panel may include one or more active components configured to control operation of a physical stainer located in a physical staining station. Alternatively rather than linking to control panel active component may link to a separate application configured to operate the laboratory device e.g. a stainer software . Selecting the active component associated with the laboratory device may cause a separate application to spawn in a new window e.g. spawn in place of control panel . This may allow the user to link to and run separate instrument specific applications that may not be integrated into virtual laboratory e.g. software packages from various manufacturers . It is contemplated that any application that can run in a window may be spawned in virtual laboratory and or virtual laboratory stations .

Virtual laboratory and virtual laboratory stations may be configured to display warning data related to a warning event. Warning data may be provided in any view of virtual laboratory such as for example at a high level view of virtual laboratory e.g. at a view highlighting one of virtual laboratory stations e.g. or at a supplemental view of a laboratory station e.g. . Warning data may be provided using visual components and cues. As shown in a visual component or cue e.g. a popup dialog may appear in virtual laboratory and or virtual laboratory stations providing data regarding the source and nature of the warning event. Popup dialog may indicate for example that a laboratory device is being used outside of desired operating parameters or that a disruption in workflow is likely to occur. Warning events may include for example an incubation time running too long expiration of a reagent in a stainer a cassette printer running out of cassettes during a run a power outage a stainer cover being left open for too long a temperature inside a stainer being outside of a desired range and other warning events known in the art. For example popup dialog may appear on virtual laboratory and indicate that a temperature within a stainer in virtual staining station is outside of a desired range. Popup dialog may also provide a link to virtual staining station . Selection of link may cause virtual staining station to display. As seen in control panel may appear next to the stainer in virtual staining station which includes one or more active components configured to control operation of the stainer e.g. allows the user to shut down the stainer discontinue the current staining operation etc. . It is also contemplated that workflow server may automatically control the laboratory device in order to remedy the cause of the warning. For example workflow server may automatically shut down the stainer if it detects that the stainer is running outside of desired operating conditions.

Virtual laboratory and or virtual laboratory stations may be configured to display service information. At least some of the service information may be derived from sensors associated with the laboratory devices. As shown in in one embodiment of virtual laboratory and or virtual laboratory stations a visual component and or cue may display the service information e.g. indicating a need for servicing of a particular physical laboratory device . Visual component or cue may be associated with one or more active components that allow an operator to take an action e.g. request service from a technician discontinue operation of the laboratory device etc. . For example when a laboratory device such as a stainer needs a diagnostic a pop up window may appear in virtual laboratory and or virtual laboratory stations requesting authorization for a remote diagnostic of the stainer. A user may click on active element in pop up window and provide authorization for the remote diagnostic. Virtual laboratory and or virtual laboratory stations may also request user authorization to run automated servicing functions of the laboratory devices such as auto cleaning functions software update functions etc. It is contemplated that workflow server may also automatically control the servicing of the laboratory devices. For example workflow server may automatically contact a technician to request servicing of a particular laboratory device. Workflow server may request service upon detection of a service issue or upon a scheduled periodic basis.

It is contemplated that servicing status data and or historical servicing data may be displayed in visual component and or cue of virtual laboratory and or virtual laboratory stations . For example a virtual laboratory station may display a last date of service a status of a service request a mean time between failure and other service or service related information for one or more laboratory devices.

Virtual laboratory and virtual laboratory stations may include video functionality. As shown in virtual laboratory and virtual laboratory stations may include one or more active components that link to videos that demonstrate for example an exemplary workflow for a given virtual laboratory station. Virtual laboratory stations may also include one or more active components that link to videos that provide an instructional demonstration of the workflow for a particular laboratory station. Additionally virtual laboratory and or virtual laboratory stations may include links to videos for specific laboratory devices e.g. microscopes stainers barcode readers printers etc. . For example a particular laboratory device may include an active component that links to an instructional video regarding operation of that laboratory device e.g. instructional video regarding operation of a stainer . It is contemplated that the videos may be used for informational training and or instructional purposes.

It is contemplated that virtual laboratory and or virtual laboratory stations may include one or more active components that link to one or more cameras e.g. video cameras still cameras located in the physical laboratory see . Cameras may provide real time video feedback from the physical laboratory. For example an active component related to virtual grossing station may link to and provide live video feedback from a camera located in the physical grossing station. Each virtual laboratory station may link to a camera that is located to observe the related physical laboratory station or stations. Virtual laboratory and or virtual laboratory stations may also link to cameras configured to observe a specific machine or operation. For example virtual laboratory and or virtual laboratory stations may link to a camera that is configured to observe the sample as it passes through a staining operation.

Virtual laboratory virtual laboratory stations and the virtual laboratory devices contained therein may be flexible and allow for reconfiguration. In one embodiment shown in a user may select a reconfiguration mode from a menu associated with virtual laboratory . In reconfiguration mode a user may be able to add or remove laboratory devices from virtual laboratory stations . For example in a given virtual laboratory station a user may be able to replace a high volume label printer with a series of smaller label printers in order to accommodate a corresponding change in the physical laboratory . Similarly a user may also be able to update a model of a virtual stainer in accordance with an updated model of a physical stainer. Additionally a user may be able to perform one or more software updates for existing physical laboratory devices i.e. update the software that operates a given laboratory device . One of ordinary skill in the art will recognize upon consideration of the present disclosure that virtual laboratory may be configured to allow for numerous other types of updates and modifications and those described herein are intended as exemplary.

Returning to workflow server may receive a request for an analysis of data associated with a physical laboratory represented by virtual laboratory e.g. from management workstation step yes . is an exemplary depiction of management workstation in data summary display mode following receipt of a user selection to view management and or economic data. Similar interfaces may be provided by workflow server at any desired location via network or other suitable method.

Virtual laboratory may include an analysis active component enabling a selection by a user indicating a desire for management and or economic data associated with a physical laboratory. Such information may include for example data related to at least one laboratory device a job identifier a time per operation a user identifier a success identifier laboratory device service information laboratory device status physical laboratory economic data lean workflow data and or potential improvement data. Such data may be provided by analytical modules operational modules and interface modules via workflow server . It is also contemplated that external data may be provided via a connection of workflow server to an outside network. For example workflow server may connect to outside servers configured to provide data from additional physical laboratories.

Alternatively a user may wish to view a broader dataset associated with a physical laboratory. In such an example a request for data may be received where a user has not selected a particular laboratory station from virtual laboratory step no . Therefore analytical modules may retrieve data from workflow database for the entire physical lab step .

Retrieved data may be processed using various data analysis algorithms provided with analytical modules step . For example analysis may be performed on laboratory station specific workflow data to provide results related to operator efficiency machine efficiency and average cost per operation at a particular laboratory station. In another example data associated with a physical laboratory may be analyzed to provide an executive summary of operational efficiency through the physical laboratory. Numerous other results may be obtained through analysis of workflow data related to a physical laboratory. For example operational times for a laboratory or laboratory station may be averaged over a time period e.g. a year operator downtime may be determined success rates by operator and station may be obtained and errors may be analyzed on a station and laboratory basis among other things.

Following analysis of workflow data according a user request workflow server may provide the analyzed data to the user according to the user s selections step . Workflow server may utilize interface modules and data analytical modules among other things for providing the analyzed data to a user.

Additional active components may also be provided including for example pushbuttons dropdown lists radio buttons etc. As shown in dropdown components and may enable a user to further customize data displayed in report interface .

Report interface may also include reports comparing the performance of one or more physical labs laboratory stations or laboratory devices to industry standards. In one embodiment workflow server may be configured to receive industry standard data which is used by report interface to create a comparative report. For example the comparative report may display operator efficiency data machine efficiency data cost per operation data time per operation data success rate per time period data etc. as compared to corresponding industry standard data. It is contemplated that the industry standard data may be received directly from competitors from a third party vendor or from any other source. The industry standard data may be an average of competitors in the industry or when available data related to a specific competitor.

Report interface may also include one or more reports displaying quality control information. For example a quality control report may include information on usage of a laboratory device during a given time period a process control diagram mean time between failures information and other quality control information known in the art. The quality control report may include incidents related to specific laboratory devices that resulted in warnings. The quality control report may include the date of the warnings the nature of the warnings the severity of the warnings and other related information. The quality control report may also display trend data related to quality control for the entire lab one or more laboratory stations or one or more laboratory devices over a given period of time.

Upon exiting report interface GUI module may return the modify a display to once again show virtual laboratory interface as shown in or any other suitable interface may be provided step .

One of ordinary skill in the art will recognize upon consideration of the present disclosure that many methods maybe used for analyzing customizing and providing laboratory workflow data to a user. Therefore those methods described herein are not intended to be limiting.

Utilizing systems and methods of the present disclosure it may be possible to model visualize and analyze workflows associated with a physical laboratory. By enabling such modeling visualization and analysis improvements may be made to previously existing laboratory workflows and cost savings among other things may be realized. Further systems and methods of the present disclosure may be utilized as a training tool and or a sales tool for demonstrating workflow and potential improvements to efficiency and reductions in cost through modifications to laboratory workflow.

Other embodiments of the invention will be apparent to those skilled in the art from consideration of the specification and practice of the invention disclosed herein. It is intended that the specification and examples be considered as exemplary only with a true scope and spirit of the invention being indicated by the following claims.

