---

title: Network based application management
abstract: An environment for facilitating the management of content for users associated with specific partner networks is provided. Users may be granted access to such specific partner networks in accordance with each user's affiliation with one or more organizations. In accordance with the above, a content management system facilitates the content/information exchange by accepting software applications from content providers. Additionally, the content management system accepts software application specifications or manifests from partner network administrators. Accordingly, the content management system can audit and recommend actions to users regarding applicable software application based one user organizational associations. Still further, the content management system can facilitate requests from affiliated users for specific types of content that can be forwarded to content providers and later made available to affiliated users.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09396499&OS=09396499&RS=09396499
owner: BMC SOFTWARE, INC.
number: 09396499
owner_city: Houston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120126
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 436 916 filed Jan. 27 2011 the entirety of which is incorporated herein by reference.

Generally described computing devices and communication networks facilitate the collection and exchange of information. In a common application computing devices such as personal computing devices can utilize a wide area communication network generally referred to as the Internet to access content or other data from other computing devices associated with content providing entities. The type of content exchanged between the computing devices can vary according to the specific design function of the computing device and the type of content provided by the content providing entity.

Users can request data from a content providing entity that is delivered to one or more computing devices in a relatively real time basis. For example users can transmit a request or initiate a transaction that results in the downloading or streaming of content to a computing device. Typically the content providing entity would initiate such a transfer upon receipt of the request from the computing device.

Individual users can identify appropriate content providing entities in a number of ways. In one aspect users can conduct searches via the communication network or other resources to identify appropriate content providing entities and initiate content requests. For example a user may access a network resource such as Web page configured specifically to offer content for specific types of computing devices operating systems software applications and the like. The specifically configured network resources are often referred to as marketplaces or stores. Depending on the type of content providing entity involved the results of such user initiated searches can vary. As such a user may have difficulty identifying content providers that can provide specific content. Additionally a user may have difficulty selecting from a group of content providers that are known to provide specified content. Similarly content providers content publishers may have difficulty identifying users interested in obtaining content or otherwise targeting specific classes of users or user types.

Even if content providing entities and content consumers are known to one another the exchange of information between a content provider and a user of a device is typically individualized in that the individual user can control which applications are maintained on a device. For example individuals may be establish an individual online relationship or confirm a relationship with network resources in order to exchange information or download software applications. An example of such embodiment corresponds to social network Web sites in which individual users select the software applications that are downloaded or updated on their computing device such as a mobile device. However individualized content delivery approaches can become inefficient for facilitating the exchange of information between a user and a content providing entity based on the user s affiliation with an organization such as a corporation. For example an organization cannot typically manage the software applications that are made available to users for downloading via a network based marketplace or store.

Generally described the present application is directed to an environment for sharing information. Specifically the present application is directed toward an environment for facilitating the management of content such as software applications executable code and the like for users associated with or otherwise affiliated with specific partner networks. Illustratively users are granted access to such specific partner networks in accordance with each user s affiliation with one or more organizations. Illustratively affiliation with a partner network can include but is not limited to employment relationships paid or unpaid memberships registrations and customer relationships.

In accordance with an illustrative embodiment an affiliation with specific partner networks facilitates access to software applications that are selected or offered for download to affiliated user devices. Additionally access to the specific partner network also illustratively facilitates management of software applications on the device by removal or modification of software application already loaded or stored on the device. In accordance with the above a content management system facilitates the content information exchange by accepting software applications from content providers. In this aspect the content providers do not need to establish individual relationships with the end users and do not need to manage license fees terms of service etc. Additionally the content management system accepts software application specifications or manifests from partner network administrators. Accordingly the content management system can audit and recommend actions to users regarding applicable software application based one user organizational associations. Still further the content management system can facilitate requests from affiliated users or unaffiliated users for specific types of content that can be forwarded to content providers and later made available to affiliated users.

As described above access to software applications is made available to individual users according to their affiliation with one or more specific partner networks via access to a network based resource. Specifically individual provider partner networks can maintain one or more information portals that interact with affiliated users for assessing software applications currently maintained on user devices for identifying whether one or more software applications should be downloaded or for identifying whether one or more software applications should be removed or modified from the device. The information portal can then facilitate the removal modification or addition of software applications on the user device. Additionally as described above the information portal can receive information from user devices regarding suggestions or configurations for software applications that are currently not available for download.

In one aspect access to the information can be limited to at least a subsegment of users affiliated with an authorized consumer partner network. The subsets of information made available to such subsegment of users can be generally referred to as a partner program. For example a first user affiliated with an organization may be associated with a partner program designed for a specific department within an organization such as an accounting department. A second user affiliated with the same larger organization but corresponding to a different department may be associated with a different partner program. Illustratively the partner programs may maintain different software applications may be associated with different security or terms of use for the same software application and the like. Accordingly while access to a partner network information portal may be based on affiliation information the information made available to user devices may vary according to types or categories of affiliation e.g. a premium paid membership vs. a free entry level membership .

Users affiliated with the authorized consumer partner network can then gain access to the partner program by virtue of their affiliation. Specifically individual user access rights or other permissions are managed at least in part in accordance with the access rights other permissions attributed to the identified affiliated partner network. Illustratively the affiliation may be based on a user communication address such as an email address device identifiers such as custom chipsets or embedded hardware identifiers or other electronic identifiers such as electronic tokens. Additionally affiliation information may also be based on global unique identifiers locally unique identifiers group based identifiers security passwords biometric information and the like.

Although the present application will be described with regard to specific system configurations system components illustrative interaction and illustrative downloadable content one skilled in the relevant art will appreciate that the embodiments disclosed are illustrative in nature and should not be construed as limiting.

The content management environment can also include one or more content providers for generating content such as software applications or other executable code. The content providers provide the content for delivery to the user of the partner networks via the communication network . A particular content provider may not correspond to any particular physical network of computing devices. Rather at least some content providers can relate to logical grouping of individual computing devices without any relation to the physical configuration or physical communication networking of the logically grouped computing devices. Additionally one or more partner networks and content providers may correspond to a common organization or group of computing providing functionality both as a partner network for managing software applications to affiliated user devices and content provider for delivery content to partner networks.

With continued reference to the content management environment includes a content management system for processing information between partner network components and content providers . The content management system includes an interface component for obtaining information from users in each of the partner network components . The content management system also includes a data processing component for processing information request from users and generating specific information portals or configurations of information portals based on affiliation information or affiliation information types as defined by specific partner network components .

The content management system can utilize a user profile data store for maintaining individual user profiles. The content management system can also include a partner profile data store for maintaining partner profiles that will be applied to or correspond to the information portals that will be made available to each user at least in part based on their affiliation with the partner network component . The content management system can further include an application data store for maintaining content such as software code executable code configuration information etc. provided by content providers and to be shared with other partner network components . Still further the content management system includes an authorization data store for maintaining information related to access rights such as security information identification information terms of use and the like for content provided by content providers to partner networks .

One skilled in the relevant art will appreciate that the data stores illustrated in may be maintained in a single data store or distributed among several data stores. Additionally one or more of the data stores may be implemented as Web services accessible via the communication network such as via an Application Programming Interface API . Still further as will be explained in greater detail below the data stores can be implemented in accordance with multi tenant embodiments. In such embodiments software applications may be collectively stored or maintained in the data stores for a particular user or partner program component . At the same time different selections of software applications or different configurations of software applications may be made available depending on the particular affiliations environments utilized by the user to access the partner program data. Additionally although the content management system is illustrated as a grouping of components and data stores one skilled in the relevant art will appreciate that the

With reference now to block diagrams of interactions or relationships between illustrative partner network components for utilization within the content management system will be described. As illustrated in individual users may be associated either physically or through a network connection with a computing device . The computing devices utilized by the individual users of each partner network can correspond to a wide variety of devices or components that are capable of initiating receiving or facilitating communications over a communication network including but not limited to personal computing devices electronic book readers hand held computing devices integrated components for inclusion in computing devices consumer electronics appliances electronic devices for inclusion in vehicles or machinery mobile telephones modems personal digital assistants laptop computers gaming devices and the like.

Based on organizational criteria the users are eventually associated with one or more partner network components illustratively partner network components A and B. The organizational criteria can be based on employment criteria subscriptions inferential criteria memberships customer relationships and the like. To determine the partner network component affiliations and as illustrated in each computing device is affiliated at a first level with one or more organizations . In turn each organization can further correspond to additional levels of organizational criteria such as organizations . Accordingly individual users can be affiliated with a number of organizational entities according to vertical hierarchies. Although partner network components A and B are illustrated with regard to a three tiered organizational hierarchy one skilled in the relevant art will appreciate that a partner network component may have one or more hierarchies and that each partner network component may have different organization structures or utilize different organizational criteria to define organizational hierarchies.

Turning now to in addition to classification or affiliation of users to one or more organizations in an illustrative embodiment provider partner network component information may be provided to users affiliated with one or more organizations with varying scope. Specifically in an illustrative embodiment partner network information may be characterized into one or more logical networks based on classifications of users. For example a public network may be defined for the general population of users associated with a particular partner network component or all users of the content management system . In another example a private network may be defined that limits users according to their affiliated partner network component . Additionally the private networks can further subdivide users within a partner network component e.g. employees vs. executives vs. top management .

As illustrated in a particular provider partner network component has defined three logical networks . Similar to each computing device is affiliated with one or more organizations . The first level organizations can further be affiliated in accordance with a hierarchical structure. With regard to logical network the public network all users affiliated with a partner network component may have access. With regard to logical networks and a more limited subset of users would have access to the partner information. In one embodiment each user may be forced into a single user characterization e.g. either employee executive or top management . In another embodiment users may have multiple characterizations e.g. all top management are executives and employees all executives are also employees and everyone is an employee . Thus a specific user may access partner information in different ways or access different partner information depending on the user characterization.

With reference now to block diagrams of the content management environment of illustrating the provisioning of content for inclusion in information portals will be described. With reference to a content provider generates new application program availability information that is transmitted over the communication network to the content management system . Illustratively the new application program availability information can be facilitated by access to a network resource such as a Web site provided by the content management system . The content management system processes the new application program availability information by obtaining information that will be utilized to evaluate the provided software application by partner network administrators. Examples of the type of information that will be included in a new application program can include but are not limited to contact information descriptive information security information pricing information licensing information identification of particular partner networks and the like. The software application can be included in the new application program availability information or access can be provided to applicable software application programs.

After obtaining and processing the new application program availability information the content management system then determines partner network authorization information. Illustratively the authorization information can correspond to various aspects related to the identification of which partner networks may provide the application program. In one aspect the authorization information relates to the specification by the content providers of which partner network components may have access to the software application and the terms of such access. For example the authorization information can establish that specific authorized partner network components will only be able to access a subset of the program information based a number of available licenses or other restrictions set by the content provider . Still further the authorization information can also establish different subsets of program information according to characterization of users affiliated with the specified partner network component . For example the content provider can specify various levels of service e.g. gold silver and bronze that dictate that type of software application or support that the users will received. As discussed above users associated with such partner networks will then be limited as to which software application or version of a software application will be provided via the information portal.

Based on the identification of which partner networks may have availability to the software applications the content management system provides new application program availability information to one or more partner networks . The new application program availability information can include the information provided by the content provider as well as additional information generated or otherwise obtained from the content management system . The new application program availability information can include information that can facilitate the selection of new application programs including but not limited to pricing software application and content provider ratings other reputation information content provider history general or specific relationship information e.g. the number of other partner networks that have offered the software application for download deadline timelines marketing materials integration information and the like.

With reference to in embodiments in which a partner network selects a software application for inclusion in one or more information portals the partner network transmits software application selection and configuration information to the content management system . Generally the software application selection and configuration information can include information that relates to the specification by the partner networks of software applications that the users affiliated with the partner networks may have and the terms of such access. In one example the software application selection and configuration information can establish which users or types of users affiliated with the partner network will be able to access software application program. In another example the software application selection and configuration information can also establish different subsets of software application program for subset of users affiliated with the partner network. As discussed above users associated with such partner networks will then be limited as to which software application or version of a software application will be provided via the information portal. In a further example the software application selection and configuration information can include software manifests or configurations that not identify which software applications are required to be loaded onto a device which software application are prohibited on a device and which software applications may be optional. The authorization information may be keyed to specific software devices manufacturers users operating systems and the like. Still further the software application selection and configuration information can include a specification of pricing terms or software licenses that dictate the financial considerations to be incurred by the partner network or users of the partner network if the software download occurs.

Once all the software application selection and configuration information is gathered the content management system can then send confirmation to the content provider and partner networks . Additionally the content management system can initiate notifications to the user of the partner network component via the communication network that content is available. Illustratively the notification can correspond to any one of a variety of notification methods and communication media including but not limited to electronic mail short message service multi media message service micro blogs blogs and the like.

With reference now to a block diagram of the content management environment of illustrating the sharing of content between devices associated with the partner network component will be described. As illustrated in a user associated with a partner network component generates a new information portal request which is transmitted over the communication network to the content management system . Illustratively the new information portal request can be facilitated by access to a network resource such as a Web site provided by the content management system . An illustrative network resource will be described below. The content management system processes the new information portal requires by associating the client with at least one partner network component .

Based on the association of at least one partner network component the content management system then associates information portal identifiers with the particular client request. Specifically the content management system determines the information portal identifiers authorized for the partner network s associated with the user. Based on this association the content management system then provides the user through a client computing device with an information portal that provides the user access to software application executable code or other content that have been made available based on the user s affiliation with partner networks . In one example the content management system can cause the generation of user interfaces on a client computing device associated with the requesting user. In another example the content management system can cause the automatic downloading of software to the client computing device or other user device. In a further example the content management system can cause an audit of a client computing device for determination of available software applications or for determination of whether prohibited software applications should be removed or modified.

In an illustrative embodiment the content management system can filter the potentially applicable software applications according to the partner network profile of the associated partner network components . In one aspect the content management system can filter identified program information according to organizational affiliation information associated with a user. For example assume a content provider generates multiple versions or mutually exclusive software applications that may be made available to a partner network such as a full version and a limited functionality version of a software application. In one aspect the content provider can specify criteria such as business rules such that users associated with specific partner network components may be limited to one version. For example if the criteria specify that a particular partner network component may only have access to limited version of the software application all users associated with that specific partner network component would be provided access only to the limited version. Accordingly the content management system would filter or otherwise prevent the full version from appearing as an available download for user devices.

In another aspect the content management system can further filter the identified program information according to additional organizational affiliation information associated with a user or a partner network component affiliated with a user. With reference to the previous example regarding the full and limited version of a software application assume that users associated with the partner network component can be characterized as public users a first level of users and a second level of users. Depending on the characterization of the user or the user s affiliation with the partner network component the user would be further limited as to which version of a software application would be made available. As previously discussed in one illustrative example users associated with different departments within the same organization may be provided different software manifests or software configurations. Accordingly the content management system would filter or prevent the display of content in accordance according to the user characterization.

Still further in some embodiments the partner network component may allow one or more users to have multiple user characterizations e.g. a public user and an executive . In this embodiment the content management system would filter the available software applications according to the specific user characterization identified by the content management system. For example an information portal associated with a public user would include different or less software applications than an information portal associated with an executive user even if it was the same user. In still a further embodiment the partner network component may allow one or more users to have multiple users characterizations based on devices accessing the partner networks . For example an information portal associated with a dedicated computing device issued by an organization e.g. a work mobile device could include different software application than an information portal associated with a personal computing device e.g. a personal mobile device .

In still a further embodiment the generated information portal can be utilized to obtain software application requests by the end users or other entities that are processed via the partner networks to the content providers . For example an information portal may include software applications in which no pricing has been set by the content provider and which cannot be downloaded. To obtain a download the user affiliated with the partner network may have to provide additional information such as configuration information that is provided to the content provider . In turn the content provider can customize the software application and subsequently make the software application available via the information portal. In another example information portals may have feedback channels for suggesting new applications or application features that can be provided to the content providers.

In another aspect the content management system can manage the number of software licenses or billing information between the partner networks and content providers . For example the content management system may have a financial relationship with each partner network to be able to charge for information portal use. The content management system can forward at least some portion of the fees charged to the content provider and associated any service charges. In another example the content management system can facilitate referral fees that are charged to content providers for receiving new software application requests or new software application recommendations. Similarly the content management system can forward at least some portion of the fees charged to the partner network and associated any service charges

Turning now to an information portal request processing routine implemented by a content management system will be described. The information portal request processing routine begins at block with the content management system obtaining an information portal request. Illustratively a user associated with the partner network can access a user interface or other network resource provided by the content management system via the communication network . Illustratively the information portal request can include user identification information such as login information cookies etc. Such information may be submitted upon approval specification by the specific user or through the utilization of software application programs such as a browser software application or a dedicated software application provided on a user device.

At block based on the user identification information the content management system obtains client partner affiliations associated with the information portal request. In one embodiment the content management system can maintain the partner network affiliations in the user profile data store . Accordingly the content management system can obtain affiliation information based on the user identification information included in the information portal request.

If the partner network affiliation is not readily available in an illustrative embodiment the content management system can parse information associated with a particular user to obtain identification information. For example the content management system can parse a domain name or host name from user contact information such as an email address to obtain affiliation information. Specifically in one embodiment the content management system can maintain a data store such as a database of domain names that have been associated with partner network components e.g. partner.com partner.com partner.net etc. . Each specific partner network component can register domain names with the content management system . Additionally the content management system can also associate specific domains based on interactions with users known to be affiliated with the partner network component such as through learned behaviors. For example the content management system can add or remove domains based on interactions with users known to be affiliated with specific partner network components .

In another embodiment the content management system can parse email addresses associated with user either submitted in the information portal request or obtained otherwise to identify keywords such as partial domain names or hostnames. Using the parsed keywords the content management system can then search a data store of known partner network names or identifiers to match the user with a partner network. In yet another embodiment the content management system utilizes the email address provided or otherwise associated with the user to verify the affiliation information. In such an embodiment upon associating the user with a partner network the content management system can forward a secure email to the user at the email address having the domain associated with the partner network component . The secure email can include a special resource identifier such as a hyperlink that accesses a domain provided by the content management system. The resource identifier can include embedded information such as confirmation codes expiration codes etc. to prevent fraud. Additionally the content management system can require additional confirmation information or other steps via the domain accessed by the resource identifier. Based on accessing the resource identifier in the manner specified the content management system verifies the association of the user to the partner network component . Such secure links can allow the content management system to associate a user to a partner network without require additional activity by the user. Further the content management system can leverage security procedures or protocols utilized by the partner network components in managing the use of authorized email accounts.

With continued reference to based on the client partner affiliations obtained from the user profile data store or otherwise obtained by the content management system at block the content management system then obtains the program information available to the user based on the partner affiliations. Illustratively the content management system may obtain all program information available to all users affiliated with the identified partner program component . Additionally the content management system can conduct an audit or otherwise obtain audit information regarding the software applications operating system or other configurations utilized by the requesting client computing device . Based on the audit the content management system can then determine which of the potentially applicable software applications made available to the partner network will be provided or made available to the specific affiliated user of the partner network.

At block the content management system processes the program information such that a user can only access content such as software applications via the information portal as allowed by any user of the particular partner network . Additionally the content management system can also filter the program information based on individual user criteria or based on the identity of the individual user. For example the content management system can further filter program information depending on a characterization of a user or a user s selection of a particular characterization. Still further the content management system can further apply financial criteria that may limit the software applications provided to a user based on financial terms incurred by the affiliated partner network or user of the partner network. For example the content management system may allow partner networks to specify a total financial obligation for particular users or types of users that may limit the number of software applications made available to the users. Additionally the content management system may allow partner networks to specify total financial obligations for the partner network that may limit software applications made available to individual users based on the cumulative financial obligation of the affiliated partner network.

At block the content management system can then transmit responsive information portal information via the communication network. In one example a user interface or other notification mechanism e.g. SMS MMS email may be generated that allows users to select one or more software applications for download. In another example the content management system can initiate the download of software applications removal of software applications or modification of software applications on the client computing device. In a further example the content management system may generate notifications to software delivery services to make software application available to users. At block the routine terminates.

With reference now to a program generation routine implemented by the content management system will be described. At block the content management system obtains software application program creation request from a user associated with a content provider via the communication network . Illustratively the request may be transmitted by accessing and an interface to be generated on the user client computer. As previously described the content provider can correspond to various groupings of computing devices including from partner networks that function as content providers . Additionally as previously described the content provided by the content provider can correspond to software applications executable code and the like.

At block based on the request the content management system determines or otherwise identifies the information associated with the software application that is to be included in the information portal. As previously described the program information can include information associated with the content. Examples of the type of information that will be included in a new application program can include but are not limited to contact information descriptive information security information pricing information licensing information identification of particular partner networks and the like. Additionally the content management system can obtain licensing information utilized in conjunction with the delivery of the software application to user devices such as encryption keys etc.

At block the content management system then determines program permissions for the particular program. In one embodiment the content management system may utilize preconfigured permission information defined according to the content provider e.g. default permissions attributed to content provider based on initial configuration information made by the content provider . The preconfigured permission information may be stored in the application program data store . Additionally the content management system may also obtain specific or additional program permissions from the content provider via a user interface. As previously described the permission information can define a limited set of information for specific partner network components such that users associated with that specific partner network component can only access a subset of the program information. Additionally as described above the user can specify filtering criteria based on individual users such as criteria based on the characterization of user.

In another aspect the content management system can also obtain information the users affiliated with specific partner networks may have and the terms of such access. In one example the information can establish which users or types of users affiliated with the partner network will be able to access software application program. In another example the information can also establish different subsets of software application program for subset of users affiliated with the partner network. As discussed above users associated with such partner networks will then be limited as to which software application or version of a software application will be provided via the information portal. In a further example the information can include software manifests or configurations that not identify which software applications are required to be loaded onto a device which software application are prohibited on a device and which software applications may be optional. The information may be keyed to specific software devices manufacturers users operating systems and the like. Still further the information can include a specification of pricing terms or software licenses that dictate the financial considerations to be incurred by the partner network or users of the partner network if the software download occurs. Thus the partner network system administrator may have ultimate approval or configuration authority for software applications on a user device.

At block the content management system stores the program information. Additionally at block the content management system can optionally transmit a confirmation to the requesting user or according to specified contact information e.g. a system administrator identified for the partner network component . The store program will then be made available for access by requesting users as described above with regard to . At block the routine terminates.

While illustrative embodiments have been disclosed and discussed one skilled in the relevant art will appreciate that additional or alternative embodiments may be implemented within the spirit and scope of the present disclosure. Additionally although many embodiments have been indicated as illustrative one skilled in the relevant art will appreciate that the illustrative embodiments do not need to be combined or implemented together. As such some illustrative embodiments do not need to be utilized or implemented in accordance with the scope of variations to the present disclosure.

Conditional language such as among others can could might or may unless specifically stated otherwise or otherwise understood within the context as used is generally intended to convey that certain embodiments include while other embodiments do not include certain features elements and or steps. Thus such conditional language is not generally intended to imply that features elements and or steps are in any way required for one or more embodiments or that one or more embodiments necessarily include logic for deciding with or without user input or prompting whether these features elements and or steps are included or are to be performed in any particular embodiment.

Any process descriptions elements or blocks in the flow diagrams described herein and or depicted in the attached figures should be understood as potentially representing modules segments or portions of code which include one or more executable instructions for implementing specific logical functions or steps in the process. Alternate implementations are included within the scope of the embodiments described herein in which elements or functions may be deleted executed out of order from that shown or discussed including substantially concurrently or in reverse order depending on the functionality involved as would be understood by those skilled in the art. It will further be appreciated that the data and or components described above may be stored on a computer readable medium and loaded into memory of the computing device using a drive mechanism associated with a computer readable medium storing the computer executable components such as a CD ROM DVD ROM or network interface. Further the component and or data can be included in a single device or distributed in any manner. Accordingly general purpose computing devices may be configured to implement the processes algorithms and methodology of the present disclosure with the processing and or execution of the various data and or components described above. Alternatively some or all of the methods described herein may alternatively be embodied in specialized computer hardware. In addition the components referred to herein may be implemented in hardware software firmware or a combination thereof

It should be emphasized that many variations and modifications may be made to the above described embodiments the elements of which are to be understood as being among other acceptable examples. All such modifications and variations are intended to be included herein within the scope of this disclosure and protected by the following claims.

