---

title: Methods of responding to an orientation or motion of a portable electronic device, and related devices
abstract: A method of responding to an orientation or motion of a portable electronic device may include receiving a plurality of commands at the portable electronic device from a proximately-located short-range radio frequency (RF) device through a direct point-to-point short-range RF communication link. The method may also include identifying the orientation or motion of the portable electronic device while the portable electronic device is proximately located to the short-range RF device. The method may further include selecting one of the plurality of commands, at the portable electronic device, in response to identifying the orientation or motion of the portable electronic device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09531858&OS=09531858&RS=09531858
owner: Sony Corporation
number: 09531858
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20120227
---
This application is a 35 U.S.C. 371 national stage application of PCT International Application No. PCT IB2012 000357 filed on 27 Feb. 2012 the disclosure and content of which is incorporated by reference herein as if set forth in its entirety.

The present inventive concept generally relates to the field of communications and more particularly to methods of responding to an orientation or motion of a portable electronic device.

Short range Radio Frequency RF wireless communications may include Near Field Communications NFC . NFC is a wireless communication technology that enables short range communications between closely positioned e.g. less than twenty 20.0 centimeters cm wireless devices. NFC may operate at a frequency of 13.56 Megahertz MHz which in some countries falls in an unlicensed ISM industrial scientific medical frequency range. The 13.56 MHz operating frequency may also be used for Radio Frequency Identification RFID applications. Thus an NFC device can communicate with other NFC devices in a peer to peer communication mode as well as with RFID devices in a read write mode. Like RFID NFC uses magnetic field induction for communication. In magnetic field induction two communicating devices each include loop antennas. When placed in close proximity e.g. less than twenty 20.0 cm an electrical signal on one of the loop antennas can induce an electrical signal in the other of the loop antennas thus providing a communication path between the devices.

An NFC device e.g. an NFC tag may be used to provide information e.g. retail payment information to a mobile phone. For example a user of the mobile phone may initiate or finalize a communication session with the NFC tag by bringing the mobile phone into close proximity with the NFC tag. One example of such a communication may be communicating with an NFC tag near a painting to receive more information at the mobile phone about the artist of the painting.

Various embodiments of the present inventive concept include a method of responding to an orientation or motion of a portable electronic device. The method may include receiving a plurality of commands at the portable electronic device from a proximately located short range radio frequency RF device through a direct point to point short range RF communication link. The method may also include identifying the orientation or motion of the portable electronic device while the portable electronic device is proximately located to the short range RF device. The method may further include selecting one of the plurality of commands at the portable electronic device in response to identifying the orientation or motion of the portable electronic device.

In various further embodiments the short range RF communication link may include a magnetically coupled near field communication NFC link. In other words the plurality of commands may be received at the portable electronic device through the NFC link.

Various further embodiments provide that the short range RF device may include an NFC tag. Additionally the method may further include powering the NFC tag through magnetic coupling to a power source of the portable electronic device to initiate transfer of the plurality of commands to the portable electronic device through the NFC link.

In various further embodiments selecting one of the plurality of commands may include the following actions by the portable electronic device interpreting the plurality of commands and performing the one of the plurality of commands that is selected by the portable electronic device without further input from a user. In other words identifying the orientation or motion and selecting the one of the plurality of commands may not require user input beyond simply orienting and or moving the portable electronic device.

Various further embodiments provide that performing the one of the plurality of commands that is selected may include transmitting a request from the portable electronic device to a network to request information from a network node.

In various further embodiments transmitting the request from the portable electronic device to a network may include requesting a uniform resource locator URL that is included in the one of the plurality of commands that is selected by the portable electronic device.

Various further embodiments provide that each of the plurality of commands may be associated with a different URL.

In various further embodiments interpreting the plurality of commands may include comparing the plurality of commands with the orientation or motion that is identified by the portable electronic device.

Various further embodiments provide that the method may further include receiving from the short range RF device at the portable electronic device an indication of a corresponding orientation or motion that will trigger performing a respective one of the plurality of commands and displaying information communicating the indication on a display device of the portable electronic device.

In various further embodiments comparing the plurality of commands with the orientation or motion that is identified by the portable electronic device may include using an application that associates each of the plurality of commands with a corresponding orientation or motion that will trigger performing a respective one of the plurality of commands.

Various further embodiments provide that identifying the orientation or motion of the portable electronic device may include processing information received from a motion sensor a rotation sensor a tap sensor a proximity sensor and or camera of the portable electronic device while the portable electronic device is proximately located to the short range RF device to match the orientation or motion of the portable electronic device to one of a plurality of known orientations or motions.

In various further embodiments the method may further include before identifying the orientation or motion of the portable electronic device displaying on a display device of the portable electronic device a list that identifies each of the plurality of commands along with a respective orientation or motion that corresponds to each of the plurality of commands.

Various further embodiments provide that identifying the orientation or motion of the portable electronic device may be triggered in response to receiving the plurality of commands at the portable electronic device.

In various further embodiments the short range RF device may transmit each of the plurality of commands to the portable electronic device grouped in a serial data stream. Additionally selecting one of the plurality of commands may include selecting only one of the plurality of commands.

According to various embodiments a portable electronic device may include a short range radio frequency RF communication module configured to receive a plurality of commands from a proximately located short range RF device through a direct point to point short range RF communication link. The portable electronic device may also include a sensor configured to identify occurrence of one of a plurality of orientations and or motions of the portable electronic device while proximately located to the short range RF device. The portable electronic device may be further configured to select one of the plurality of commands in response to identifying the occurrence of the one of a plurality of orientations and or motions of the portable electronic device.

In various further embodiments the short range RF communication module may include a near field communication NFC module. Additionally the short range RF communication link may include a magnetically coupled NFC link. Moreover the short range RF device includes an NFC tag that is powered through magnetic coupling to a power source of the portable electronic device. Furthermore the sensor may include at least one of a motion sensor a rotation sensor a tap sensor a proximity sensor and a camera.

Various further embodiments provide that selecting one of the plurality of commands may include comparing the plurality of commands with the one of a plurality of orientations and or motions of the portable electronic device that is identified by the sensor and performing the one of the plurality of commands that is selected.

In various further embodiments the portable electronic device may further include a transceiver. Additionally performing the one of the plurality of commands that is selected may include transmitting a request via the transceiver to a network.

Various further embodiments provide that transmitting the request via the transceiver to a network may include requesting a uniform resource locator URL . Additionally the URL may be associated with the one of the plurality of commands that is selected by the portable electronic device. Furthermore each of the plurality of commands may be associated with a different URL.

According to various embodiments a method of responding to an orientation or motion of a portable electronic device may include receiving a plurality of commands grouped in a serial data stream at the portable electronic device from a proximately located short range radio frequency RF device through a direct point to point short range RF communication link. The method may also include identifying the orientation or motion of the portable electronic device while the portable electronic device is proximately located to the short range RF device. The method may further include comparing the plurality of commands with the orientation or motion that is identified by the portable electronic device. The method may additionally include performing only one of the plurality of commands by transmitting a request from the portable electronic device to a network to initiate a download and or access a website in response to comparing the plurality of commands with the orientation or motion that is identified by the portable electronic device.

Other methods and or devices according to embodiments of the inventive concept will be or become apparent to one with skill in the art upon review of the following drawings and detailed description. It is intended that all such additional devices and or systems be included within this description be within the scope of the present inventive concept and be protected by the accompanying claims. Moreover it is intended that all embodiments disclosed herein can be implemented separately or combined in any way and or combination.

The present inventive concept now will be described more fully with reference to the accompanying drawings in which embodiments of the inventive concept are shown. However the present application should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein. Rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete and to fully convey the scope of the embodiments to those skilled in the art. Like reference numbers refer to like elements throughout.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the embodiments. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises comprising includes and or including when used herein specify the presence of stated features steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

It will be understood that when an element is referred to as being coupled connected or responsive to another element it can be directly coupled connected or responsive to the other element or intervening elements may also be present. In contrast when an element is referred to as being directly coupled directly connected or directly responsive to another element there are no intervening elements present. As used herein the term and or includes any and all combinations of one or more of the associated listed items.

Spatially relative terms such as above below upper lower and the like may be used herein for ease of description to describe one element or feature s relationship to another element s or feature s as illustrated in the figures. It will be understood that the spatially relative terms are intended to encompass different orientations of the device in use or operation in addition to the orientation depicted in the figures. For example if the device in the figures is turned over elements described as below other elements or features would then be oriented above the other elements or features. Thus the exemplary term below can encompass both an orientation of above and below. The device may be otherwise oriented rotated 90 degrees or at other orientations and the spatially relative descriptors used herein interpreted accordingly. Well known functions or constructions may not be described in detail for brevity and or clarity.

It will be understood that although the terms first second etc. may be used herein to describe various elements these elements should not be limited by these terms. These terms are only used to distinguish one element from another. Thus a first element could be termed a second element without departing from the teachings of the present embodiments.

Unless otherwise defined all terms including technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which these embodiments belong. It will be further understood that terms such as those defined in commonly used dictionaries should be interpreted as having a meaning that is consistent with their meaning in the context of the relevant art and will not be interpreted in an idealized or overly formal sense unless expressly so defined herein.

It is to be understood that the functions acts indicated in the illustrated blocks may occur out of the order noted in the operational illustrations. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality acts involved.

Although Near Field Communication NFC links have been used to provide a given function e.g. to facilitate payments for merchandise or to provide other information for users of devices communicating through the NFC links communication sessions using the NFC links have been somewhat basic e.g. limited to the particular function . However various embodiments of the methods and related devices described herein may provide options to a user of a portable electronic device in a relatively easily accessible manner. For example various embodiments described herein may use short range Radio Frequency RF wireless communications e.g. NFC communications to provide multiple options to the user of the portable electronic device. In particular in one example an NFC tag may transfer a plurality of commands e.g. different options instructions actions that can be performed by the portable electronic device together e.g. grouped in a serial data stream to the portable electronic device through an NFC communication link.

Moreover various embodiments described herein may provide receipt of all of the commands and execution of a particular one of the commands at the portable electronic device without requiring additional user inputs through manipulation of a user interface e.g. keypad keyboard touch interface beyond the particular orientation or motion e.g. gesture of the portable electronic device. For example the plurality of commands may be transferred from the NFC tag to the portable electronic device in response to establishing an NFC communication link without requiring the user to look at a display of the portable electronic device and provide further input to the portable electronic device through a user interface. Additionally the portable electronic device may select a particular one of the plurality of commands in response to identifying the particular orientation or motion of the portable electronic device without requiring the user to look at a display of the portable electronic device and provide further input to the portable electronic device through a user interface.

Referring to an illustration is provided of a portable electronic device and a short range RF device that may communicate with each other through a short range RF wireless communication link according to various embodiments of the present inventive concept. The short range RF wireless communication link may be a direct point to point link e.g. in contrast with a cellular or Wireless Local Area Network WLAN link between the portable electronic device and the short range RF device . The short range RF device may transfer a plurality of commands to the portable electronic device through the short range RF wireless communication link . For example the short range RF device may be configured to transmit a plurality of different commands e.g. commands to access download audio video websites and or information content files to the portable electronic device . As an example the short range RF device may be configured to transfer a first command and a second command to the portable electronic device . Although the first and second commands and are illustrated in as an example it will be understood that more than two commands e.g. three four or more commands may be transmitted together from the short range RF device to the portable electronic device .

Referring now to a schematic illustration is provided of a wireless communications network that provides service to the portable electronic device according to various embodiments of the present inventive concept. The wireless communications network may include a base station transceiver e.g. a cellular base station a local wireless network transceiver e.g. WLAN or Bluetooth a Mobile Telephone Switching Center MTSC and or a Public Service Telephone Network PSTN i.e. a landline network . As also shown in the MTSC is coupled to a computer server via a network such as the Internet. The local wireless network transceiver may also be connected to the network . Accordingly the portable electronic device may receive a plurality of commands from the short range RF device and may then access the computer server e.g. to access a website and or to upload download information audio video via the local wireless network transceiver or the base station transceiver in response to a selected one of the plurality of commands.

Referring now to a flowchart is provided illustrating operations of responding to an orientation or motion of the portable electronic device according to various embodiments of the present inventive concept. The motion or orientation of the portable electronic device occurs while the portable electronic device is proximately located to short range RF device . For example the motion or orientation may be a shake or a rotation e.g. a spin or a flip of the portable electronic device . In another example the motion or orientation may be a tap or multiple taps on the portable electronic device e.g. taps with a stylus or a user s finger or a tap or multiple taps by the portable electronic device on the short range RF device . In a further example the motion or orientation may be an orientation of the portable electronic device with respect to the ground or with respect to the short range RF device . For example the orientation may be that a portion e.g. a display of the portable electronic device faces or doesn t face or is oriented at a given angle with respect to the short range RF device . In an additional example the motion or orientation may be that the portable electronic device is held e.g. held substantially motionless near or on the short range RF device for a given amount of time. Moreover the motion or orientation of the portable electronic device may be a combination of motion and orientation e.g. rotation combined with a rightward orientation before after during the rotation or may only be one of a motion or an orientation.

Referring still to the operations of responding to an orientation or motion of the portable electronic device may include receiving a plurality of commands e.g. the first command and the second command at the portable electronic device from the short range RF device Block . The portable electronic device and the short range RF device may be proximately located to each other. For example the short range RF device and the portable electronic device may be within about four 4.0 centimeters cm of each other. In another example the short range RF device and the portable electronic device may be within about twenty 20.0 cm of each other.

As illustrated in Block of according to various embodiments the operations of responding to an orientation or motion of the portable electronic device may further include selecting one of the plurality of commands at the portable electronic device in response to identifying the orientation or motion of the portable electronic device . For example the portable electronic device may identify the orientation or motion as being a shake spin flip tilt tap hold lack of motion given angle of facing given direction of facing etc.

Referring now to flowcharts are provided illustrating operations that include identifying an orientation or motion of the portable electronic device according to various embodiments of the present inventive concept. Referring to the operations include establishing a direct point to point link between the portable electronic device and the short range RF device Block . In response a plurality of commands are received at the portable electronic device through the direct point to point link Block . Additionally the portable electronic device identifies an orientation or motion of the portable electronic device while the portable electronic device is proximately located to the short range RF device Block . In various embodiments the portable electronic device may make this identification in response to receiving the plurality of commands. Alternatively the portable electronic device may make this identification in response to establishing the direct point to point link e.g. independently of receiving the plurality of commands . After receiving the plurality of commands and identifying the orientation or motion of the portable electronic device the portable electronic device selects one of the plurality of commands in response to identifying the orientation or motion of the portable electronic device Block .

Referring to the operations include Blocks of and further include Block . In particular after receiving the plurality of commands Block the portable electronic device displays a list that identifies orientations motions of the portable electronic device and corresponding ones of the plurality of commands Block . For example the portable electronic device may display a list that identifies first second and third commands and corresponding first second and third orientations motions of the portable electronic device that trigger execution of the respective commands. In various embodiments the portable electronic device may display the list before identifying the orientation or motion of the portable electronic device Block . Alternatively the portable electronic device may display the list after identifying the orientation or motion of the portable electronic device Block .

Referring to the operations include Blocks and of and include Block instead of Block . In particular after receiving the plurality of commands Block the portable electronic device identifies an orientation or motion of the portable electronic device while the portable electronic device is proximately located to the short range RF device in response to receiving the plurality of commands Block . In other words the identification of the orientation or motion of the portable electronic device is triggered by receiving the plurality of commands. In various alternative embodiments however the portable electronic device may make this identification independently of receiving the plurality of commands.

Referring now to a flowchart is provided illustrating operations of transferring a plurality of commands from a Near Field Communication NFC tag to the portable electronic device according to various embodiments of the present inventive concept. For example referring again to the short range RF device may be an NFC tag. Also the short range RF communication link may be an NFC link. As such according to various embodiments the operations of responding to an orientation or motion of the portable electronic device include establishing a magnetically coupled NFC link between the portable electronic device and the NFC tag Block . The operations may also include powering the NFC tag through magnetic coupling to a power source of the portable electronic device to initiate transfer of a plurality of commands from the NFC tag to the portable electronic device through the NFC link Block . The operations may further include identifying an orientation or motion of the portable electronic device while the portable electronic device is proximately located to the NFC tag Block . This identification of the orientation or motion may be triggered by receipt of the plurality of commands at the portable electronic device or may be independent of such receipt. Moreover the operations may further include selecting one of the plurality of commands at the portable electronic device in response to identifying the orientation or motion of the portable electronic device Block .

Referring now to a flowchart is provided illustrating operations that include comparing a plurality of commands with an orientation or motion that is identified by the portable electronic device according to various embodiments of the present inventive concept. The operations include establishing a direct point to point link between the portable electronic device and the short range RF device Block . In response a plurality of commands which are grouped together in a serial data stream are received at the portable electronic device through the direct point to point link Block . Additionally the portable electronic device identifies an orientation or motion of the portable electronic device while the portable electronic device is proximately located to the short range RF device Block .

After receiving the plurality of commands and identifying the orientation or motion of the portable electronic device the portable electronic device compares the plurality of commands with the orientation or motion that is identified by the portable electronic device Block . For example in performing this comparison the portable electronic device may use additional information e.g. information in an application used by the portable electronic device and or information from the short range RF device that associates the plurality of commands with different corresponding motions or orientations.

In response to comparing the plurality of commands with the identified orientation or motion of the portable electronic device Block the portable electronic device selects and executes i.e. performs only one of the plurality of commands by transmitting a request to a network e.g. to request information from a network node such as via a request through the Internet and or a WLAN to initiate set up an upload download and or to access a website Block . As an example each of the plurality of commands may be associated with a different Uniform Resource Locator URL and performing the selected one of the plurality of commands includes requesting only the URL associated with that particular command. In various embodiments each of the URLs may be transmitted by the short range RF device along e.g. grouped in a serial data stream with the associated commands. Alternatively the URLs may be transmitted separately by the short range RF device or the URLs may be stored searched for linked to by an application that is used by the portable electronic device .

Referring now to a block diagram is provided illustrating the portable electronic device according to various embodiments of the present inventive concept. The portable electronic device may be any of a variety of portable electronic devices. For example the portable electronic device may be a mobile terminal e.g. a mobile telephone a portable audio player a portable video player a camera an electronic reading device or a portable computer e.g. a tablet computer a netbook computer or a laptop computer .

As illustrated in the portable electronic device may include a keypad a display a transceiver a memory a sensor a power source a speaker and a camera that communicate with a controller . According to various embodiments the camera may be configured as a sensor for detecting an orientation or motion of the portable electronic device . For example the camera may determine a direction or an angle that the portable electronic device is facing oriented e.g. with respect to the short range RF device or another reference point . According to various embodiments identifying the orientation or motion of the portable electronic device includes processing information received from the sensor and or the camera to match the orientation or motion of the portable electronic device to one of a plurality of known e.g. stored in the memory and or an application used by the portable electronic device orientations or motions e.g. rotation spinning rightward orientation etc. .

The controller may include any low power microprocessor and or microcontroller used for portable electronic device applications. The controller can include a signal processor. Additionally or alternatively a signal processor can be provided as a separate component of the portable electronic device .

The transceiver may include a transmitter circuit and a receiver circuit which may cooperate to transmit and receive RF signals via an antenna . Although illustrates that a portion of the antenna extends beyond the housing of the portable electronic device in various embodiments the antenna may not be visible to a user of the portable electronic device and or may not protrude from the housing of the portable electronic device . According to various embodiments the transceiver of the portable electronic device may be configured to operate in any of the following bands Advanced Mobile Phone Service AMPS ANSI 136 Global System for Mobile Communications GSM Third Generation Partnership Project 3GPP Long Term Evolution LTE General Packet Radio Service GPRS enhanced data rates for GSM evolution EDGE Digital Communications Services DCS Personal Digital Cellular PDC Personal Communications Services PCS Code Division Multiple Access CDMA wideband CDMA CDMA2000 and or Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS frequency bands. Other bands can also be used in embodiments according to the inventive concept. Also various embodiments may be compatible with Long Term Evolution LTE and or High Speed Packet Access HSPA standards. Additionally or alternatively in embodiments the portable electronic device may be configured to communicate using Global Positioning System GPS and or Wireless Local Area Network WLAN frequency bands.

The memory may be a general purpose memory that is used to store both program instructions for the controller as well as data such as audio data video data configuration data and or other data that may be accessed and or used by the controller . The memory may include a nonvolatile read write memory a read only memory and or a volatile read write memory. In particular the memory may include a read only memory in which basic operating system instructions are stored a non volatile read write memory in which re usable data such as configuration information directory information and other information may be stored as well as a volatile read write memory in which short term instructions and or temporary data may be stored. In various embodiments the memory may include a removable nonvolatile memory card.

The portable electronic device further includes a short range RF communication module that may be configured to operate in a peer to peer mode and or in a read write mode. Other modes of operation such as card emulation mode may be possible. The short range RF communication module is operatively coupled to the controller and can operate under the control of the controller .

Still referring to the sensor may include one or more sensors that are configured to identify a motion or orientation of the portable electronic device . For example the sensor may include at least one of a motion sensor a rotation sensor a tap sensor and a proximity sensor. In various embodiments the motion sensor may be configured to identify shaking of the portable electronic device . The motion sensor may additionally or alternatively be configured to identify when the portable electronic device is held substantially still. In various embodiments the rotation sensor may be configured to detect rotation e.g. spinning or tilting in one or more directions.

In various embodiments the tap sensor and or the proximity sensor may be configured to identify contact between the portable electronic device and the short range RF device . According to various embodiments the tap sensor may include a microphone that is configured to detect tapping knocking on the portable electronic device e.g. to detect the sound of tapping knocking on the portable electronic device with a user s finger or with the short range RF device . Moreover in various embodiments the tap sensor may include a touch sensor that detects a touch e.g. by a user s finger on a portion e.g. a touch screen of the display of the portable electronic device . Furthermore in various embodiments the tap sensor may include an accelerometer that is configured to detect tapping knocking on the portable electronic device .

Accordingly referring still to the portable electronic device may include a short range RF communication module that is configured to receive at least one of the first command and the second command illustrated in from the proximately located short range RF device e.g. through the short range RF communication link . The portable electronic device may further include a sensor e.g. the sensor and or the camera that is configured to identify occurrence of one of a plurality of device gestures that are made by motion or orientation of the portable electronic device while proximately located to the short range RF device .

According to various embodiments the portable electronic device and the short range RF device may be different types of devices. For example the portable electronic device may be a battery powered device e.g. the power source may include a battery and the short range RF device may not be battery powered but rather may receive power from an external source e.g. from signals transmitted by the portable electronic device . Accordingly the power source of the portable electronic device may power the short range RF device through magnetic coupling. Additionally or alternatively the portable electronic device may include a display device e.g. the display and or a keypad e.g. the keypad whereas the short range RF device may not have a display and or a keypad. Moreover in various embodiments the short range RF device may be an NFC tag that is configured to provide the plurality of commands e.g. the first command and the second command illustrated in to the portable electronic device but that may not be configured to execute the plurality of commands. For example the short range RF device may not be configured to download play music or videos or to open a hyperlink even though the short range RF device may command such actions by the plurality of commands that it transfers to the portable electronic device which is configured to execute the plurality of commands .

In various embodiments the portable electronic device may be commanded by the selected one of the plurality of commands to selectively activate a portion of the portable electronic device in response to detecting e.g. via the sensor and or the camera a particular orientation or motion of the portable electronic device . For example the portable electronic device may be commanded to open a web browser or a multimedia application e.g. music player or video player in response to detecting a particular orientation or motion. In other words although the plurality of commands may operate in various embodiments by transmitting requests to a network the plurality of commands may additionally or alternatively command actions that are specific to and or confined within the portable electronic device itself. Thus according to various embodiments the plurality of commands may command specific actions e.g. starting a function or application on the portable electronic device or choosing a setting of the portable electronic device that are specific to and or confined within the portable electronic device .

Referring now to a block diagram is provided illustrating an NFC module according to various embodiments of the present inventive concept. For example the short range RF communication module of the portable electronic device illustrated in may include the NFC module . Also the short range RF communication link illustrated in may be an NFC link. As illustrated in the NFC module may include an antenna a control circuit and a memory . The antenna may include a loop antenna that is tuned to transmit receive electromagnetic signals at a frequency of about 13.56 MHz. The control circuit controls operation of the NFC module and can include a microprocessor or other control circuitry. The memory can store data and or settings used by the control circuit in performing NFC communications. The control circuit can operate in response to instructions from the controller of the portable electronic device illustrated in . In particular the controller of the portable electronic device can execute a communication Application Programming Interface API that controls operation of the NFC module illustrated in . The communication API permits application programs executing on the portable electronic device to query and exchange data with other NFC enabled devices according to one or more of the NFC operational modes such as read write mode and peer to peer mode.

Referring now to block diagrams are provided illustrating the short range RF device according to various embodiments of the present inventive concept. As illustrated in the short range RF device may include a short range RF communication module . The short range RF communication module may be configured to communicate with the portable electronic device through the short range RF communication link as described with respect to the operations illustrated in . Additionally the short range RF device may include a memory module which may store a plurality of commands e.g. the first and second commands and .

As illustrated in the short range RF communication module may include an NFC module in various embodiments. Accordingly the short range RF device may be an NFC tag and the short range RF communication link may be an NFC link. According to various embodiments the NFC module may be configured to operate in a passive mode. In other words the NFC module may not have a separate power source and may therefore operate using power derived from signals transmitted by the portable electronic device .

Referring now to orientations and motions of the portable electronic device are illustrated according to various embodiments of the present inventive concept. As illustrated in the portable electronic device may perform a motion in the form of a rotation . The rotation may be clockwise or counterclockwise. In one example the rotation may be a spin around the y axis that is illustrated in . In particular the rotation may include circling e.g. spinning 360 degrees or more around the y axis one or more times or partially circling e.g. spinning fewer than 360 degrees around the y axis.

As illustrated in the portable electronic device may perform a motion in the form of a tilt . The tilt may including rotating around the x axis. For example the tilt may include rotating 45 degrees around the x axis. Also the tilt may be a flip of the portable electronic device . For example the portable electronic device may be flipped from right side up to up side down e.g. the tilt may include about 180 degrees of rotation or vice versa.

In various embodiments the rotation and or the tilt of the portable electronic device may be determined while proximately located to the short range RF device . For example the rotation and or the tilt may be identified with respect to a portion e.g. the display of the portable electronic device that rotates and or tilts e.g. toward or away from the short range RF device . In one example the portable electronic device may perform a motion in the form of the tilt such that the tilt orients the display of the portable electronic device in a direction facing the short range RF device .

Moreover the portable electronic device may perform a motion in the form of a shake e.g. a user may shake the portable electronic device . For example the sensor may include one or more gyroscopes and or accelerometers configured to detect a shake of the portable electronic device . In particular referring to the sensor may be configured to detect the shake by detecting motion of the portable electronic device e.g. by detecting motion along the x axis the y axis and or an axis substantially perpendicular to the x axis or the y axis . Although the example of a shake is provided herein it will be understood that gyroscopes and or accelerometers may also be used to detect various other motions orientations.

As illustrated in the portable electronic device may perform a device motion gesture in the form of contact with the portable electronic device . For example the contact may be performed if the portable electronic device taps one or more times against the short range RF device . In another example the contact may be performed if a user of the portable electronic device taps knocks a portion e.g. a housing or the display of the portable electronic device with a finger or a stylus.

The device motions gestures of rotation tilt and contact illustrated in may be detected by one or more sensors e.g. the sensor and or the camera of the portable electronic device . Additionally or alternatively in various embodiments these and or other device gestures may be detected by one or more external sensors e.g. cameras near the short range RF device .

As illustrated in the portable electronic device may have an orientation to the left along the x axis. For example the top of the portable electronic device may be pointing to the left along the x axis. In various embodiments this leftward orientation of the portable electronic device may be identified by the portable electronic device e.g. by the sensor and or the camera while proximately located to the short range RF device .

Also as illustrated in the portable electronic device may have an upward orientation. For example the top of the portable electronic device may be pointing up e.g. away from the ground along the y axis.

Additionally as illustrated in the portable electronic device may have an orientation to the right along the x axis. For example the top of the portable electronic device may be pointing to the right along the x axis.

In various embodiments the motions orientations illustrated in of the portable electronic device may be identified by the portable electronic device while proximately located to the short range RF device . In response to identifying a particular one of the motions orientations of the portable electronic device the portable electronic device may select and perform one of the plurality of commands. For example in response to identifying a rightward orientation of the portable electronic device as illustrated in the portable electronic device may select and perform the particular command that corresponds with the rightward orientation. Additionally although leftward upward and rightward orientations of the portable electronic device are described it will be understood that other orientations e.g. diagonal downward etc. of the portable electronic device may additionally or alternatively be used to trigger the selection and execution of particular ones of the plurality of commands transmitted by the short range RF device .

Referring now to a list of commands and corresponding orientations of the portable electronic device are illustrated on a display device of the portable electronic device according to various embodiments of the present inventive concept. For example a user of the portable electronic device may approach the short range RF device at a music concert and the displayed list may include commands pertinent to a fan at that concert. The list may include each of the plurality of commands that is transmitted from the short range RF device to the portable electronic device . As an example the list may include 1 a command to interact with a social media network e.g. to post a comment indication of approval and or audio video images to a social media website 2 a command to access download audio video images e.g. to download music or lyrics or a playlist and 3 a command to download a concert schedule. The list of commands may be presented on the display device when the portable electronic device is connected to the short range RF device via the direct point to point short range RF communication link . Additionally a corresponding motion or orientation may be displayed with each of the displayed commands. In other words the display device may indicate that a leftward orientation of the portable electronic device will trigger selection and performance of command 1 whereas an upward orientation will trigger selection and performance of command 2 and a rightward orientation will trigger selection and performance of command 3 .

As another example a user of the portable electronic device may approach the short range RF device in a store e.g. a retail store . A leftward orientation of the portable electronic device while proximately located to the short range RF device may trigger selection and performance of a command to update the user s location on a social media website i.e. to indicate via the social media website that the user is in the store . In contrast an upward i.e. vertical orientation of the portable electronic device may trigger selection and performance of a command to download and display on the display device current special offers or rebates. Alternatively a rightward orientation of the portable electronic device may trigger selection and performance of a command to download and display a current status of the user s account e.g. a credit account or a rewards loyalty account with the store. Furthermore a spinning motion of the portable electronic device may trigger selection and performance of a command to download and display technical specifications of a product in the store.

Additionally according to various embodiments an indication may be provided on the display device of the portable electronic device regarding when the portable electronic device will identify the motion or orientation thereof. For example along with displaying a list of commands and corresponding motions orientations an alert may be provided on the display device in the form of a countdown to tell a user to begin a motion orientation of the portable electronic device after a given amount of time e.g. after 5 . . . 4 . . . 3 . . . 2 . . . 1 seconds . Alternatively the alert may provide an indication that the user may BEGIN MOTION ORIENTATION NOW without going through a countdown.

According to various embodiments the portable electronic device may receive from the short range RF device indications of the corresponding motions orientations that will trigger selection and performance of each of the respective commands. The portable electronic device may then display information communicating the indications on the display device of the portable electronic device. For example the short range RF device may transmit either together with each command or as a separate transmission an indication of the corresponding motion or orientation that will trigger the associated command and the display device may display this information in the form of a list. This list may be displayed before and or after identifying the orientation or motion of the portable electronic device . In other words although various embodiments provide for displaying the list before identifying a motion orientation and selecting a command various other embodiments provide for completing the operations of identifying a motion orientation and selecting a command before or even without displaying the list. Accordingly a user of the portable electronic device may not need to look at the display device before completing the operations of identifying a motion orientation and selecting a command.

Additionally or alternatively the portable electronic device may use an application that associates each of the plurality of commands with a corresponding orientation or motion that will trigger selection and performance of a respective one of the plurality of commands. The application may be displayed on the display device of the portable electronic device . According to various embodiments the portable electronic device may compare the plurality of commands with an identified motion or orientation of the portable electronic device using the application . The application may thus be used to select one command from the plurality of commands. In various embodiments the application may store search for link to access URLs that correspond to the plurality of commands. For example the application may perform a particular command by requesting a URL e.g. to access a social media website or a music website corresponding to that command. The different URLs corresponding to the different ones of the plurality of commands may be for different merchants websites or for different pages functions of the same merchant s website e.g. different actions on the same social media network .

As described herein motions orientations of the portable electronic device may trigger selection and performance of various commands. Additionally in various embodiments the portable electronic device may use an application that is personalizable customizable. For example a user may have a short range RF device e.g. an NFC tag in the user s car. By using programming the settings of the application to personalize customize the application the user may determine that a particular motion or orientation executes a particular one of the plurality of commands that are transmitted as a group from the NFC tag to the portable electronic device . For example the NFC tag in the user s car may transmit commands to the portable electronic device for a navigational system and or may transmit commands for accessing music on with the portable electronic device . As an example a user may personalize customize the application to determine that a rightward orientation of the portable electronic device will trigger selection and performance of a command to access a website for a nearby merchant e.g. a restaurant retailer or hotel when using the navigational system whereas a spinning motion of the portable electronic device will trigger selection and performance of a command to download access music e.g. from a streaming music service or from a music store that sells downloads .

Many different embodiments have been disclosed herein in connection with the above description and the drawings. It will be understood that it would be unduly repetitious and obfuscating to literally describe and illustrate every combination and subcombination of these embodiments. Accordingly the present specification including the drawings shall be construed to constitute a complete written description of all combinations and subcombinations of the embodiments described herein and of the manner and process of making and using them and shall support claims to any such combination or subcombination.

In the drawings and specification there have been disclosed various embodiments and although specific terms are employed they are used in a generic and descriptive sense only and not for purposes of limitation.

