---

title: Image content and quality assurance system and method
abstract: Disclosed herein are computer-implement systems and methods for identifying and analyzing content (e.g., text, images, videos, etc.) published on digital content platforms (e.g., webpages, mobile applications, etc.). Such analysis is then used to determine whether the published content is appropriate for association with (or “hosting of”) a third-party's content. In one embodiment, for example, the systems and methods presented are particularly useful for determining the appropriateness of an image published on a digital content platform, prior to providing an advertisement proximate the image. As such, merchants can avoid associating their advertised products/services with vulgar, obscene, or otherwise inappropriate images that may have a negative impact on their brand or reputation.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08234168&OS=08234168&RS=08234168
owner: Luminate, Inc.
number: 08234168
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120419
---
Disclosed herein are computer implement systems and methods for identifying and analyzing content e.g. text images videos etc. published on digital content platforms e.g. webpages mobile applications etc. . Such analysis is then used to determine whether the published content is appropriate for association with or hosting of a third party s content. In one embodiment for example the systems and methods presented are particularly useful for determining the appropriateness of an image published on a digital content platform prior to providing an advertisement proximate the image. As such merchants can avoid associating their advertised products services with vulgar obscene or otherwise inappropriate images that may have a negative impact on their brand or reputation.

Prior to describing the present invention in detail it is useful to provide definitions for key terms and concepts used herein. Unless defined otherwise all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this invention belongs.

 Advertisement or ad One or more images with or without associated text to promote or display a product or service. Terms advertisement and ad in the singular or plural are used interchangeably.

 Ad Creative or Creative Computer file with advertisement image or any other content or material related to a product or service. As used herein the phrase providing an advertisement may include providing an ad creative where logically appropriate. Further as used herein the phrase providing a contextually relevant advertisement may include providing an ad creative where logically appropriate.

Ad server One or more computers or equivalent systems which maintains a catalog of creatives delivers creative s and or tracks advertisement s campaigns and or campaign metrics independent of the platform where the advertisement is being displayed.

 Contextual information or contextual tag Data related to the contents and or context of digital content e.g. an image or content within the image for example but not limited to a description identification index or name of an image or object or scene or person or abstraction within the digital content e.g. image .

Contextually relevant advertisement A targeted advertisement that is considered relevant to the contents and or context of digital content on a digital content platform.

Crowdsource network One or more individuals whether human or computer used for a crowdsourcing application.

Crowdsourcing The process of delegating a task to one or more individuals with or without compensation.

Digital content Broadly interpreted to include without exclusion any content available on a digital content platform such as images videos text audio and any combinations and equivalents thereof.

Digital content platform Broadly interpreted to include without exclusion any webpage website browser based web application software application mobile device application e.g. phone or tablet application TV widget and equivalents thereof.

Image A visual representation of an object or scene or person or abstraction in the form of a machine readable and or machine storable work product e.g. one or more computer files storing a digital image a browser readable or displayable image file etc. . As used herein the term image is merely one example of digital content. Further as used herein the term image may refer to the actual visual representation the machine readable and or machine storable work product location identifier s of the machine readable and or machine storable work product e.g. a uniform resource locator URL or any equivalent means to direct a computer implemented system and or user to the visual representation. As such process steps performed on an image may call for different interpretations where logically appropriate. For example the process step of analyzing the context of an image would logically include analyzing the context of a visual representation. However the process step of storing an image on a server would logically include storing a machine readable and or machine storable work product or location identifier s of the machine readable and or machine storable work product e.g. uniform resource locator URL on a server. Further process steps performed on an image may include process steps performed on a copy thumbnail or data file of the image.

Merchant Seller or provider of a product or service agent representing a seller or provider or any third party charged with preparing and or providing digital content associated with a product or service. For example the term merchant should be construed broadly enough to include advertisers an ad agency or other intermediaries charged with developing a digital content to advertise a product or service.

Proximate Is intended to broadly mean relatively adjacent close or near as would be understood by one of skill in the art. The term proximate should not be narrowly construed to require an absolute position or abutment. For example content displayed proximate to an image means content displayed relatively near an image but not necessarily abutting or within the image. To clarify content displayed proximate to an image also includes content displayed abutting or within the image. In another example content displayed proximate to an image means content displayed on the same screen page or webpage as the image. 

Publisher Party that owns provides and or controls digital content or a digital content platform or third party who provides maintains and or controlls digital content and or ad space on a digital content platform.

Except for any term definitions that conflict with the term definitions provided herein the following related co owned and co pending applications are incorporated by reference in their entirety U.S. patent application Ser. Nos. 12 902 066 13 005 217 13 005 226 13 045 426 13 151 110 13 219 460 13 252 053 13 299 280 13 308 401 13 299 280 and 13 427 341.

Disclosed herein are computer implement systems and methods for identifying and analyzing content e.g. text images videos etc. published on digital content platforms e.g. webpages mobile applications etc. . Such analysis is then used to determine whether the published content is appropriate for association with or hosting of a third party s content.

In one embodiment for example the computer implement systems and methods disclosed herein are used for identifying and analyzing the context content within images published on digital content platforms. The context content of an image is then used to determine whether the image is appropriate for association with or hosting of of a third party s content. The systems and methods presented are particularly useful for third parties e.g. merchants and or content developers to analyze the appropriateness of published images and thereby avoid associating their content e.g. products advertisements in image applications etc. on the digital content platform with vulgar obscene or otherwise inappropriate images. However if an image is deemed appropriate for association with the third party s content then a third party s content is matched linked to the image and provided to the digital content platform for publication proximate to the image. As such third parties can be assured that their content is being associated with or hosted by quality images that will not have a negative impact on their brand or reputation. The systems and methods disclosed herein can also be used to track and score publishers and thereby identify publishers best suited to host third party content.

For example in one embodiment there is provided a computer implemented system and method for a service provider to identify images eligible for hosting advertisements on a digital content platform. The embodiment includes using a computer implemented image collection system to 1 identify an image published on a digital content platform and 2 identify a publisher of the image. The embodiment further includes using a computer implemented image analysis system to assess the context content within the image. If the image analysis system determines that the image is eligible or otherwise appropriate for hosting advertisements then the image is automatically submitted to an image advertisement matching engine wherein the image is linked to an advertisement. The advertisement is then sent to the digital content platform for publication proximate to the image. However if the image analysis system determines that the image is ineligible or otherwise inappropriate for hosting advertisements then the image is flagged as ineligible and is automatically submitted for relationship test analysis. A relationship test analysis is then performed to assess whether the image and or publisher is in violation a pre defined service provider terms of service. A publisher trust score is maintained and updated based on the image analysis and or the relationship test analysis.

Additional embodiments and sub protocols are described in more detail below. However prior to describing such additional embodiments are presented to illustrate three example use cases for the systems and methods presented. As will be clear upon review of merchants and or content providers will benefit from a scalable and automated system to ensure the quality and or appropriateness of published images before they associate their content with the published image via implementation of the various use cases. and the additional embodiments presented outline examples of scalable and automated mechanisms for filtering out inappropriate images and or otherwise ensuring the quality and or appropriateness of published images prior to using the published images to host additional content.

For example is a high level diagram illustrating an example use case for an embodiment of the present invention. Similar systems and methods are discussed in greater detail in the above referenced related applications for example U.S. patent application Ser. Nos. 13 252 053 and 13 299 280. As shown in an image is originally published on a publisher s webpage . When an end user accesses the webpage and activates a hotspot a call is made upon a service provider to provide contextually relevant content e.g. one or more ad creatives and within an image frame provided proximate to the image . The end user can then use interfaces and to browse amongst ad creatives or any digital content otherwise provided and . In practice the service provider implements any of a variety of image content matching algorithms and systems to identify and provide contextually relevant ad creatives and or . Such image content matching algorithms and systems are described in more detail below as well as in the above referenced related applications.

In one embodiment the ad creatives and or are contextually related to each other to the image and or to the rest of the digital content on the webpage . The image frame may be used as a means for the end user to browse ad creatives on the webpage without having to leave the webpage . Further each ad creative within the image frame may provide a link to another webpage such as a merchant s webpage. As such the image frame may provide a means for a merchant to display advertisements that are contextually relevant to the image digital content on the webpage and or other images displayed within the image frame . However if the image or any of the other digital content on the webpage is vulgar obscene or otherwise inappropriate for association with the merchant s ads the systems and methods presented herein can be used to flag the image and or publisher and avoid association or publication of the merchant s ads with the image .

In operation a publisher prepares publishes and maintains an HTML webpage script on a server Arrow A . The publisher also inserts a reference script which serves as a redirect to a dedicated content server maintained by a service provider Arrow B . An end user employs an end user device e.g. computer mobile device tablet etc. and web browser or alternatively a mobile application i.e. app to access the HTML webpage script via the Internet Arrow C . The user s web browser loads the HTML webpage script as a viewable webpage within the web browser . The webpage may include content such as image s and text . The image may include one or more hotspots or other means of activating the image. In one embodiment the image is not originally published with a hotspot but instead has a hotspot activated after the service provider has identified and analyzed the image and or the end user mouses over the image.

Arrow E indicates the reference script calling to the service provider and more specifically to a content decision engine maintained by the service provider in order for the service provider to identify the image and identify content that is contextually relevant to the image. Such contextually relevant content e.g. contextually relevant advertisements is then returned to the end user device for display within the web browser as shown by Arrow F. In one embodiment the contextually relevant content is shown within the same pixel frame or pixel profile as the originally published image . However the contextually relevant content can be published anywhere proximate to image .

As with use case if the image or any of the other content on the webpage is vulgar obscene or otherwise inappropriate for association with the available contextually relevant content the systems and methods presented herein can be used to flag the image and or the publisher and avoid association or publication of contextually relevant content with the image webpage and or publisher .

As shown in one or more application developer s may provide one or more interactive applications for enablement activation and rendering on published digital content e.g. the image . In practice applications and or can be enabled by the application developer a service provider and or the publisher of the digital content. Enablement of the applications provides the end user with a palette of applications to choose from. In the example shown in the end user can then activate one or more of the enabled applications by selecting a respective icon or hotspot on the image . User activation of the selected application then pulls image data available for the image in order to render an in image interactive application proximate to the image. The use of the term in image should not be interpreted to require a fixed positional relationship between the image and the application. For example in one embodiment an in image application may be rendered proximate to the image i.e. inside or outside the image boundary frame near the image on the same screen as the image on the same webpage as the image or any other equivalent position relative to the image. 

In order for the enablement activation and or rendering of the in image application to be relevant to the image the application developer s may require detailed contextual information or data on the contents context of the image . In practice the contextual data is provided by the service provider . More specifically the service provider implements various interfaces and sub protocols to identify published content analyze the content index and maintain the data available on the content and provide contextual data to the enabled and activated applications and . For example the service provider can pull digital images published on webpages and process the images through an image tagging engine . Within the image tagging engine the service provider employs techniques such as algorithmic identification or analysis of the image image recognition protocols and analysis of the image proximate text recognition in search of contextual information of the image based on text published proximate to the image submission of the image to a crowdsource network to identify the context of the image and tag the image with relevant data a thematic tagging engine to identify and tag the image with relevant data based on a pre defined theme an application feedback engine to receive use feedback from an enabled activated and rendered application and or any combinations or equivalents thereof. Information data obtained or developed respective to the image is then stored in an image data repository . In one embodiment the image data is indexed within image data repository via a unique image key uniform resource locator URL or equivalents thereof. As such inquiries and or searches upon image data repository may quickly and effectively provide all relevant data available for use in an interactive in image application.

As with use cases and if the image is vulgar obscene or otherwise inappropriate for association with the applications or the systems and methods presented herein can be used to flag the image and or the publisher of the image and avoid association or enablement activation publication of the applications or with the image .

More specifically shows an embodiment wherein a service provider analyzes an image published on a digital content platform . In practice the image is received and stored within an image database . Of note an actual copy of the image need not be stored into the image database . For example the image database can be used to capture and store metadata around the image a URL link of the image post processing metadata associated with the image a thumbnail of the image an image hash of the image or any equivalent means for identifying viewing or processing of the image. Publisher data is also received from the digital content platform and stored in a publisher database .

Image collection or capture procedures include scraping images from the digital content platform a web crawling robot computer code for walking the DOM tree a computerized widget to automatically queue images when the webpages are first loaded an interface for a publisher to submit published images and or any combinations or equivalents thereof. The collecting or capturing of images broadly includes the identifying of making a copy of and or saving a copy of the image or associated data into image database . The collecting or capturing of images may also broadly include identifying image locations e.g. image URLs such that the images need not be stored temporarily or permanently in image database but may still be accessed when needed.

Within image database the images or image identifiers may be cataloged categorized sub categorized and or scored based on image metadata and or existing image tags. In one embodiment the scoring may be based on data obtained from the digital content platform that published the image . The data may be selected from the group consisting of image hash digital publisher identification publisher priority image category image metadata quality of digital image size of digital image date of publication of the digital image time of publication of digital image image traffic statistics and any combination or equivalents thereof. The images may also be tagged with the location of origin of the image. The image may also be thumb nailed resized or otherwise modified to optimize processing.

In one embodiment image database is maintained by the service provider . Alternatively the service provider need not maintain but only have access to the image database . The images within image database e.g. the image are then processed by the service provider through a quality assurance filter and an image content matching engine .

In the embodiment shown the quality assurance filter includes one or more sub protocols such as hash based filter content based filter and or relationship based filter . Within hash based filter an image hash analysis is performed to test whether the image hash matches any known or previously flagged inappropriate image hashes. For example an image hash analysis can be used to automatically and quickly identify image hashes for known pornography images. Such image hash identification provides an automated and scalable means for removing inappropriate images from further analysis and processing. Image hashing algorithms are described in greater detail in Venkatesan et al. Robust Image Hashing IEEE Intn l Conf. on Image Processing ICIP September 2000 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

A content based filter can then be applied to images that pass the hash based filter . Within the content based filter image recognition algorithms and or crowdsourcing protocols can be applied to review and analyze the context content of the processed images. The content based filter may further include image pattern matching algorithms to automatically scan and detect image content based on metrics such as patter. As such a pattern scan of the image can be performed to compare the pattern scan of the image against a database of known ineligible images. If the pattern scan of the image matches a pattern scan of a known ineligible image then the image can be flagged as ineligible for hosting content. If the pattern scan of the image does not match a pattern scan of a known ineligible image then the image can be submitted for further processing. The content based filter may further include text association analysis algorithms to detect metadata text and or scrape the published page for associated text clues or hints of the image. As such a comparison of the text association analysis of the image may be performed against a database of known ineligible images. If the text association analysis of the image matches a known ineligible image then the image can be flagged as ineligible for hosting content. If the text association analysis of the image does not match a known ineligible image then the image can be submitted for further processing. In other words a content based filter serves as a means for checking and or verifying the context content of the image.

A relationship based filter may then be applied to images that pass both the hash based filter and or the content based filter . Within the relationship based filter publisher information and or other external data can be used to determine whether the image is appropriate for hosting content. For example there may be instances wherein the image itself is appropriate for hosting contextually relevant advertisements but the publisher and or platform may be deemed inappropriate. Such instances may include pornography dedicated websites and or publishers with negative trust scores ratings or controversial reputations. Merchants for example may not wish to associate their advertisements with such publishers even if a particularly published image is otherwise appropriate.

Images that pass the quality assurance filter are then submitted to an image content matching engine wherein the images may be subjected to one or more sub protocols such as algorithmic content matching image recognition analysis of the image proximate text recognition in search of contextual information of the image based on text published proximate to the image submission of the image to a crowdsource network to identify the context content of the image and tag the image with relevant data tags a thematic tagging engine to identify and tag the image with relevant data tags based on a pre defined theme publisher provided data analysis and or any combinations or equivalents thereof. Content e.g. ads apps etc. stored in a content database can then be matched to appropriate images and sent to the digital content platform for publication proximate to the image . For example if quality assurance filter deems the image to be appropriate for hosting content then when an end user activates hotspot the service provider can provide contextually relevant content and in a scrollable image frame on the digital content platform .

However images that pass the image hash analysis of step are further subjected to an image content analysis in step . Image content analysis may include various sub protocols as presented herein including image recognition analysis and submission of the image to a crowdsource network for content analysis. If the image content analysis of step determines that the image is appropriate for hosting ads content the image is forwarded to an image content matching engine in step . Sources providing appropriate images for hosting ads content then have their trust score updated in step .

If the image content analysis of step determines that the image is inappropriate for hosting ads content the process continues with step as discussed above and or step . In step a relationship test analysis is performed to determine whether the image content and or the source violates pre defined terms of service. The terms of service may include pre defined agreements between the service provider and the various sources. If the terms of service have been violated the process continues with step . However if the terms of service have not been violated the process may have a secondary check performed at step . For example in step a determination is made as to whether to reverse the decision or flagging of step . If not the process may continue with step . However if the decision or flagging of step is reversed the image can be sent to the image content matching engine of step and the source s trust score can be updated in step .

In another embodiment there is provided computer implement systems and methods for selecting images eligible for hosting ads on a digital content platform filtering images for inappropriate content monitoring image content quality policing publishers of digital content platforms and or ensuring image quality in an image analysis system. The embodiment includes pulling receiving or inputting a plurality of images image identifiers image location identifiers and or image URLs from a plurality of digital content platforms e.g. webpages social networks mobile software applications etc. . The embodiment includes filtering or processing the plurality of images through a first algorithmic filter to identify any ineligible images. The first algorithmic filter may include machine learning of publisher tendencies a crawler function that adjusts depending on learning of publisher tendencies a crawler function that identifies the image as inappropriate by matching the image to a pre identified ineligible image and or an image hash function analysis. Ineligible images are the removed from further consideration. The publisher of the ineligible image may also be flagged for publisher review. The embodiment also includes storing the eligible images into a database and processing the images through a first content filter. The first content filter may be a certified crowdsource network member. Images deemed ineligible based on content are then flagged for processing through a second content filter. However images deemed eligible based on content are submitted to an image content or image ad matching engine. The image content or image ad matching engine may include a crowdsourcing network for matching content advertisements to images based on the context content of the image. The embodiment further includes processing the flagged images through a second content filter wherein images are analyzed to identify whether they violate pre defined publisher terms of service. The second content filter can also 1 analyze publisher metrics 2 update a publisher s score rating 3 update a publisher s trust ranking and or 4 flag the publisher for publisher review. If the second content filter identifies an image that violates pre defined publisher terms of service the publisher can be entirely removed from the system and their images may be removed from the image database. As such removed publishers images do not get processed by the system. The embodiment may further include performing a publisher review to identify publishers that should be re enabled after being disabled removed from the system.

In another embodiment there is provided a method for identifying a digital content publisher to exclude from a computer implemented image advertisement matching system wherein the image advertisement matching system includes 1 an image input cue for receiving a plurality of images from a plurality of digital content platforms 2 one or more content filters for identifying images that are ineligible for hosting advertisements and or 3 a crowdsource network for matching at least one digital advertisement to a respective image. In practice the digital advertisement is then provided proximate to the image on the digital content platform maintained by the digital content publisher. The method includes one or more of the steps of a storing the images received in the image input cue in an image database b processing images from the database through a first algorithmic filter to identify one or more ineligible images c identifying the publisher of an ineligible image based on an algorithmic filter and flagging the publisher for publisher review d processing the images from the database through a first content filter e identifying the publisher of an ineligible image based on content and flagging the publisher for publisher review f processing flagged images through a second content filter wherein images are analyzed to identify whether they violate pre defined publisher terms of service wherein if the second content filter identifies an image that violates pre defined publisher terms of service the publisher is excluded from the image advertisement matching system and their images are removed from the database and or g performing a publisher review to identify publishers that should be re enabled after being excluded in step f . The first algorithmic filter may include machine learning of publisher tendencies a crawler function that adjusts depending on learning of publisher tendencies a crawler function that identifies the image as inappropriate by matching the image to a pre identified ineligible image and or an image hash algorithmic analysis. The first content filter may include crowdsource network for flagging ineligible images for further review based on content. The second content filter may also 1 analyze publisher metrics 2 update a publisher s score rating 3 update a publisher s trust ranking and or 4 flag the publisher for publisher review.

In another embodiment there is provided a computer implemented method for selecting images eligible for hosting advertisements on a digital content platform. The method comprises a using a computer implemented image collection system to 1 identify an image published on a digital content platform and 2 identify a publisher of the image b using a computer implemented image analysis system to 1 perform an image hash analysis on the image and 2 assess the image against a database of known ineligible images based on the image hash analysis of step b 1 . If the image matches a known ineligible image based on image hash then the method includes flagging the image as ineligible for hosting advertisements on the digital content platform. If the image does not match a known ineligible image based on image hash then the method includes submitting the image to a computerized crowdsource interface for performing an image content analysis of the image. The method further includes assessing the image content with a crowdsource network using the computerized crowdsource interface wherein if the crowdsource network deems the image eligible for hosting advertisements on the digital content platform then the image is automatically submitted to an image advertisement matching engine wherein the image is linked to a corresponding advertisement and the corresponding advertisement is sent to the digital content platform for publication proximate to the image on the digital content platform. If the crowdsource network deems the image ineligible for hosting advertisements on the digital content platform then the image is flagged as ineligible for hosting advertisements and is automatically submitted to a relationship test analysis. The method further comprises c performing the relationship test analysis by assessing whether the image violates a pre defined publisher terms of service and d updating a publisher score for the publisher identified in step a 2 based on the analysis of steps b and c .

If the relationship test analysis of step c deems that the image does not violate the pre defined publisher terms of service step c further comprises 1 removing the image flag applied in step b and 2 submitting the image to an image advertisement matching engine wherein the image is linked to a corresponding advertisement and the corresponding advertisement is sent to the digital content platform for publication proximate to the image on the digital content platform.

If the relationship test analysis of step c deems that the image does violate the pre defined publisher terms of service step c further comprises 1 flagging the publisher identified in step a 2 as inappropriate for hosting advertisements.

In another embodiment there is provide a computer implemented system and method for a service provider to identify images eligible for hosting advertisements on a digital content platform. The system and method comprises a using a computer implemented image collection system to 1 identify an image published on a digital content platform and 2 identify a publisher of the image b using a computer implemented image analysis system to assess content within the image wherein if the image analysis system determines that the image is eligible for hosting advertisements then the image is automatically submitted to an image advertisement matching engine wherein the image is linked to an advertisement and wherein the advertisement is sent to the digital content platform for publication proximate to the image and if the image analysis system determines that the image is ineligible for hosting advertisements then the image is flagged as ineligible and is automatically submitted for relationship test analysis in step c and c performing a relationship test analysis by assessing whether the image violates a pre defined service provider terms of service. The system and method further comprising maintaining a publisher trust score and updating the publisher trust score for the publisher identified in step a 2 based on the image analysis of step b or the relationship test analysis of step c .

During or prior to step b the system and method may further comprise using a computer implemented processing device to 1 calculate an image hash of the image and 2 compare the image hash against a database of known ineligible images wherein if the image hash matches an image hash of a known ineligible image then flagging the image as ineligible for hosting advertisements and if the image hash does not match an image hash of a known ineligible image then submitting the image for image analysis in step b . The image analysis system may include a computerized crowdsource interface. Step b may be performed by displaying the image to a crowdsource network via the computerized crowdsource interface.

During or prior to step b the system and method may further comprise using a computer implemented processing device to 1 perform a pattern scan of the image and 2 compare the pattern scan of the image against a database of known ineligible images. If the pattern scan of the image matches a pattern scan of a known ineligible image then flagging the image as ineligible for hosting advertisements. If the pattern scan of the image does not match a pattern scan of a known ineligible image then submitting the image for image analysis in step b .

During or prior to step b the system and method may further comprise using a computer implemented processing device to 1 perform a text association analysis of the image and 2 compare the text association analysis of the image against a database of known ineligible images. If the text association analysis of the image matches a known ineligible image then flagging the image as ineligible for hosting advertisements. If the text association analysis of the image does not match a known ineligible image then submitting the image for image analysis in step b .

If the relationship test analysis of step c determines that the image does not violate the pre defined service provider terms of service the system and method may further comprise removing the image flag applied in step b and submitting the image to the image advertisement matching engine wherein the image is linked to an advertisement and wherein the advertisement is sent to the digital content platform for publication proximate to the image. If the relationship test analysis of step c determines that the image does violate the pre defined publisher terms of service the system and method may further comprise flagging the publisher identified in step a 2 as inappropriate for hosting advertisements.

In another embodiment there is provide a computer implemented system and method for a service provider to match images published on a digital content platform with contextually relevant advertisements. The system and method comprise a using a computer implemented image collection system to identify an image published on a digital content platform b using a computer implemented image analysis system to assess content within the image wherein the image analysis system determines whether the image is eligible for hosting advertisements based on the content within the image and if the image is eligible for hosting advertisements c using an image advertisement matching engine to link a contextually relevant advertisement to the image and d providing the contextually relevant advertisement to the digital content platform for publication proximate to the image. The digital content platform may be a website mobile application social network or any equivalents thereof.

If the image is not eligible for hosting advertisements the system and method my further comprise flagging the image as ineligible for hosting advertisements automatically submitting the image for relationship test analysis and performing a relationship test analysis by assessing whether the image violates pre defined terms. The system and method may further comprise using the computer implemented image collection system to identify a publisher of the image. The system and method may further comprise maintain a publisher trust score and updating the publisher trust score based on the image analysis of step b .

The system and method may further comprise using a computer implemented processing device to calculate an image hash of the image and using the computer implemented processing device to compare the image hash against a database of known ineligible images wherein if the image hash matches an image hash of a known ineligible image then flagging the image as ineligible for hosting advertisements.

The image analysis system may include a computerized crowdsource interface. Step b may be performed by displaying the image to a crowdsource network via the computerized crowdsource interface. Step c may be performed by displaying the image to a crowdsource network via the computerized crowdsource interface.

In one embodiment communication between the various parties and components of the present invention is accomplished over a network consisting of electronic devices connected either physically or wirelessly wherein digital information is transmitted from one device to another. Such devices e.g. end user devices and or servers may include but are not limited to a desktop computer a laptop computer a handheld device or PDA a cellular telephone a set top box an Internet appliance an Internet TV system a mobile device or tablet or systems equivalent thereto. Exemplary networks include a Local Area Network a Wide Area Network an organizational intranet the Internet or networks equivalent thereto. The functionality and system components of an exemplary computer and network are further explained in conjunction with below.

In one embodiment the invention is directed toward one or more computer systems capable of carrying out the functionality described herein. For example is a schematic drawing of a computer system used to implement the methods presented above. Computer system includes one or more processors such as processor . The processor is connected to a communication infrastructure e.g. a communications bus cross over bar or network . Computer system can include a display interface that forwards graphics text and other data from the communication infrastructure or from a frame buffer not shown for display on a local or remote display unit .

Computer system also includes a main memory such as random access memory RAM and may also include a secondary memory . The secondary memory may include for example a hard disk drive and or a removable storage drive representing a floppy disk drive a magnetic tape drive an optical disk drive flash memory device etc. The removable storage drive reads from and or writes to a removable storage unit . Removable storage unit represents a floppy disk magnetic tape optical disk flash memory device etc. which is read by and written to by removable storage drive . As will be appreciated the removable storage unit includes a computer usable storage medium having stored therein computer software instructions and or data.

In alternative embodiments secondary memory may include other similar devices for allowing computer programs or other instructions to be loaded into computer system . Such devices may include for example a removable storage unit and an interface . Examples of such may include a program cartridge and cartridge interface such as that found in video game devices a removable memory chip such as an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or programmable read only memory PROM and associated socket and other removable storage units and interfaces which allow computer software instructions and or data to be transferred from the removable storage unit to computer system .

Computer system may also include a communications interface . Communications interface allows computer software instructions and or data to be transferred between computer system and external devices. Examples of communications interface may include a modem a network interface such as an Ethernet card a communications port a Personal Computer Memory Card International Association PCMCIA slot and card etc. Software and data transferred via communications interface are in the form of signals which may be electronic electromagnetic optical or other signals capable of being received by communications interface . These signals are provided to communications interface via a communications path e.g. channel . This channel carries signals and may be implemented using wire or cable fiber optics a telephone line a cellular link a radio frequency RF link a wireless communication link and other communications channels.

In this document the terms computer readable storage medium computer program medium and computer usable medium are used to generally refer to media such as removable storage drive removable storage units data transmitted via communications interface and or a hard disk installed in hard disk drive . These computer program products provide computer software instructions and or data to computer system . These computer program products also serve to transform a general purpose computer into a special purpose computer programmed to perform particular functions pursuant to instructions from the computer program products software. Embodiments of the present invention are directed to such computer program products.

Computer programs also referred to as computer control logic are stored in main memory and or secondary memory . Computer programs may also be received via communications interface . Such computer programs when executed enable the computer system to perform the features of the present invention as discussed herein. In particular the computer programs when executed enable the processor to perform the features of the presented methods. Accordingly such computer programs represent controllers of the computer system . Where appropriate the processor associated components and equivalent systems and sub systems thus serve as means for performing selected operations and functions. Such means for performing selected operations and functions also serve to transform a general purpose computer into a special purpose computer programmed to perform said selected operations and functions.

In an embodiment where the invention is implemented using software the software may be stored in a computer program product and loaded into computer system using removable storage drive interface hard drive communications interface or equivalents thereof. The control logic software when executed by the processor causes the processor to perform the functions and methods described herein.

In another embodiment the methods are implemented primarily in hardware using for example hardware components such as application specific integrated circuits ASICs Implementation of the hardware state machine so as to perform the functions and methods described herein will be apparent to persons skilled in the relevant art s . In yet another embodiment the methods are implemented using a combination of both hardware and software.

Embodiments of the invention including any systems and methods described herein may also be implemented as instructions stored on a machine readable medium which may be read and executed by one or more processors. A machine readable medium may include any mechanism for storing or transmitting information in a form readable by a machine e.g. a computing device . For example a machine readable medium may include read only memory ROM random access memory RAM magnetic disk storage media optical storage media flash memory devices electrical optical acoustical or other forms of propagated signals e.g. carrier waves infrared signals digital signals etc. and others. Further firmware software routines instructions may be described herein as performing certain actions. However it should be appreciated that such descriptions are merely for convenience and that such actions in fact result from computing devices processors controllers or other devices executing firmware software routines instructions etc.

For example in one embodiment there is provided a computer readable storage medium having instructions executable by at least one processing device that when executed cause the processing device to a identify an image published on a digital content platform b identify a publisher of the image c assess content within the image to determine whether the image is eligible for hosting advertisements d link a contextually relevant advertisement to the image if the image is eligible for hosting advertisements and d provide the contextually relevant advertisement to the digital content platform for publication proximate to the image.

The foregoing description of the invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise form disclosed. Other modifications and variations may be possible in light of the above teachings. The embodiments were chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the invention and its practical application and to thereby enable others skilled in the art to best utilize the invention in various embodiments and various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated. It is intended that the appended claims be construed to include other alternative embodiments of the invention including equivalent structures components methods and means.

Accordingly it is to be understood that this invention is not limited to particular embodiments described and as such may vary. It is also to be understood that the terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting.

As will be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reading this disclosure each of the individual embodiments described and illustrated herein has discrete components and features which may be readily separated from or combined with the features of any of the other several embodiments without departing from the scope or spirit of the present invention. Any recited method can be carried out in the order of events recited or in any other order which is logically possible. Further each system component and or method step presented should be considered a means for or step for performing the function described for said system component and or method step. As such any claim language directed to a means for or step for performing a recited function refers to the system component and or method step in the specification that performs the recited function as well as equivalents thereof.

It is to be appreciated that the Detailed Description section and not the Summary and Abstract sections is intended to be used to interpret the claims. The Summary and Abstract sections may set forth one or more but not all exemplary embodiments of the present invention as contemplated by the inventor s and thus are not intended to limit the present invention and the appended claims in any way.

