---

title: Processor clocking policies for mobile computing devices
abstract: In one embodiment, a processor of a computing device executes a sequence of instructions that depends on one or more external operations. Software of the computing device determines a clocking policy for the processor during execution of the sequence of instructions. The clocking policy is based at least in part on a pattern of execution involving the sequence of instructions and the external operations, and the clocking policy modifies a clock speed of the processor. The software of the computing device applies the clocking policy to the processor during execution of at least a portion of the sequence of instructions.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09618994&OS=09618994&RS=09618994
owner: Facebook, Inc.
number: 09618994
owner_city: Menlo Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121010
---
A mobile computing device such as a smartphone tablet computer or laptop computer may include functionality for determining its location direction or orientation such as a GPS receiver compass or gyroscope. Such a device may also include functionality for wireless communication such as BLUETOOTH communication near field communication NFC or infrared IR communication or communication with a wireless local area networks WLANs or cellular telephone network. Such a device may also include one or more cameras scanners touch screens microphones or speakers. Mobile computing devices may also execute software applications such as games web browsers or social networking applications. With social networking applications users may connect communicate and share information with other users in their social networks.

In particular embodiments a processor of a computing device e.g. a mobile computing device may execute a sequence of instructions that depends on one or more external operations. The external operation may be for example a fetching of data for use by the sequence of instructions. In particular embodiments software of the computing device may determine a clocking policy for the processor during execution of the sequence of instructions. The software may for example be a kernel of an operating system running on the computing device. The clocking policy may be based on a pattern of execution involving the sequence of instructions and the external operations e.g. a pattern in which the sequence of instructions is active and then idle while waiting for the external operations to complete . The clocking policy may modify a clock speed of the processor e.g. overclocking or underclocking the processor . The software of the computing device may apply the clocking policy to the processor during execution of at least a portion of the sequence of instructions.

This disclosure contemplates any suitable network . As an example and not by way of limitation one or more portions of network may include an ad hoc network an intranet an extranet a virtual private network VPN a local area network LAN a wireless LAN WLAN a wide area network WAN a wireless WAN WWAN a metropolitan area network MAN a portion of the Internet a portion of the Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN a cellular telephone network or a combination of two or more of these. Network may include one or more networks .

Links may connect client system social networking system and third party system to communication network or to each other. This disclosure contemplates any suitable links . In particular embodiments one or more links include one or more wireline such as for example Digital Subscriber Line DSL or Data Over Cable Service Interface Specification DOCSIS wireless such as for example Wi Fi or Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX or optical such as for example Synchronous Optical Network SONET or Synchronous Digital Hierarchy SDH links. In particular embodiments one or more links each include an ad hoc network an intranet an extranet a VPN a LAN a WLAN a WAN a WWAN a MAN a portion of the Internet a portion of the PSTN a cellular technology based network a satellite communications technology based network another link or a combination of two or more such links . Links need not necessarily be the same throughout network environment . One or more first links may differ in one or more respects from one or more second links .

In particular embodiments client system may be an electronic device including hardware software or embedded logic components or a combination of two or more such components and capable of carrying out the appropriate functionalities implemented or supported by client system . As an example and not by way of limitation a client system may include a computer system such as a desktop computer notebook or laptop computer netbook a tablet computer e book reader GPS device camera personal digital assistant PDA handheld electronic device cellular telephone smartphone other suitable electronic device or any suitable combination thereof. This disclosure contemplates any suitable client systems . A client system may enable a network user at client system to access network . A client system may enable its user to communicate with other users at other client systems .

In particular embodiments client system may include a web browser such as MICROSOFT INTERNET EXPLORER GOOGLE CHROME or MOZILLA FIREFOX and may have one or more add ons plug ins or other extensions such as TOOLBAR or YAHOO TOOLBAR. A user at client system may enter a Uniform Resource Locator URL or other address directing the web browser to a particular server such as server or a server associated with a third party system and the web browser may generate a Hyper Text Transfer Protocol HTTP request and communicate the HTTP request to server. The server may accept the HTTP request and communicate to client system one or more Hyper Text Markup Language HTML files responsive to the HTTP request. Client system may render a webpage based on the HTML files from the server for presentation to the user. This disclosure contemplates any suitable webpage files. As an example and not by way of limitation webpages may render from HTML files Extensible Hyper Text Markup Language XHTML files or Extensible Markup Language XML files according to particular needs. Such pages may also execute scripts such as for example and without limitation those written in JAVASCRIPT JAVA MICROSOFT SILVERLIGHT combinations of markup language and scripts such as AJAX Asynchronous JAVASCRIPT and XML and the like. Herein reference to a webpage encompasses one or more corresponding webpage files which a browser may use to render the webpage and vice versa where appropriate.

In particular embodiments social networking system may be a network addressable computing system that can host an online social network. Social networking system may generate store receive and transmit social networking data such as for example user profile data concept profile data social graph information or other suitable data related to the online social network. Social networking system may be accessed by the other components of network environment either directly or via network . In particular embodiments social networking system may include one or more servers . Each server may be a unitary server or a distributed server spanning multiple computers or multiple datacenters. Servers may be of various types such as for example and without limitation web server news server mail server message server advertising server file server application server exchange server database server proxy server another server suitable for performing functions or processes described herein or any combination thereof. In particular embodiments each server may include hardware software or embedded logic components or a combination of two or more such components for carrying out the appropriate functionalities implemented or supported by server . In particular embodiments social networking system may include one or more data stores . Data stores may be used to store various types of information. In particular embodiments the information stored in data stores may be organized according to specific data structures. In particular embodiments each data store may be a relational database. Particular embodiments may provide interfaces that enable a client system a social networking system or a third party system to manage retrieve modify add or delete the information stored in data store .

In particular embodiments social networking system may store one or more social graphs in one or more data stores . In particular embodiments a social graph may include multiple nodes which may include multiple user nodes each corresponding to a particular user or multiple concept nodes each corresponding to a particular concept and multiple edges connecting the nodes. Social networking system may provide users of the online social network the ability to communicate and interact with other users. In particular embodiments users may join the online social network via social networking system and then add connections i.e. relationships to a number of other users of social networking system whom they want to be connected to. Herein the term friend may refer to any other user of social networking system with whom a user has formed a connection association or relationship via social networking system .

In particular embodiments social networking system may provide users with the ability to take actions on various types of items or objects supported by social networking system . As an example and not by way of limitation the items and objects may include groups or social networks to which users of social networking system may belong events or calendar entries in which a user might be interested computer based applications that a user may use transactions that allow users to buy or sell items via the service interactions with advertisements that a user may perform or other suitable items or objects. A user may interact with anything that is capable of being represented in social networking system or by an external system of third party system which is separate from social networking system and coupled to social networking system via a network .

In particular embodiments social networking system may be capable of linking a variety of entities. As an example and not by way of limitation social networking system may enable users to interact with each other as well as receive content from third party systems or other entities or to allow users to interact with these entities through an application programming interfaces API or other communication channels.

In particular embodiments a third party system may include one or more types of servers one or more data stores one or more interfaces including but not limited to APIs one or more web services one or more content sources one or more networks or any other suitable components e.g. that servers may communicate with. A third party system may be operated by a different entity from an entity operating social networking system . In particular embodiments however social networking system and third party systems may operate in conjunction with each other to provide social networking services to users of social networking system or third party systems . In this sense social networking system may provide a platform or backbone which other systems such as third party systems may use to provide social networking services and functionality to users across the Internet.

In particular embodiments a third party system may include a third party content object provider. A third party content object provider may include one or more sources of content objects which may be communicated to a client device . As an example and not by way of limitation content objects may include information regarding things or activities of interest to the user such as for example movie show times movie reviews restaurant reviews restaurant menus product information and reviews or other suitable information. As another example and not by way of limitation content objects may include incentive content objects such as coupons discount tickets gift certificates or other suitable incentive objects.

In particular embodiments social networking system also includes user generated content objects which may enhance a user s interactions with social networking system . User generated content may include anything a user can add upload send or post to social networking system . As an example and not by way of limitation a user communicates posts to social networking system from a client device . Posts may include data such as status updates or other textual data location information photos videos links music or other similar data or media. Content may also be added to social networking system by a third party through a communication channel such as a newsfeed or stream.

In particular embodiments social networking system may include a variety of servers sub systems programs modules logs and data stores. In particular embodiments social networking system may include one or more of the following a web server action logger API request server relevance and ranking engine content object classifier notification controller action log third party content object exposure log inference module authorization privacy server search module ad targeting module user interface module user profile store connection store third party content store or location store. Social networking system may also include suitable components such as network interfaces security mechanisms load balancers failover servers management and network operations consoles other suitable components or any suitable combination thereof. In particular embodiments social networking system may include one or more user profile stores for storing user profiles. A user profile may include for example biographic information demographic information behavioral information social information or other types of descriptive information such as work experience educational history hobbies or preferences interests affinities or location. Interest information may include interests related to one or more categories. Categories may be general or specific. As an example and not by way of limitation if a user likes an article about a brand of shoes the category may be the brand or the general category of shoes or clothing. A connection store may be used for storing connection information about users. The connection information may indicate users who have similar or common work experience group memberships hobbies educational history or are in any way related or share common attributes. The connection information may also include user defined connections between different users and content both internal and external . A web server may be used for linking social networking system to one or more client devices or one or more third party system via network . The web server may include a mail server or other messaging functionality for receiving and routing messages between social networking system and one or more client devices . An API request server may allow a third party system to access information from social networking system by calling one or more APIs. An action logger may be used to receive communications from a web server about a user s actions on or off social networking system . In conjunction with the action log a third party content object log may be maintained of user exposures to third party content objects. A notification controller may provide information regarding content objects to a client device . Information may be pushed to a client device as notifications or information may be pulled from client device responsive to a request received from client device . Authorization servers may be used to enforce one or more privacy settings of the users of social networking system . A privacy setting of a user determines how particular information associated with a user can be shared. The authorization server may allow users to opt in or opt out of having their actions logged by social networking system or shared with other systems e.g. third party system such as for example by setting appropriate privacy settings. Third party content object stores may be used to store content objects received from third parties such as a third party system . Location stores may be used for storing location information received from client devices associated with users. Ad pricing modules may combine social information the current time location information or other suitable information to provide relevant advertisements in the form of notifications to a user.

In particular embodiments a user node may correspond to a user of social networking system . As an example and not by way of limitation a user may be an individual human user an entity e.g. an enterprise business or third party application or a group e.g. of individuals or entities that interacts or communicates with or over social networking system . In particular embodiments when a user registers for an account with social networking system social networking system may create a user node corresponding to the user and store the user node in one or more data stores. Users and user nodes described herein may where appropriate refer to registered users and user nodes associated with registered users. In addition or as an alternative users and user nodes described herein may where appropriate refer to users that have not registered with social networking system . In particular embodiments a user node may be associated with information provided by a user or information gathered by various systems including social networking system . As an example and not by way of limitation a user may provide his or her name profile picture contact information birth date sex marital status family status employment education background preferences interests or other demographic information. In particular embodiments a user node may be associated with one or more data objects corresponding to information associated with a user. In particular embodiments a user node may correspond to one or more webpages or one or more user profile pages which may be webpages .

In particular embodiments a concept node may correspond to a concept. As an example and not by way of limitation a concept may correspond to a place such as for example a movie theater restaurant landmark or city a website such as for example a website associated with social network system or a third party website associated with a web application server an entity such as for example a person business group sports team or celebrity a resource such as for example an audio file video file digital photo text file structured document or application which may be located within social networking system or on an external server such as a web application server real or intellectual property such as for example a sculpture painting movie game song idea photograph or written work a game an activity an idea or theory another suitable concept or two or more such concepts. A concept node may be associated with information of a concept provided by a user or information gathered by various systems including social networking system . As an example and not by way of limitation information of a concept may include a name or a title one or more images e.g. an image of the cover page of a book a location e.g. an address or a geographical location a website which may be associated with aURL contact information e.g. a phone number or an email address other suitable concept information or any suitable combination of such information. In particular embodiments a concept node may be associated with one or more data objects corresponding to information associated with concept node . In particular embodiments a concept node may correspond to a webpage.

In particular embodiments a node in social graph may represent or be represented by a webpage which may be referred to as a profile page . Profile pages may be hosted by or accessible to social networking system . Profile pages may also be hosted on third party websites associated with a third party server . As an example and not by way of limitation a profile page corresponding to a particular external webpage may be the particular external webpage and the profile page may correspond to a particular concept node . Profile pages may be viewable by all or a selected subset of other users. As an example and not by way of limitation a user node may have a corresponding user profile page in which the corresponding user may add content make declarations or otherwise express himself or herself. As another example and not by way of limitation a concept node may have a corresponding concept profile page in which one or more users may add content make declarations or express themselves particularly in relation to the concept corresponding to concept node .

In particular embodiments a concept node may represent a third party webpage or resource hosted by a third party system . The third party webpage or resource may include among other elements content a selectable or other icon or other inter actable object which may be implemented for example in JavaScript AJAX or PHP codes representing an action or activity. As an example and not by way of limitation a third party webpage may include a selectable icon such as like check in eat recommend or another suitable action or activity. A user viewing the third party webpage may perform an action by selecting one of the icons e.g. eat causing a client system to transmit to social networking system a message indicating the user s action. In response to the message social networking system may create an edge e.g. an eat edge between a user node corresponding to the user and a concept node corresponding to the third party webpage or resource and store edge in one or more data stores.

In particular embodiments a pair of nodes in social graph may be connected to each other by one or more edges . An edge connecting a pair of nodes may represent a relationship between the pair of nodes. In particular embodiments an edge may include or represent one or more data objects or attributes corresponding to the relationship between a pair of nodes. As an example and not by way of limitation a first user may indicate that a second user is a friend of the first user. In response to this indication social networking system may transmit a friend request to the second user. If the second user confirms the friend request social networking system may create an edge connecting the first user s user node to the second user s user node in social graph and store edge as social graph information in one or more of data stores . In the example of social graph includes an edge indicating a friend relation between user nodes of user A and user B and an edge indicating a friend relation between user nodes of user C and user B. Although this disclosure describes or illustrates particular edges with particular attributes connecting particular user nodes this disclosure contemplates any suitable edges with any suitable attributes connecting user nodes . As an example and not by way of limitation an edge may represent a friendship family relationship business or employment relationship fan relationship follower relationship visitor relationship subscriber relationship superior subordinate relationship reciprocal relationship non reciprocal relationship another suitable type of relationship or two or more such relationships. Moreover although this disclosure generally describes nodes as being connected this disclosure also describes users or concepts as being connected. Herein references to users or concepts being connected may where appropriate refer to the nodes corresponding to those users or concepts being connected in social graph by one or more edges .

In particular embodiments an edge between a user node and a concept node may represent a particular action or activity performed by a user associated with user node toward a concept associated with a concept node . As an example and not by way of limitation as illustrated in a user may like attended played listened cooked worked at or watched a concept each of which may correspond to a edge type or subtype. A concept profile page corresponding to a concept node may include for example a selectable check in icon such as for example a clickable check in icon or a selectable add to favorites icon. Similarly after a user clicks these icons social networking system may create a favorite edge or a check in edge in response to a user s action corresponding to a respective action. As another example and not by way of limitation a user user C may listen to a particular song Imagine using a particular application SPOTIFY which is an online music application . In this case social networking system may create a listened edge and a used edge as illustrated in between user nodes corresponding to the user and concept nodes corresponding to the song and application to indicate that the user listened to the song and used the application. Moreover social networking system may create a played edge as illustrated in between concept nodes corresponding to the song and the application to indicate that the particular song was played by the particular application. In this case played edge corresponds to an action performed by an external application SPOTIFY on an external audio file the song Imagine . Although this disclosure describes particular edges with particular attributes connecting user nodes and concept nodes this disclosure contemplates any suitable edges with any suitable attributes connecting user nodes and concept nodes . Moreover although this disclosure describes edges between a user node and a concept node representing a single relationship this disclosure contemplates edges between a user node and a concept node representing one or more relationships. As an example and not by way of limitation an edge may represent both that a user likes and has used at a particular concept. Alternatively another edge may represent each type of relationship or multiples of a single relationship between a user node and a concept node as illustrated in between user node for user E and concept node for SPOTIFY .

In particular embodiments social networking system may create an edge between a user node and a concept node in social graph . As an example and not by way of limitation a user viewing a concept profile page such as for example by using a web browser or a special purpose application hosted by the user s client system may indicate that he or she likes the concept represented by the concept node by clicking or selecting a Like icon which may cause the user s client system to transmit to social networking system a message indicating the user s liking of the concept associated with the concept profile page. In response to the message social networking system may create an edge between user node associated with the user and concept node as illustrated by like edge between the user and concept node . In particular embodiments social networking system may store an edge in one or more data stores. In particular embodiments an edge may be automatically formed by social networking system in response to a particular user action. As an example and not by way of limitation if a first user uploads a picture watches a movie or listens to a song an edge may be formed between user node corresponding to the first user and concept nodes corresponding to those concepts. Although this disclosure describes forming particular edges in particular manners this disclosure contemplates forming any suitable edges in any suitable manner.

While the mobile device may be implemented in a variety of different hardware and computing systems shows a schematic representation of the main components of an example computing platform of a mobile device according to various particular embodiments. In particular embodiments computing platform may comprise controller memory and input output subsystem . In particular embodiments controller which may comprise one or more processors and or one or more microcontrollers configured to execute instructions and to carry out operations associated with a computing platform. In various embodiments controller may be implemented as a single chip multiple chips and or other electrical components including one or more integrated circuits and printed circuit boards. Controller may optionally contain a cache memory unit for temporary local storage of instructions data or computer addresses. By way of example using instructions retrieved from memory controller may control the reception and manipulation of input and output data between components of computing platform . By way of example controller may include one or more processors or one or more controllers dedicated for certain processing tasks of computing platform for example for 2D 3D graphics processing image processing or video processing.

Controller together with a suitable operating system may operate to execute instructions in the form of computer code and produce and use data. By way of example and not by way of limitation the operating system may be Windows based Mac based or Unix or Linux based or Symbian based among other suitable operating systems. The operating system other computer code and or data may be physically stored within memory that is operatively coupled to controller .

Memory may encompass one or more storage media and generally provide a place to store computer code e.g. software and or firmware and data that are used by computing platform . By way of example memory may include various tangible computer readable storage media including Read Only Memory ROM and or Random Access Memory RAM . As is well known in the art ROM acts to transfer data and instructions uni directionally to controller and RAM is used typically to transfer data and instructions in a bi directional manner. Memory may also include one or more fixed storage devices in the form of by way of example hard disk drives HDDs solid state drives SSDs flash memory cards e.g. Secured Digital or SD cards among other suitable forms of memory coupled bi directionally to controller . Information may also reside on one or more removable storage media loaded into or installed in computing platform when needed. By way of example any of a number of suitable memory cards e.g. SD cards may be loaded into computing platform on a temporary or permanent basis.

Input output subsystem may comprise one or more input and output devices operably connected to controller . For example input output subsystem may include keyboard mouse one or more buttons and or display e.g. liquid crystal display LCD or any other suitable display technology . Generally input devices are configured to transfer data commands and responses from the outside world into computing platform . The display is generally configured to display a graphical user interface GUI that provides an easy to use visual interface between a user of the computing platform and the operating system or application s running on the mobile device. Generally the GUI presents programs files and operational options with graphical images. During operation the user may select and activate various graphical images displayed on the display in order to initiate functions and tasks associated therewith. Input output subsystem may also include touch based devices such as touch pad and touch screen. A touchpad is an input device including a surface that detects touch based inputs of users. Similarly a touch screen is a display that detects the presence and location of user touch inputs. Input output system may also include dual touch or multi touch displays or touch pads that can identify the presence location and movement of more than one touch inputs such as two or three finger touches.

In particular embodiments computing platform may additionally comprise audio subsystem camera subsystem wireless communication subsystem sensor subsystems and or wired communication subsystem operably connected to controller to facilitate various functions of computing platform . For example Audio subsystem including a speaker a microphone and a codec module configured to process audio signals can be utilized to facilitate voice enabled functions such as voice recognition voice replication digital recording and telephony functions. For example camera subsystem including an optical sensor e.g. a charged coupled device CCD image sensor can be utilized to facilitate camera functions such as recording photographs and video clips. For example wired communication subsystem can include a Universal Serial Bus USB port for file transferring or a Ethernet port for connection to a local area network LAN . Additionally computing platform may be powered by power source .

Wireless communication subsystem can be designed to operate over one or more wireless networks for example a wireless PAN WPAN e.g. a BLUETOOTH a WI FI network e.g. an 802.11a b g n network a WI MAX network a cellular network such as for example a Global System for Mobile Communications GSM network a Long Term Evolution LTE network . Additionally wireless communication subsystem may include hosting protocols such that computing platform may be configured as a base station for other wireless devices. Other input output devices may include an accelerometer that can be used to detect the orientation of the device.

Sensor subsystem may include one or more sensor devices to provide additional input and facilitate multiple functionalities of computing platform . For example sensor subsystems may include GPS sensor for location positioning altimeter for altitude positioning motion sensor for determining orientation of a mobile device light sensor for photographing function with camera subsystem temperature sensor for measuring ambient temperature and or biometric sensor for security application e.g. fingerprint reader .

In particular embodiments various components of computing platform may be operably connected together by one or more buses including hardware and or software . As an example and not by way of limitation the one or more buses may include an Accelerated Graphics Port AGP or other graphics bus a front side bus FSB a HYPERTRANSPORT HT interconnect an Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus an INFINIBAND interconnect a low pin count LPC bus a memory bus a Peripheral Component Interconnect Express PCI Express bus a serial advanced technology attachment SATA bus a Inter Integrated Circuit I2C bus a Secure Digital SD memory interface a Secure Digital Input Output SDIO interface a Universal Serial Bus USB bus a General Purpose Input Output GPIO bus an Advanced Microcontroller Bus Architecture AMBA bus or another suitable bus or a combination of two or more of these.

The mobile device may execute one or more software applications e.g. running on an operating system of computing platform . The execution of these applications may cause one or more processors e.g. of controller to enter an active processing state. For example executing an application for displaying video content e.g. a movie may cause one or more processors to enter an active state in order to process e.g. decode the video content to be displayed on a screen e.g. touch screen at the next screen refresh. The execution of these applications may also cause one or more processors to enter an idle or sleep state. For example executing an application for displaying video content may cause one or more processors to enter an idle state while waiting for the delivery of the next batch e.g. frame of video content to be processed and then displayed. The delivery of the next batch of video content may be the result of one or more external operations. For a given processor an external operation may be an operation that occurs off the processor separate from the processor or otherwise external to the processor. The external operation may for example provide an input e.g. a signal to the processor. The execution of a software application may cause one or more sequences of instructions e.g. processes or threads associated with the application to execute. For example executing an application for displaying video content may cause one or more sequences of instructions to start executing causing one or more processors to enter an active state and later stop executing causing one or more processors to enter an idle state . Such patterns of activity of sequences of instructions may cause a processor to alternately enter active and idle states within a given time period. In particular embodiments by analyzing such patterns a processor level clocking policy may be developed to adjust the clocking speed or period based on the activity level including inactivity of the processor. This may improve power usage by the processor as the power used by a processor is related to the square of the clock speed. Additionally the voltage required by the processor may be reduced when the clocking speed of the processor is reduced this reduced voltage requirement may further reduce the power usage by the processor.

As an example one type of application that may be executed by a client device such as mobile device is a video player for displaying video content. The execution of this type of application requires that video content to be displayed is processed e.g. decoded or updated and ready to display at each screen refresh. For example the screen of mobile device e.g. touch screen may be refreshed based on a vertical sync signal Vsync with a period of for example M milliseconds. The period of Vsync may be determined for example by a frame rate of the video player application. Thus in this example a sequence of instructions of the video player application running on a processor of mobile device would upon seeing the Vsync trigger begin processing video content for display at the next screen refresh i.e. the next Vsync trigger . The sequence of instructions would need to complete processing the video content within the M millisecond timeframe dictated by the period of the Vsync signal so that the content is ready for display at the next screen refresh i.e. the next Vsync trigger . While the sequence of instructions is actively processing the video content the processor on which the sequence of instructions is executing may be in an active state.

It may happen in some instances that the sequence of instructions completes processing the video content to be displayed at the next screen refresh in a time less than M milliseconds i.e. before the next Vsync trigger and waits for the next batch of video content to be delivered e.g. by an external operation . During this waiting period the processor on which the sequence of instructions is executing may be in an idle or sleep state. In particular embodiments by analyzing the pattern of activity and idle time of the processor or the pattern of activity of the sequence of instructions the clocking speed of the processor executing the sequence of instructions may be reduced. Reducing the clocking speed may be done in such a manner as to ensure that the task e.g. processing of the video content completes within the M millisecond timeframe while also reducing the idle time of the processor. This may allow for power savings due to the reduced clock speed of the processor. The new lower processor clock speed may be calculated as follows based on data collected for example in a log 

It may also happen however that the sequence of instructions does not complete processing the video content in a time less than M milliseconds and instead takes some amount of time longer than M milliseconds to process the video content i.e. after the next Vsync trigger and screen refresh have already occurred . In this example the clock speed may need to be increased in order to ensure that the task at hand e.g. processing video content in time for display at the next screen refresh may be completed. The new higher processor clock speed may be calculated as follows based on data collected for example in a log 

Although particular embodiments illustrating the adjustment of clock speed have been discussed the adjustment of clock speed either overclocking or underclocking may be done for any suitable type of sequence of instructions on a processor as appropriate. As an example in the case of a sequential data processing task e.g. a task depending on a network or disk IO a processing sequence of instructions may instruct a reader sequence of instructions e.g. executed by another processor to read in or fetch data. The processing sequence of instructions may wait or sleep i.e. the processor executing the processing sequence of instructions may idle until the reader sequence of instructions returns the first batch of data to the processing sequence of instructions. The processing sequence of instructions may immediately instruct the reader sequence of instructions to read in data again and while the processing sequence of instructions is waiting for the next batch of data from the reader sequence of instructions it may process the first batch of data. If the latency of the reader sequence of instructions e.g. the read time exceeds the processing time of the data then it may be desirable to reduce the clock speed of the processor executing the processing sequence of instructions i.e. underclock the processor . The new speed may be calculated using equation 1 above. In this particular case the new clock speed would equal the old clock speed multiplied by the processing time of the data the active time of the processor divided by the read time which equals the active time plus any idle time of the processor as the processing sequence of instructions waits for the reader sequence of instructions to return the next batch of data . If however the processing time of the data exceeds the latency of the reader sequence of instructions e.g. the read time then it may be desirable to increase the clock speed of the processor executing the processing sequence of instructions i.e. overclock the processor . The new speed may be calculated using equation 2 above.

In particular embodiments patterns of activity of sequences of instructions may be analyzed to develop a processor level clocking policy to adjust the clocking speed of a processor. A scheduler or a kernel of an operating system running on a processor of mobile device may see at an instruction sequence level different signals indicating the activity over time of various sequences of instructions of the processor as well as various signals indicating external operations. As an example the kernel may see the following pattern of instruction sequence execution activity with each number representing an identifier for a sequence of instructions over time 

This activity data of sequences of instructions e.g. observed by a kernel or scheduler may be captured over time for example in a log at mobile device . The log may also be sent to a centralized location such as a server of a social networking system. The data in the log may be analyzed e.g. locally by a kernel or scheduler of mobile device or remotely by server to detect patterns related to sequences of instructions starting or stopping and therefore patterns related to processor activity or idle time at mobile device . Patterns related to instruction sequences may be repetitive which may allow for the patterns to be used to predict or control processor behavior. These patterns may then be used for example to create a processor clocking policy so that the processor may be automatically underclocked or overclocked as appropriate. Additionally higher level information e.g. data from software layers higher than the kernel or scheduler level including user activity information e.g. whether a user is touching touch screen application information e.g. whether a movie is playing on mobile device or what frame rate is required by an application running on mobile device or device information e.g. whether touch screen is on or off may also be logged sent to a centralized location e.g. server and analyzed in conjunction with activity data of sequences of instructions to detect patterns and create and refine processor clocking policies. In particular embodiments the data may be gathered and then analyzed e.g. by a kernel or scheduler of mobile device or by server to create a set of categories for machine learning based classification in order to create a decision table and processor clocking policy. Any suitable machine learning technique may be used including but not limited to decision trees expert systems statistical regressions probability densities and probabilistic automata. As an example the use of machine learning may lead to a recognition of the pattern that sequences of instructions denoted and wait a certain amount of time e.g. on average for the Vsync signal before further instruction sequence activity can take place i.e. the processor is idle between when sequences of instructions and stop and the Vsync signal is observed. A recognition of this pattern may lead to the creation e.g. by a kernel or scheduler of mobile device or by server of a policy that automatically underclocks the processor to avoid unnecessary idle time when sequences of instructions and are executed by the processor. This disclosure contemplates the detection of other types of dependencies in the activity data of sequences of instructions or higher level information. By capturing instruction sequence activity from a user over time e.g. over hundreds of hours patterns in usage that may for example be dependent on usage context e.g. a particular application running on mobile device may be detected. Additionally activity data of sequences of instructions may also be gathered from multiple users e.g. the users of social networking system and patterns in usage that depend on usage context or on a particular user may be detected. Data may be gathered from a user or users e.g. uploaded from each user s mobile device to server on a periodic basis e.g. every week in order to capture changes in a user s behavior that may affect the optimal clocking policy.

Once a clocking policy or set of policies are created e.g. by a kernel or scheduler of mobile device or by server these policies may be placed on mobile device and subsequently applied for example by a kernel of an operating system running on mobile device to automatically underclock or overclock a processor of mobile device when a pattern specified in the policy or policies is detected. These policies may be flashed onto a memory of the mobile device and run natively on mobile device . It is contemplated in this disclosure that a pre determined and pre stored e.g. flashed policy or set of policies may be used in combination with dynamically created clocking policies at mobile device .

This disclosure contemplates any suitable number of computer systems . This disclosure contemplates computer system taking any suitable physical form. As example and not by way of limitation computer system may be an embedded computer system a system on chip SOC a single board computer system SBC such as for example a computer on module COM or system on module SOM a desktop computer system a laptop or notebook computer system an interactive kiosk a mainframe a mesh of computer systems a mobile telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a server a tablet computer system or a combination of two or more of these. Where appropriate computer system may include one or more computer systems be unitary or distributed span multiple locations span multiple machines span multiple data centers or reside in a cloud which may include one or more cloud components in one or more networks. Where appropriate one or more computer systems may perform without substantial spatial or temporal limitation one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. As an example and not by way of limitation one or more computer systems may perform in real time or in batch mode one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. One or more computer systems may perform at different times or at different locations one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein where appropriate.

In particular embodiments computer system includes a processor memory storage an input output I O interface a communication interface and a bus . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular computer system having a particular number of particular components in a particular arrangement this disclosure contemplates any suitable computer system having any suitable number of any suitable components in any suitable arrangement.

In particular embodiments processor includes hardware for executing instructions such as those making up a computer program. As an example and not by way of limitation to execute instructions processor may retrieve or fetch the instructions from an internal register an internal cache memory or storage decode and execute them and then write one or more results to an internal register an internal cache memory or storage . In particular embodiments processor may include one or more internal caches for data instructions or addresses. This disclosure contemplates processor including any suitable number of any suitable internal caches where appropriate. As an example and not by way of limitation processor may include one or more instruction caches one or more data caches and one or more translation lookaside buffers TLBs . Instructions in the instruction caches may be copies of instructions in memory or storage and the instruction caches may speed up retrieval of those instructions by processor . Data in the data caches may be copies of data in memory or storage for instructions executing at processor to operate on the results of previous instructions executed at processor for access by subsequent instructions executing at processor or for writing to memory or storage or other suitable data. The data caches may speed up read or write operations by processor . The TLBs may speed up virtual address translation for processor . In particular embodiments processor may include one or more internal registers for data instructions or addresses. This disclosure contemplates processor including any suitable number of any suitable internal registers where appropriate. Where appropriate processor may include one or more arithmetic logic units ALUs be a multi core processor or include one or more processors . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular processor this disclosure contemplates any suitable processor.

In particular embodiments memory includes main memory for storing instructions for processor to execute or data for processor to operate on. As an example and not by way of limitation computer system may load instructions from storage or another source such as for example another computer system to memory . Processor may then load the instructions from memory to an internal register or internal cache. To execute the instructions processor may retrieve the instructions from the internal register or internal cache and decode them. During or after execution of the instructions processor may write one or more results which may be intermediate or final results to the internal register or internal cache. Processor may then write one or more of those results to memory . In particular embodiments processor executes only instructions in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory as opposed to storage or elsewhere and operates only on data in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory as opposed to storage or elsewhere . One or more memory buses which may each include an address bus and a data bus may couple processor to memory . Bus may include one or more memory buses as described below. In particular embodiments one or more memory management units MMUs reside between processor and memory and facilitate accesses to memory requested by processor . In particular embodiments memory includes random access memory RAM . This RAM may be volatile memory where appropriate Where appropriate this RAM may be dynamic RAM DRAM or static RAM SRAM . Moreover where appropriate this RAM may be single ported or multi ported RAM. This disclosure contemplates any suitable RAM. Memory may include one or more memories where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular memory this disclosure contemplates any suitable memory.

In particular embodiments storage includes mass storage for data or instructions. As an example and not by way of limitation storage may include a hard disk drive HDD a floppy disk drive flash memory an optical disc a magneto optical disc magnetic tape or a Universal Serial Bus USB drive or a combination of two or more of these. Storage may include removable or non removable or fixed media where appropriate. Storage may be internal or external to computer system where appropriate. In particular embodiments storage is non volatile solid state memory. In particular embodiments storage includes read only memory ROM . Where appropriate this ROM may be mask programmed ROM programmable ROM PROM erasable PROM EPROM electrically erasable PROM EEPROM electrically alterable ROM EAROM or flash memory or a combination of two or more of these. This disclosure contemplates mass storage taking any suitable physical form. Storage may include one or more storage control units facilitating communication between processor and storage where appropriate. Where appropriate storage may include one or more storages . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular storage this disclosure contemplates any suitable storage.

In particular embodiments I O interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication between computer system and one or more I O devices. Computer system may include one or more of these I O devices where appropriate. One or more of these I O devices may enable communication between a person and computer system . As an example and not by way of limitation an I O device may include a keyboard keypad microphone monitor mouse printer scanner speaker still camera stylus tablet touch screen trackball video camera another suitable I O device or a combination of two or more of these. An I O device may include one or more sensors. This disclosure contemplates any suitable I O devices and any suitable I O interfaces for them. Where appropriate I O interface may include one or more device or software drivers enabling processor to drive one or more of these I O devices. I O interface may include one or more I O interfaces where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular I O interface this disclosure contemplates any suitable I O interface.

In particular embodiments communication interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication such as for example packet based communication between computer system and one or more other computer systems or one or more networks. As an example and not by way of limitation communication interface may include a network interface controller NIC or network adapter for communicating with an Ethernet or other wire based network or a wireless NIC WNIC or wireless adapter for communicating with a wireless network such as a WI FI network. This disclosure contemplates any suitable network and any suitable communication interface for it. As an example and not by way of limitation computer system may communicate with an ad hoc network a personal area network PAN a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a metropolitan area network MAN or one or more portions of the Internet or a combination of two or more of these. One or more portions of one or more of these networks may be wired or wireless. As an example computer system may communicate with a wireless PAN WPAN such as for example a BLUETOOTH WPAN a WI FI network a WI MAX network a cellular telephone network such as for example a Global System for Mobile Communications GSM network or other suitable wireless network or a combination of two or more of these. Computer system may include any suitable communication interface for any of these networks where appropriate. Communication interface may include one or more communication interfaces where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular communication interface this disclosure contemplates any suitable communication interface.

In particular embodiments bus includes hardware software or both coupling components of computer system to each other. As an example and not by way of limitation bus may include an Accelerated Graphics Port AGP or other graphics bus an Enhanced Industry Standard Architecture EISA bus a front side bus FSB a HYPERTRANSPORT HT interconnect an Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus an INFINIBAND interconnect a low pin count LPC bus a memory bus a Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus a PCI Express PCIe bus a serial advanced technology attachment SATA bus a Video Electronics Standards Association local VLB bus or another suitable bus or a combination of two or more of these. Bus may include one or more buses where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular bus this disclosure contemplates any suitable bus or interconnect.

Herein a computer readable non transitory storage medium or media may include one or more semiconductor based or other integrated circuits ICs such as for example field programmable gate arrays FPGAs or application specific ICs ASICs hard disk drives HDDs hybrid hard drives HHDs optical discs optical disc drives ODDs magneto optical discs magneto optical drives floppy diskettes floppy disk drives FDDs magnetic tapes solid state drives SSDs RAM drives SECURE DIGITAL cards or drives any other suitable computer readable non transitory storage media or any suitable combination of two or more of these where appropriate. A computer readable non transitory storage medium may be volatile non volatile or a combination of volatile and non volatile where appropriate.

Herein or is inclusive and not exclusive unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Therefore herein A or B means A B or both unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Moreover and is both joint and several unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Therefore herein A and B means A and B jointly or severally unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context.

The scope of this disclosure encompasses all changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications to the example embodiments described or illustrated herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. The scope of this disclosure is not limited to the example embodiments described or illustrated herein. Moreover although this disclosure describes and illustrates respective embodiments herein as including particular components elements functions operations or steps any of these embodiments may include any combination or permutation of any of the components elements functions operations or steps described or illustrated anywhere herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. Furthermore reference in the appended claims to an apparatus or system or a component of an apparatus or system being adapted to arranged to capable of configured to enabled to operable to or operative to perform a particular function encompasses that apparatus system component whether or not it or that particular function is activated turned on or unlocked as long as that apparatus system or component is so adapted arranged capable configured enabled operable or operative.

