---

title: Geopolymer resin materials, geopolymer materials, and materials produced thereby
abstract: A product formed from a first material including a geopolymer resin material, a geopolymer resin, or a combination thereof by contacting the first material with a fluid and removing at least some of the fluid to yield a product. The first material may be formed by heating and/or aging an initial geopolymer resin material to yield the first material before contacting the first material with the fluid. In some cases, contacting the first material with the fluid breaks up or disintegrates the first material (e.g., in response to contact with the fluid and in the absence of external mechanical stress), thereby forming particles having an external dimension in a range between 1 nm and 2 cm.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09296654&OS=09296654&RS=09296654
owner: ARIZONA BOARD OF REGENTS, A BODY CORPORATE OF THE STATE OF ARIZONA ACTING FOR AND ON BEHALF OF ARIZONA STATE UNIVERSITY
number: 09296654
owner_city: Scottsdale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120921
---
This application is a U.S. National Phase Application of International Patent Application No. PCT US2012 056552 filed Sep. 21 2012 which claims priority to U.S. application Ser. No. 61 537 378 filed on Sep. 21 2011 and U.S. application Ser. No. 61 650 338 filed on May 22 2012 all of which are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety.

This work was supported by the Center for Bio Inspired Solar Fuel Production an Energy Frontier Research Center funded by the U.S. Department of Energy Office of Science Office of Basic Energy Sciences under award number DE SC0001016. The government has certain rights in the invention.

This invention relates to geopolymer resin materials geopolymer materials and materials formed therefrom.

As used herein a geopolymer resin is an aqueous mixture formed by dissolving selected metal precursors in an alkali solution. Some geopolymer resins are formed by coupled alkali mediated dissolution and polycondensation reactions of aluminosilicates in an aqueous media. Other geopolymer resins are formed through acid base reactions for example between an acidic phosphate precursor solution and basic metal oxide precursors. A geopolymer is formed by curing a geopolymer resin. Geopolymers are commonly referred to by a variety of terms including low temperature aluminosilicate glass alkali activated cement geocement alkali bonded ceramic inorganic polymer concrete and hydroceramic.

In one aspect a first material is contacted with a fluid and at least some of the fluid is removed to yield a product. The first material includes a geopolymer resin material a geopolymer material or a combination thereof.

Implementations may include one or more of the following features. For example an initial geopolymer resin material may be heated and or aged to yield the first material after which the first material is contacted with the fluid. Contacting the first material with the fluid can break up or disintegrate the first material thereby forming particles. That is the first material can break up or disintegrate in response to contact with the fluid and in the absence of external mechanical stress.

In some cases the first material includes one or more organic compounds each having a molecular weight less than 1000 g mol e.g. the first material does not include organic compounds having a molecular weight of 1000 g mol or more such as organic polymers . The first material may include vegetable oil plant oil animal oil waste vegetable oil waste animal oil fat biodiesel fatty acid lipid ester carboxylic acid or a combination thereof. The first material may be a monolith. In one example the first material includes a geopolymer resin material the fluid is miscible with the first material and the product is a homogeneous mixture.

In another example the first material includes a geopolymer resin material and the product includes a different geopolymer resin material. In yet another example the first material includes a geopolymer resin material the fluid is immiscible with the first material and the product includes a different geopolymer resin material. In certain cases the first material includes a geopolymer resin material and the product includes a geopolymer material.

In one example the first material includes a geopolymer resin material and the geopolymer resin material includes an organic compound that reacts with an alkali solution to produce one or more carboxylate ions having a molecular weight less than 400 g mol. In another example the first material includes a geopolymer resin material and the geopolymer resin material includes carboxylate ions having a molecular weight less than 400 g mol. Contacting the first material with the fluid may include transferring carboxylate ions from the first material to the fluid thereby increasing a concentration of carboxylate ions in the fluid.

The product can be a nanostructured zeolite in the form of particles agglomerates of particles and or aggregates of particles. In some cases at least 50 of the particles have an external dimension between 1 nm and 100 nm. The nanostructured zeolite may have internal or surface structures in one or more dimensions between 1 nm and 100 nm or an external specific surface area by volume greater than 60 m cm. The product may be porous with a majority of the pores being micropores mesopores or macropores. In some cases the product is hierarchically porous.

The fluid can be water or an aqueous solution. In certain cases the fluid includes an organic solvent a dissolved dispersed or suspended species or both. In some cases the fluid includes steam.

Thus particular embodiments have been described. Variations modifications and enhancements of the described embodiments and other embodiments can be made based on what is described and illustrated. In addition one or more features of one or more embodiments may be combined. The details of one or more implementations and various features and aspects are set forth in the accompanying drawings the description and the claims below.

Geopolymer resins can be prepared in various ways. In one example a geopolymer resin is prepared by dissolution of metal oxide precursors via acid base reactions and subsequent precipitation of phosphates or silico phosphates. In another example geopolymer resins are prepared by coupled alkali mediated dissolution and precipitation reactions of silicate or aluminosilicate precursors in an aqueous media. Geopolymer resins including silico aluminophosphates can be prepared by reacting metakaolin or metakaolinite with phosphoric acid. Still other geopolymer resins can be formed by reacting a clay material with an alkaline or acidic solution. In other examples metakaolin and metakaolinite are reacted with an alkaline solution to form a geopolymer resin. A geopolymer resin typically includes water and dissolved dispersed or suspended inorganic species and may appear to be homogeneous upon visual inspection. Geopolymer resins are described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 513 220 filed Jun. 1 2012 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Curing a geopolymer resin may yield a geopolymer gel or a geopolymer. The curing process may take place at temperatures including for example an ambient temperature e.g. 15 35 C. and an elevated temperature e.g. 40 90 C. . Following the IUPAC Recommendations 2007 J. Alem n et. al. Definitions of Terms Relating to the Structure and Processing of Sols Gels Networks and Inorganic Organic Hybrid Materials Pure and Applied Chemistry 2007 79 1801 curing is a chemical process of converting a prepolymer or a polymer into a polymer of higher molar mass and then into a network. Curing is achieved by the induction of chemical reactions which might or might not require mixing with a chemical curing agent. Following the IUPAC Recommendations 2007 a gel is a non fluid colloidal network or polymer network that is expanded throughout its whole volume by a fluid. A geopolymer gel contains an inorganic colloidal or polymer network e.g. a network formed by polycondensation of inorganic precursors. In some cases a geopolymer is a geopolymer gel that has lost at least some liquid from the gel e.g. water . In some case curing may be accompanied by at least some loss of the liquid e.g. through evaporation . As used herein geopolymer material generally refers to a geopolymer gel a geopolymer a geopolymer gel composite a geopolymer composite or a combination thereof.

Under certain conditions with certain compositions or both a geopolymer resin may cure incompletely e.g. partially cured or not at all e.g. uncured . An uncured or partially cured geopolymer resin does not contain an inorganic colloidal or polymeric network that is expanded throughout its whole volume by a fluid. An inorganic network structure in an uncured or partially cured geopolymer resin may be discrete or may be partially expanded in a fluid. A geopolymer resin material may contain discrete particles agglomerates aggregates or a combination thereof. As used herein geopolymer resin material generally refers to a geopolymer resin a partially cured geopolymer resin a geopolymer resin composite a partially cured geopolymer resin composite or a combination thereof. A geopolymer resin material can be a liquid semi liquid semi solid or solid and may appear heterogeneous upon visual inspection. A solid geopolymer resin material may be obtained when fluid e.g. water in a geopolymer resin material is removed e.g. by evaporation without undergoing a gel formation. Partial removal of water from a geopolymer resin material may yield a paste. A geopolymer resin material may become fluidic when it is stirred or shaken.

Partial curing of a geopolymer resin or a geopolymer resin composite can occur with short curing times several hours or a day for example and or low curing temperatures at room temperature for example . In some cases partial curing occurs when a large amount of water and or alkali is present in a geopolymer resin or a geopolymer resin composite or when an organic component is present in the geopolymer resin or the geopolymer resin composite. In some cases partial curing may be accompanied by at least some loss of the liquid e.g. through evaporation from the geopolymer resin or the geopolymer resin composite. Elevated temperatures typically accelerate curing. In some cases the temperature is varied during curing or partially curing. In certain cases a geopolymer resin or a geopolymer resin composite is kept at a certain temperature room temperature for example for a period of time i.e. aged before curing or partially curing. In some cases a geopolymer resin or a geopolymer resin composite is aged after curing or partially curing.

A geopolymer resin composite can be prepared by the addition of multiple components to a geopolymer resin. Curing of a geopolymer resin composite may yield a geopolymer composite multicomponent geopolymer . Multicomponent geopolymers are described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 244 726 and 7 771 686 both of which are incorporated by reference herein. Examples of components of multicomponent geopolymers or geopolymer composites include nanoparticles nanomaterials inorganic particulates organic particulates biological materials molecules cations anions and the like. Other components include for example a structure directing agent or pore templating agent such as quaternary ammonium ions cyclodextrins surfactants glucose starch cellulose fibers and the like. Other components include for example water miscible organic monomers oligomers macromers polymers compounds that can be hydrolyzed and condensed with a geopolymer resin such as organosilanes organosiloxanes organoalumoxanes and organo metal oxides inorganic compounds such as water soluble organometallic complexes and inorganic metal compounds water miscible fluids such as glycerol ethylene glycol polyols alcohols acetone tetrahydrofuran dimethyl sulfoxide and N methylpyrrolidone and materials that generate gas when in contact with a geopolymer resin e.g. hydrogen peroxide aluminum metal or silica fume . In some cases additional components include vegetable oil plant oil animal oil waste vegetable oil waste animal oil fat biodiesel fatty acid lipid ester carboxylic acid petroleum based oil or a combination of thereof. The vegetable oil plant oil animal oil waste vegetable oil waste animal oil fat biodiesel fatty acid lipid ester or carboxylic acid may react with the geopolymer resin to produce carboxylate anions.

Sources of silicon in geopolymer materials and geopolymer resin materials can include for example fumed silica rice husk rice husk ash silica fume silicates aluminosilicates organosilanes clays minerals metakaolin calcined clays activated clays fly ash slag pozzolan incinerated utility waste industrial by products glass powder red mud and the like. Sources of aluminum in geopolymers and geopolymer resins can include for example alumina aluminates aluminum salts organoalumoxanes clays minerals metakaolin calcined clays activated clays fly ash slag pozzolan incinerated utility waste industrial by products glass powder red mud and the like. Sources of phosphorous in geopolymers and geoopolymer resins can include phosphoric acid phosphates hydrophosphates organophosphine oxide and the like. Some geopolymers or geopolymer resins include one or more metals in their ionic or elemental form such as Li Na K Rb Cs Be Mg Ca Sr Ba Ra B Al Ga In Tl Si Ge Sn Pb P As Sb Bi S Se Te Po Ti Zr Hf V Nb Ta Cr Mo W Mn Tc Re Fe Ru Os Co Rh Ir Ni Pd Pt Cu Ag Au Zn Cd Hg Sc Y Lu La Ce Pr Nd Sm Eu Gd Tb Dy Ho Er Tm Yb Th U Pu or any combination thereof. The preparation of geopolymers and geopolymer composites is described for example in W. M. Kriven Inorganic Polysialates or Geopolymers American Ceramic Society Bulletin 2010 89 31 A. S. Wagh Chemically Bonded Phosphate Ceramics A Novel Class of Geopolymers Ceramic Transactions 2005 165 101 and Chapter 1 of by J. Davidovits D. S. Perera et al. Relative Strengths of Phosphoric Acid Reacted and Alkali Reacted Metakaolin Materials Journal of Material Science 2008 43 6562 all of which are incorporated by reference herein.

Referring to a process for preparing a material includes contacting a geopolymer resin material or a geopolymer material with a fluid e.g. a liquid a mixture of liquids a gas a mixture of gases or a combination thereof in . The fluid may be compressed or under pressure. In some cases the fluid includes steam. The geopolymer resin material may include particles of a geopolymer or geopolymer composite. The geopolymer resin material may be a liquid semi liquid paste semi solid or solid including a soft or semi rigid solid.

In some cases a geopolymer material has cracks and or microcracks in its body. The cracks and or microcracks may develop during the formation of the geopolymer material. The extent and shape of the cracks and or microcracks may change under different formation conditions including humidity level curing time and temperatures. The cracks and or microcracks may develop by leaching or corrosion of the geopolymer material a chemical attack by an acid or base thermal shock treatment with a fluid or the like. Capillary pressure exerted on pore walls in the body of a geopolymer material may promote formation of the cracks and or microcracks.

The fluid in can include water or an aqueous solution e.g. an acidic basic or buffer solution or an organic solvent e.g. an alcohol such as methanol and ethanol or an organic solution e.g. a ferric chloride FeCl.6HO solution in methanol . When the fluid includes an organic solvent the organic solvent may be volatile and undergo evaporate while the fluid is in contact with a geopolymer resin material or a geopolymer material. The organic solvent may be more viscous than water. In some cases the fluid is immiscible with the geopolymer resin material miscible with water or both. In certain cases the fluid is an aqueous or organic solution or mixture including dissolved dispersed or suspended species including molecules metal precursors metals semiconductors insulators monomers oligomers polymers macromers ions salts biomaterials surfactants clusters nanoparticles nanomaterials particles fibers fillers inorganic particles organic particles inorganic compounds organic compounds solvated molecules cations anions organic solvents emulsions fibers foams porous materials quantum dots magnetic materials and others including structure directing agents or pore templating agent such as quaternary ammonium ions cyclodextrins glucose starch cellulose fibers surfactants and the like or a combination of thereof. Suitable surfactants include for example polymeric or polymerizable surfactants cationic anionic or nonionic surfactants and the like. One or more components in the fluid may react with e.g. bond ionically or covalently to one or more of the inorganic or organic components of a geopolymer resin material or a geopolymer material. In some implementations these species may be added to the fluid after the fluid is contacted with a geopolymer resin material or a geopolymer material.

Contacting a geopolymer resin material or a geopolymer material with a fluid can include mixing blending shaking shearing homogenizing agitating stirring sonicating and or vibrating the geopolymer resin material or the geopolymer material with the fluid or crushing pounding grinding pulverizing milling crumbling smashing mashing pressing or triturating the geopolymer resin material or the geopolymer material in the fluid. In certain cases contacting a geopolymer resin material or a geopolymer material with the fluid includes soaking the geopolymer resin material or the geopolymer material in the fluid or rinsing the geopolymer resin material or the geopolymer material with the fluid.

Contacting a geopolymer resin material or a geopolymer material with a fluid may increase or decrease the temperature of the geopolymer resin material or the geopolymer material. The geopolymer resin material or the geopolymer material and the fluid may be at different temperatures before contacting. In some cases contacting a geopolymer resin material or the geopolymer material with a fluid can be carried out at above or below room temperature or when the fluid the geopolymer resin material or the geopolymer material or both are heated or cooled. In certain cases contacting a geopolymer resin material or the geopolymer material with a fluid is carried out by condensation of the fluid onto and or into the geopolymer resin material or the geopolymer material or under pressure.

In some cases contacting a geopolymer resin material or a geopolymer material with a fluid causes one or more of the components of the fluid to transfer to the geopolymer resin material or the geopolymer material and or one or more of the components of the geopolymer resin material or the geopolymer material e.g. water to transfer to the fluid. One or more of the components of the fluid may react with one or more of the components of the geopolymer resin material or the geopolymer material. The reaction may include for example acid base neutralization or covalent bonding e.g. crosslinking . In some cases one or more of the components of the fluid bond covalently with one or more of the components of the geopolymer resin material or the geopolymer material. Contacting a geopolymer resin material or a geopolymer material with the fluid may cause a change in the pH viscosity or ionic strength of the geopolymer resin material or the geopolymer material. In some cases contacting a geopolymer resin material with the fluid accelerates or decelerates curing of the geopolymer resin material.

Contacting a geopolymer resin material with a fluid may yield a homogeneous mixture. The homogeneous mixture may have a composition different from that of the geopolymer resin material e.g. due at least in part to the dissolved dispersed or suspended species . In some cases the dissolved dispersed or suspended species may alter the pH of the homogeneous mixture with respect to that of the geopolymer resin material such that the homogeneous mixture has a pH different from that of the geopolymer resin material.

Contacting a geopolymer resin material or a geopolymer material with the fluid may yield a heterogeneous mixture of the geopolymer resin material or the geopolymer material and the fluid. In one example contacting a geopolymer resin material with a fluid yields droplets of the geopolymer resin material dispersed in the fluid. In some cases contacting a geopolymer resin material or a geopolymer material with a fluid causes breaking up or disintegration of the geopolymer resin material or the geopolymer material into particles. For example a geopolymer resin material or a geopolymer material may disintegrate to form particles agglomerates of particles and or aggregates of particles when it is contacted with a fluid such as water. In some cases a dimension of the particles is in a range between 1 nm and 2 cm. The disintegration can yield a dispersion or suspension. In some cases the particles are phase separated by gravity or by flocculation. The particles may be formed with or without external mechanical stress e.g. without a mechanical aid such as pressing mixing blending shaking shearing homogenizing agitating stirring sonicating vibrating and the like .

In at least some of the fluid is removed to form a first product. Removing at least some of the fluid can include removal of dissolved species and or exchange of the fluid with another fluid. The first product may differ e.g. in composition pH etc. from the geopolymer resin material or the geopolymer material. Removing the fluid may include decantation filtration centrifugation drying supercritical drying freeze drying evaporation dehydrating heating pyrolyzing calcining or the like. In some cases removing the fluid includes flocculation agglomeration aggregation coagulation or coalescence via addition of a clarifying agent flocculant or coagulant. The fluid content may be controlled to improve mechanical properties e.g. compressive strength of the first product. In one example when the first product is monolithic fluid content is selectively controlled to reduce or avoid the cracks in the resulting material.

In process contacting a geopolymer resin material or a geopolymer material with a fluid in and or subsequently removing at least some of the fluid in can be carried out more than once with the same or different fluids.

In some cases the first product is in the form of a dispersion or suspension. In other cases a majority of the fluid is removed yielding a particulate or powdered first product. A majority of the first product particulates may be smaller than 2 cm 5 mm 10 microns 1 micron or 100 nm. The particulate material may consist essentially of or may include a nanomaterial or nanostructured material i.e. a material that consists of particulates agglomerates of particles and or aggregates of particles for which the particles have one or more external dimensions in the size range 1 100 nm for more than about 50 of their number and or has internal or surface structures in one or more dimensions in the size range 1 100 nm and or has an external specific surface area by volume greater than 60 m cm . The external specific surface area of a material may be estimated from gas sorption experiments for example as the difference between the Brunauer Emmett Teller BET surface area and the specific surface area from micropores in the material. The specific surface area from micropores can be estimated for example from the t plot method. Examples of nanostructured materials include nanoparticles nanorods nanoribbons nanosheets nanoplates nanowires nanofibers and nanoporous materials.

The first product may exhibit macropores mesopores micropores or a combination thereof i.e. a hierarchically porous structure for example . The first product may have a certain degree of crystallinity recognized for example when Bragg reflection peaks are present in the X ray electron and or neutron diffraction pattern of the material. In some cases the first product is or includes a zeolite such as a nanostructured zeolite a mesostructured zeolite or a hierarchically porous zeolite. In some cases the geopolymer resin material or the geopolymer material includes a zeolite component.

Zeolites are typically described as crystalline aluminosilicates having ordered channel and or cage structures and containing micropores which are preferably smaller than about 0.9 nm. The network structure of such zeolites consists of SiOand AlOtetrahedra that share oxygen bridges. Examples are zeolites having a pentasil structure in particular the types assigned by X ray analysis to the ABW AGO AEI AEL AEN AET AFG AFI AFN AFO AFR AFS AFT AFX AFY AHT ANA APC APD AST ATN ATO ATS ATT ATY AWO AWW BEA BIK BOG BPH BRE CAN CAS CFI CGF CGS CHA CHI CLO CON CZP DAC DDR DFO DFT DOH DON EAB EDI EMT EPI ERI ESY EUO FAU FER GIS GME GOO HEU IFR ISY ITE JBW KFI LAU LEV LIO LOS LOY LTA LTL LTN MAZ MEI MEL MEP MER MFI MFS MON MOR MSO MTF MTN MTT MTW MWW NAT NES NON OFF OSI PAR PAU PHI RHO RON RSN RTE RTH RUT SAO SAT SBE SBS SBT SFF SGT SOD STF STI STT TER THO TON TSC VET VFI VNI VSY WIE WEN YUG and ZON structure and to mixed structures of two or more of thereof. Zeolites in which no aluminum is present are known and some zeolites a part of whose Si IV in their silicate lattice is replaced by titanium as Ti IV are also known such as titanium zeolites. Some zeolite materials can further comprise additional elements such as aluminum zirconium tin iron cobalt nickel gallium germanium boron or small amounts of fluorine. A part or all of the titanium of the zeolite can be replaced by vanadium zirconium chromium or niobium or a mixture of two or more thereof. Some examples of zeolites are aluminophosphates whose network structures consist of AlOand POtetrahedra that share oxygen bridges.

In the first product from 104 is optionally treated to yield a second product. Treating the first product may include extracting soaking etching melting subliming dissolving decomposing evaporating heating hydrothermally treating solvothermally treating ionothermally treating combusting calcining etching and the like. Heating the first product can cause dehydration decomposition pyrolysis carbothermal reaction combustion or crystallization of the material. In some cases heating the material can cause at least a portion of the pores when present to be closed and inaccessible. In some cases heating the material can cause at least a portion of the pores when present to collapse. Treating the first product may result in removing replacing of adding a component e.g. precipitating or depositing a component in some of the pores of the first product impregnating the first product with an additive forming a geopolymer composite etc. or altering the crystallinity or porosity to form a second product. Other examples of treating the first product include ion exchange processes metatheses and the like.

Optional treatment can be carried out more than once with the same or different treatment process to alter the second product. In one example the second product may be processed to yield a composite material e.g. by contacting the first product with an additive including a gas a liquid a solid or a combination thereof impregnating the second product with inorganic particulates organic particulates inorganic compounds organic compounds biological materials polymers carbon metals and the like or a combination thereof . Treating the second product can include altering the chemical composition chemical structure microstructural morphology or pore morphology of the second product.

Process shown in is an example of process . In contacting a geopolymer resin material with a liquid produces a dispersion or suspension. In some cases the liquid includes dissolved dispersed or suspended species. The liquid can be water or an organic solvent such as methanol. The liquid can be an aqueous solution e.g an aqueous cetyltrimethylammonium bromide CTAB solution or an organic solution e.g a CTAB solution in ethanol . In removing at least some e.g. at least half or a majority of the liquid yields a particulate first product. In some cases the first product is in the form of a powder. The particles or powder may be in the form of a dispersion or suspension. A majority of the particles may be smaller than 1000 microns smaller than 1 micron or smaller than 100 nm. In optional the first product is treated to yield a second product.

Process shown in is an example of process . In step contacting a geopolymer resin material with a liquid yields a homogeneous mixture having a composition and or pH different from that of the geopolymer resin material. The liquid may include a dissolved dispersed or suspended species. The liquid can be water an acidic solution e.g. phosphoric acid or a basic or alkali solution sodium hydroxide . In some cases the liquid is a pH buffer that contains biological materials. In certain cases the liquid is a viscous liquid such as glycerol or ethylene glycol and may include an additive such as carbon black. In removing at least some e.g. at least half or a majority of the liquid from the homogeneous mixture yields a first product. Removing at least some of the liquid may include pyrolysis or calcination. In an example upon heating in an oxygen limited environment glycerol in a homogeneous mixture with a geopolymer resin material loses a majority of hydrogen carbon and oxygen to become a graphitic material. In another example a mixture of glycerol containing carbon particles is mixed into a geopolymer resin material and the mixture heated to pyrolyze the glycerol. Process may include in which the first product is treated to yield a second product.

Process shown in is an example of process . In contacting a first geopolymer resin material with a liquid changes the composition and or pH of the first geopolymer resin material. The liquid or solvent can be an organic liquid such as ethanol or tetrahydrofuran. In some cases the liquid is immiscible with the first geopolymer resin material or immiscible with the first geopolymer resin material but miscible with water. Contacting the first geopolymer resin material with the liquid may change the viscosity of the first geopolymer resin material. In an example contacting the first geopolymer resin material with a liquid e.g. ethanol extracts water from the first geopolymer resin material and yields a heterogeneous mixture. The geopolymer resin material can be contacted with a liquid including dissolved dispersed or suspended species thereby changing the composition and or pH of the first geopolymer resin material. In some cases contacting the first geopolymer resin material with the liquid causes a change in the ionic strength of the liquid and or the geopolymer resin material or an acceleration or deceleration of the curing of the geopolymer resin material.

In some e.g. a portion half a majority of the liquid is removed to form a second geopolymer resin material. The second geopolymer resin material has a composition and or pH different from that of the first geopolymer resin material. The liquid may be removed by decantation filtration drying freeze drying evaporation dehydrating heating pyrolyzing or calcining. The second geopolymer resin material may be cured in to form a first geopolymer material. The first geopolymer material may be treated in to form a second geopolymer material.

Process shown in is an example of process . In a first material including a geopolymer material is contacted with a fluid. Contacting a first material with a fluid may break up or disintegrate the first material. When the first material is in contact with the fluid the first material may absorb the fluid to some extent through pores cracks or microcracks in the body of the first material. In some cases the absorbed fluid or its meniscus may exert a capillary pressure on pore walls crack walls and or microcrack walls in the body of the first material and thus may lead to the breakup or disintegration of the first material. In some cases the absorbed fluid may weaken pore walls crack walls and or microcrack walls by hydration etching dissolution or the like and thus may lead to the breakup or disintegration of the first material. The extent of the breakup or disintegration may be affected by the temperature the pressure the amount and or the composition of the fluid and or by the shape the size the morphology the composition and or the production condition of the first material. The number morphology and size of the particulates generated by the breakup or disintegration may be affected by the temperature pressure amount and or composition of the fluid and or by the shape size morphology composition and or production condition of the first material. In at least some of the fluid is removed to yield a first product. In optional the first product is treated to yield a second product.

Although described in a particular order the operations described above may be performed in a different order. Additionally one or more of the operations may be omitted or additional operations may be added. Details regarding the processes described in are understood to be described with respect to .

The particulates composites and materials described herein may be responsive to a chemical a biological material an electric field a magnetic field temperature pressure an electromagnetic wave a mechanical force or a combination of thereof. The particulates composites and materials can be used in a variety of ways including but not limited to as adsorbents absorbents nanoreactors nanoglues nanocontainers nanocomposites catalysts catalyst supports oxidizing agents reducing agents filters chromatography media ion exchange materials separation materials magnetic separation materials membranes gas liquid fuel storage materials electrodes sensors electrical materials electronic materials magnetic materials microwave absorbers microwave assisted heating materials bio implants structure reinforcing materials construction materials solar energy collectors supercapacitors solar cell components dielectrics thermal insulation materials sound insulation materials fire retardants paint thickeners matting agent packaging materials refractories additives ink jet coatings porous binders porous fillers ionic conductors bioreactors culture media culture supports bone replacement materials active battery components battery separators thermal composites e.g. porous geopolymers impregnated with a thermal energy storage material a phase change compound a thermochemical energy storage material or a magnetocaloric material toxin removal materials chemical removal materials waste removal materials hazard removal materials chemical decontaminants bioactive decontaminants odor elimination materials oil spill cleanup materials arsenic removal materials heavy metal removal materials nuclear waste removal materials energetic materials evaporative chillers heaters aroma delivery materials flavor delivery materials drug delivery materials sanitizer delivery materials herbicide delivery materials fungicide delivery materials pesticide delivery materials insecticide delivery materials plant nutrient delivery materials fertilizer materials plant growing media green roof materials hydroponics support media potting materials animal nutrient delivery materials human nutrient delivery materials water purification materials soil stabilization materials wetting agents water absorption materials water adsorption materials water collection materials water retention materials humidity control material pet litter absorption materials vapor sorption materials gas sorption materials oil sorption materials oil extraction materials algae oil nanofarming materials selective solid phase extraction materials desiccants proppant materials hemostats and the like. The particulates composites and materials described herein can be also used as a template or a mask to produce porous materials including porous polymers and porous ceramics.

The following examples are provided for illustration. It should be appreciated by those of skill in the art that the techniques disclosed in the following examples are considered to be exemplary. However those of skill in the art should in light of the present disclosure appreciate that many changes can be made in the specific embodiments that are disclosed without departing from the spirit and scope of this disclosure.

Example 1 illustrates an implementation of process in which particles were produced by mixing a geopolymer resin with water and subsequently by removing the water. Example 2 illustrates another implementation of process in which particles were produced by using an aqueous solution including cetyltrimethylammonium bromide CTAB a cationic surfactant. Example 3 is similar to Example 2 but metakaolin PowerPozz was used instead of metakaolinite and the mixture solution was stirred at a different speed with a different type of stirrer. Example 4 illustrates another implementation of process in which a viscous dispersion of particles was produced by using an aqueous solution including cetyltrimethylammonium bromide CTAB a cationic surfactant and subsequently by purifying and concentrating the particle dispersion in water. Example 5 illustrates another implementation of process in which particles were produced by using a HPOaqueous solution. In the particles or powder material are treated to form a new material.

Example 6 illustrates another implementation of process in which a geopolymer resin material which was soft or semi rigid was immersed in water with a gentle shaking it disintegrated into particles dispersed in water. The particles have a faujasite type FAU structure a zeolite . Example 7 is similar to Example 6 but the geopolymer resin material was a solid which was later partially disintegrated when immersed in water. The particles have a sodalite type SOD structure a zeolite .

Example 8 is similar to Example 6 but the particles were produced by immersing a paste like geopolymer resin material in water at room temperature and subsequently by washing the paste multiple times so that the pH of the particle dispersion became close to 7. The resulting particles showed a faujasite type FAU structure with additional nanopores in the particle bodies.

Example 9 illustrates another implementation of process in which a geopolymer resin material in a soft solid form was prepared by mixing a geopolymer resin with canola oil and subsequently by incompletely or partially curing the resin. The solid was easy to break by hand. The geopolymer resin material was immersed in hot water in which it disintegrated into particles over time. The particles showed a faujasite type FAU structure with additional nanopores in the particle bodies. Examples 10 and 11 are similar to Example 9 but the geopolymer resins had different chemical compositions. Example 12 is similar to Examples 9 11 but waste vegetable oil was used instead of canola oil. Example 24 illustrates one implementation of process in which particulates were produced by treating a geopolymer resin with nominal Na Al Si atomic ratios of 3 1 2 in water and subsequently by removing the water. Example 25 is similar to Example 24 but the geopolymer resin includes canola oil as an additional precursor. In Examples 42 and 43 fly ash is used as a source of aluminosilicates.

Example 14 illustrates an implementation of process in which an aluminosilicate geopolymer resin was mixed with a concentrated phosphoric acid to produce a homogenous mixture with a pH of about 7. The mixture was dried in an oven to remove a majority of water to give a monolithic material. Example 15 is similar to Example 14 but a sulfuric acid was used instead of phosphoric acid. Example 16 is similar to Example 14 but acetic acid was used instead of phosphoric acid. Example 17 is similar to Example 14 but included concentrated phosphoric acid solution premixed with TiOnanoparticles. Example 18 illustrates another implementation of process in which a viscous liquid was employed. A viscous carbon glycerol mixture was first prepared by mixing carbon black particles with glycerol. The mixture was then mixed with a geopolymer resin and applied on a glass slide as a thin coating. The coating was pre treated in an oven and finally heated at 500 C. under a flow of argon gas to give an electrically conductive coating. Example 19 illustrates that contacting the geopolymer resin material with a liquid can be carried out multiple times with different liquids. An aluminosilicate geopolymer resin was mixed with a concentrated phosphoric acid to yield a homogenous mixture with a pH of about 7. A buffer solution pH 7 was added to the mixture to yield another homogeneous mixture. Example 20 also illustrates the utilization of multiple liquids. An aluminosilicate geopolymer resin was mixed first with concentrated phosphoric acid to produce a homogenous mixture with a pH of about 7. The homogenous mixture was then mixed with an aqueous solution containing CTAB to eventually yield particles. Example 21 illustrates another implementation of process in which a viscous dispersion of particles was produced by using a phosphoric acid and then an aqueous solution including cetyltrimethylammonium bromide CTAB a cationic surfactant and subsequently purifying and concentrating the particle dispersion.

Example 13 illustrates one implementation of process but the process was carried out multiple times to form a new material. A solution of ferric chloride FeCl.6HO in methanol was mixed into a geopolymer resin while stirring. Most of the methanol evaporated during stirring to give a geopolymer resin material which was a red brown powder paste. Canola oil was mixed into the geopolymer resin material to provide a new geopolymer resin material which was like a paste. The new geopolymer resin material was heated in an oven to remove most of the methanol and some of the water present to yield another new geopolymer resin material which was dry. The geopolymer resin material was further heated at 600 C. under a flow of argon gas to yield a black powder.

Example 22 illustrates an implementation of process . A geopolymer resin was shaken with ethanol in a closed container and left still. After the resin and ethanol were separated by gravity the ethanol supernatant was decanted. After repeating the procedure four more times the resin become more viscous than the original resin. The new resin material was then heated at 110 C. to produce a geopolymer material. Example 23 is similar to Example 22 except that a geopolymer resin containing glycerol was used in place of the geopolymer resin that contained only inorganic components.

Examples 26 to 34 illustrate implementations of process in which the geopolymer resin material can have various compositions and can be cured in various molds under various conditions which affect the size and shape of the resulting geopolymer material particles. Examples 35 to 41 illustrate implementations of process in which the geopolymer resin materials contain potassium ions instead of sodium ions. Among these examples Examples 40 and 41 illustrate implementations of process in which the temperature of the treating fluid affects the morphology of the product.

0.73 g of NaOH was dissolved in 0.95 g of deionized water into which 12.22 g of sodium silicate 10.6 NaO 26.5 SiO was added subsequently. The solution was stirred until it became homogeneous by visual inspection. In the solution 6.10 g of metakaolinite was added and stirred until the solution became visually homogeneous to produce a geopolymer resin. 140 ml of deionized water was poured into the geopolymer resin and stirred for about a minute. The mixture was then homogenized with a homogenizer IKA T 25 digital ULTRA TURRAX at 10000 rpm for about 10 min. Once the stirring was stopped the resulting particles were precipitated by the addition of methanol filtered and dried to give a powder product. The product showed a better dispersibility in water than in chloroform. The product showed a nitrogen sorption Brunauer Emmett Teller BET surface area of about 18.1 m g.

0.73 g of NaOH was dissolved in 0.95 g of water into which 12.22 g of sodium silicate 10.6 NaO 26.5 SiO was added subsequently. The solution was stirred until it became homogeneous by visual inspection. In the solution 6.10 g of metakaolinite was added and stirred until the solution became visually homogeneous to produce a geopolymer resin. In a separate container 0.240 g of cetyltrimethylammonium bromide CH N CH Br CTAB was dissolved in 140 ml of deionized water. The aqueous CTAB solution was poured into the was poured into the geopolymer resin and stirred for about a minute. The mixture was then homogenized with a homogenizer IKA T 25 digital ULTRA TURRAX at 10000 rpm for about 10 min. Once the stirring was stopped the resulting particles were precipitated filtered and dried to give a powder product. The product showed a better dispersibility in chloroform than in water indicating that the particles were hydrophobic to some extent. The CHN analysis showed that the material contained 2.475 wt carbon and 0.132 wt nitrogen. The product showed a nitrogen sorption Brunauer Emmett Teller BET surface area of about 22 m g. After calcined at 750 C. for 10 h the weight loss was 9.3 . The Na Al Si ratios of the calcined product were 1 4.8 6.2 from ICP results. show transmission electron microscopy TEM and scanning electron microscopy SEM images of the product.

0.73 g of NaOH was dissolved in 0.95 g of water into which 12.22 g of sodium silicate 10.6 NaO 26.5 SiO was added subsequently. The solution was stirred until it became homogeneous by visual inspection. In the solution 6.10 g of metakaolin PowerPozz was added and stirred until the solution became visually homogeneous to produce a geopolymer resin. In a separate container 0.240 g of cetyltrimethylammonium bromide CH N CH Br CTAB was dissolved in 140 ml of deionized water. The aqueous CTAB solution was poured into the geopolymer resin and stirred with a mechanical stirrer STIR PAK Model 4554 10 Cole Parmer for about 30 min. Once the stirring was stopped the resulting particles were precipitated filtered and dried to give a powder product. The product showed a better dispersibility in chloroform than in water indicating that the particles were hydrophobic to some extent.

7.3 g of NaOH was dissolved in 9.5 g of water into which 122.2 g of sodium silicate 10.6 NaO 26.5 SiO was added subsequently. The solution was stirred until it became homogeneous by visual inspection. In the solution 61.0 g of metakaolinite was added and stirred until the solution became visually homogeneous to produce a geopolymer resin. In a separate container 2.4 g of cetyltrimethylammonium bromide CH N CH Br CTAB was dissolved in 1400 ml of deionized water. 100 ml of the aqueous CTAB solution was poured into the geopolymer resin and stirred for about a minute. The mixture was then homogenized with a homogenizer IKA T 25 digital ULTRA TURRAX at 10000 rpm for about 10 min. Then the rest of the CTAB solution was poured into the mixture and the mixture was stirred with a mechanical stirrer STIR PAK Model 4554 10 Cole Parmer for about 30 min. After the stirring was stopped the resulting suspension was centrifuged and washed with deionized water more than three times. After a final centrifugation at 2000 rpm for less than 10 min the supernatant was decanted to produce a viscous particle dispersion containing 62 wt water.

25.0 g of NaOH was dissolved in 71.5 g of water. The solution was stirred until it became homogeneous by visual inspection. In the solution 60.0 g of metakaolinite was added and stirred until the solution became visually homogeneous yielding a geopolymer resin. While the solution was chilled in an ice bath 35.5 g of conc. HPO 85 was gradually added. The solution was stirred for about 15 min to give a homogenous mixture. Once the stirring was stopped the resulting particles were precipitated filtered and dried to give a powder product. The product showed a better dispersibility in water than in chloroform indicating that the particles were hydrophilic to some extent.

6.85 g of NaOH was dissolved in 12.32 g of water into which 17.61 g of sodium silicate 10.6 NaO 26.5 SiO was added subsequently. The solution was stirred at 800 rpm with a laboratory mixer IKA RW 60 digital mixer until it became homogeneous by visual inspection. Into the solution 6.17 g of metakaolin MetaMax was added and stirring was continued at 800 rpm for 35 min which yielded a geopolymer resin having approximate nominal Na Al Si atomic ratios of 3 1 2. This resin material was transferred into a tightly closed polypropylene container and was heated at 60 C. in a laboratory oven Yamato DKN400 to provide a geopolymer resin material. Small amounts of the material were withdrawn after 24 48 and 72 h. The resin material samples were soft and could be deformed by hand even after 72 h of heating. They disintegrated into fine particles when placed in water with a gentle shaking show the powder X ray diffraction patterns for the samples withdrawn after 24 and 72 h respectively in which most of the Bragg peaks can be assigned to a faujasite type FAU structure. The particle dispersion produced from the sample resin material withdrawn after 48 h was then heated in a copious amount of water at 90 C. for 24 h. After the heating the water was removed from the dispersed particles by centrifugation and subsequent decantation and drying in a lab oven. Its powder X ray diffraction pattern is shown in . shown for comparison is a simulated pattern of a NaX zeolite with a faujasite type FAU structure.

6.85 g of NaOH was dissolved in 12.32 ml of water into which 17.61 g of sodium silicate 10.6 NaO 26.5 SiO was added subsequently. The solution was stirred at 800 rpm with a laboratory mixer IKA RW 60 digital mixer until it became homogeneous by visual inspection. Into the solution 6.17 g of metakaolin MetaMax was added and stirring was continued at 800 rpm for 35 min which yielded a geopolymer resin having approximate nominal Na Al Si atomic ratios of 3 1 2. This resin material was transferred into an open propylene beaker and was heated at 60 C. for 7 days in a laboratory oven Yamato DKN400 to give a geopolymer resin material which was a homogeneous and hard solid. About 5 g of the resin material was then placed in 100 ml of deionized water and heated at 90 C. for 24 h. Partial disintegration of the resin material into particles was observed during the heating in water. The water was removed first from the particles by decantation. The particles were gently ground further and dried in a lab oven at 110 C. overnight. The final product exhibited pores with a Barret Joyner Halenda BJH cumulative volume pore sizes from 2 to 300 nm of 0.3 cm g and an average pore size of 17 nm. The nitrogen Brunauer Emmett Teller BET surface area was 115 m g. A powder X ray diffraction pattern of the product is shown in in which most of the Bragg peaks can be assigned to a sodalite type SOD structure shown by the stick spectrum.

6.8 g of NaOH was dissolved in a mixture of 12.3 ml of water and 17.6 g sodium silicate solution 59 HO 27 SiOand 14 NaOH . In the solution 8.6 g of metakaolin MetaMax was added and stirred at 800 rpm for 40 min using a laboratory mixer IKA RW 60 digital mixer which yielded a geopolymer resin having approximate nominal Na Al Si atomic ratios of 3 1 2. This liquid was transferred into a tightly closed polypropylene container and was heated at 60 C. for 24 h in a laboratory oven Yamato DKN400 to give a paste like geopolymer resin material. The resin material was placed in a copious amount of deionized water at room temperature and gently ground which produced particles in the water. The particles were repeatedly washed to reduce the pH of the particle dispersion down to about 7. The resulting particles were collected by centrifugation at 6000 rpm for 10 min and dried at 85 C. overnight. These particles exhibited a nitrogen Brunauer Emmett Teller BET surface area of 497 m g of which 279 m g was from micropores. The Barret Joyner Halenda BJH desorption cumulative pore volume of these particles was 0.82 cm g and the micropore volume was 0.13 cm g. Barret Joyner Halenda BJH desorption pore width of 12 nm was observed. show a nitrogen sorption isotherm pore size distribution and scanning electron microscope images of this product respectively. is an X ray diffraction pattern of the product which shows Bragg peaks in its X ray diffraction pattern that can be assigned to a faujasite type FAU structure shown by the stick spectrum.

4.19 g of NaOH was dissolved in 8.64 ml of water into which 1.85 g of sodium silicate 10.6 NaO 26.5 SiO was added subsequently. The solution was stirred at 800 rpm with a laboratory mixer IKA RW 60 digital mixer until it became homogeneous by visual inspection. Into the solution 6.17 g of metakaolin MetaMax was added and stirring was continued at 800 rpm for 35 min which yielded a geopolymer resin having approximate nominal Na Al Si atomic ratios of 2 1 1.15. Into the mixture 9.7 ml of canola oil was added and the stirring was continued at 800 rpm for 10 min which yielded a viscous homogeneous geopolymer resin material. This liquid was poured into a tightly closed polypropylene container and was heated at 60 C. for 2 days in a laboratory oven Yamato DKN400 to give a solid geopolymer resin material which was soft and easy to break up with hand. About 5 g of the solid was then placed in 100 ml of deionized water and heated at 90 C. for 24 h during which the solid disintegrated into particles in water. The water was removed from the particles by decantation and then replaced with fresh deionized water and heated at 90 C. for 24 h which was repeated two times. The water was then decanted from the particles and the particles were rinsed with deionized water for 2 min and dried in a lab oven at 110 C. overnight. The final product exhibited pores with a Barret Joyner Halenda BJH cumulative volume pore sizes from 2 to 300 nm of 0.15 cm g and an average pore size of 8 nm. The micropore volume was 0.10 cm g. The nitrogen Brunauer Emmett Teller BET surface area was 283 m g of which 207 m g was from micropores. A powder X ray diffraction pattern of the product is shown in in which most of the Bragg peaks can be assigned to a faujasite type FAU structure shown in the stick spectrum.

3.99 g of NaOH was dissolved in 8.11 ml of water into which 3.09 g of sodium silicate 10.6 NaO 26.5 SiO was added subsequently. The solution was stirred at 800 rpm with a laboratory mixer IKA RW 60 digital mixer until it became homogeneous by visual inspection. Into the solution 6.17 g of metakaolin MetaMax was added and stirring was continued at 800 rpm for 35 min which yielded a geopolymer resin having approximate nominal Na Al Si atomic ratios of 2 1 1.25. Into the mixture 9.7 ml of canola oil was added and the stirring was continued at 800 rpm for 10 min which yielded a viscous homogeneous geopolymer resin material. This liquid was poured into a tightly closed polypropylene container and was heated at 60 C. for 2 days in a laboratory oven Yamato DKN400 to give a solid geopolymer resin material which was soft and easy to break up with hand. About 5 g of the solid was then placed in 100 ml of deionized water and heated at 90 C. for 24 h during which the solid disintegrated into particles in water. The water was removed from the particles by decantation and then replaced with fresh deionized water and heated at 90 C. for 24 h which was repeated two times. The water was then decanted from the particles and the particles were finally rinsed with deionized water for 2 min and dried in a lab oven at 110 C. overnight. The final product exhibited pores with a Barret Joyner Halenda BJH cumulative volume pore sizes from 2 to 300 nm of 0.17 cm g and an average pore size of 7 nm. The micropore volume was 0.07 cm g. The nitrogen Brunauer Emmett Teller BET surface area was 254 m g of which 144 m g was from micropores. Powder X ray diffraction pattern of the product is shown in in which most of the Bragg peaks can be assigned to a faujasite type FAU structure shown by the stick spectrum.

3.04 g of NaOH was dissolved in 3.35 ml of water into which 7.75 g of sodium silicate 10.6 NaO 26.5 SiO was added subsequently. The solution was stirred at 800 rpm with a laboratory mixer IKA RW 60 digital mixer until it became homogeneous by visual inspection. Into the solution 3.80 g of metakaolin MetaMax was added and stirring was continued at 800 rpm for 35 min which yielded a geopolymer resin having approximate nominal Na Al Si atomic ratios of 3 1 2. Into the mixture 8.0 ml of canola oil was added and the stirring was continued at 800 rpm for 10 min which yielded a viscous homogeneous geopolymer resin material. This liquid was poured into a tightly closed polypropylene container and was heated at 60 C. for 2 days in a laboratory oven Yamato DKN400 to give a solid geopolymer resin material which was soft and easy to break up with hand. About 5 g of the solid was then placed in 100 ml of deionized water and heated at 90 C. for 24 h during which the solid disintegrated into particles in water. The water was removed from the particles by decantation and then replaced with fresh deionized water and heated at 90 C. for 24 h which was repeated two times. The water was then decanted from the particles and the particles were finally rinsed with deionized water for 2 min and dried in a lab oven at 110 C. overnight. The final product exhibited pores with a Barret Joyner Halenda BJH cumulative volume pore sizes from 2 to 300 nm of 0.54 cm g and an average pore size of 11 nm. The micropore volume was 0.13 cm g. The Barret Joyner Halenda BJH pore distribution is shown in . The nitrogen Brunauer Emmett Teller BET surface area was 467 m g of which 289 m g was from micropores. The nitrogen sorption isotherm is shown in . A powder X ray diffraction pattern of the product is shown in in which most of the Bragg peaks can be assigned to a faujasite type FAU structure shown by the stick spectrum. show a scanning electron micrograph SEM and a transmission electron micrograph TEM respectively of the product.

4.93 g of NaOH was dissolved in 5.42 ml of water into which 12.56 g of sodium silicate 10.6 NaO 26.5 SiO was added subsequently. The solution was stirred at 800 rpm with a laboratory mixer IKA RW 60 digital mixer until it became homogeneous by visual inspection. Into the solution 6.15 g of metakaolin MetaMax was added and the stirring was continued at 800 rpm for 35 min which yielded a geopolymer resin having approximate nominal Na Al Si atomic ratios of 3 1 2. Into the mixture 12.96 ml of waste vegetable oil was added and the stirring was continued at 800 rpm for 10 min which yielded a viscous homogeneous geopolymer resin material. This liquid was poured into a tightly closed polypropylene container and was heated at 60 C. for 2 days in a laboratory oven Yamato DKN400 to give a solid geopolymer resin material was soft and easy to break up with hand. About 5 g of the solid was then placed in 100 ml of deionized water and heated at 90 C. for 24 h during which the solid disintegrated into particles in water. The water was removed from the particles by decantation and then replaced with fresh deionized water and heated at 90 C. for 24 h which was repeated two times. The water was then decanted from the particles and the particles were rinsed with deionized water for 2 min and dried in a lab oven at 110 C. overnight. The final product exhibited pores with a Barret Joyner Halenda BJH cumulative volume pore sizes from 2 to 300 nm of 0.33 cm g and an average pore size of 12 nm. The micropore volume was 0.18 cm g. The nitrogen Brunauer Emmett Teller BET surface area was 549 m g of which 392 m g was from micropores. Powder X ray diffraction pattern of the product is shown in in which most of the Bragg peaks can be assigned to a faujasite type FAU structure shown by the stick spectrum.

5.28 g of NaOH was dissolved in 8.1 g of water into which 8.82 g of sodium silicate 10.6 NaO 26.5 SiO was added subsequently. The solution was stirred with a laboratory mixer Stir Pak Laboratory mixer 4554 10 from Cole Parmer Instrument Company until it became homogeneous by visual inspection. In the solution 4.40 g of metakaolinite was added and stirred until the solution became visually homogeneous to produce a geopolymer resin. In a separate container 12.49 g of ferric chloride FeCl.6HO was dissolved in 10 ml of methanol. The FeCl.6HO solution was added dropwise into the geopolymer resin while the resin was stirred. Most of the methanol evaporated during the stirring as deduced from the insignificant increase of the resin material volume. 14 ml of canola oil was added to the resulting a reddish brown paste like geopolymer resin material and this material was stirred for about 10 min and was heated at 60 C. for 24 h in a laboratory oven Yamato DKN400 to give another geopolymer resin material which was reddish brown. For carbothermal reduction of iron 2.0 g of this above reddish brown solid was ground to a fine powder and was heated at 600 C. for 3 h in a tube furnace Thermo Scientific TF55030A 1 under a flow of argon gas to give 1.29 g of a black powder. The black product showed a nitrogen sorption Brunauer Emmett Teller BET surface area of about 28 m g. A portion of the black powder was immersed in a diluted hydrochloric acid and the material generated gas bubbles for longer than 4 h.

2.5 g of NaOH was dissolved in 3.6 g of water. The solution was stirred until it became homogeneous by visual inspection. In the solution 6.0 g of metakaolinite was added and stirred until the solution became visually homogeneous to yield a geopolymer resin. While the resin was chilled in an ice bath 3.6 g of a conc. HPO 85 was gradually added and was stirred for about 5 min to give a homogeneous mixture. The pH of the mixture was about 7. Three different samples of the homogeneous mixture prepared under the same conditions were dried under different conditions. The sample dried at room temperature in a fume hood did not solidify even after 18 h a water loss of less than 5 . The samples dried at 60 and 85 C. solidified with a water loss of 38 and 48 respectively after 18 h. shows the powder X ray diffraction pattern of the product dried at 85 C.

5.0 g of NaOH was dissolved in 7.2 g of water. The solution was stirred until it became homogeneous by visual inspection. In the solution 12.0 g of metakaolinite was added and stirred until the solution became visually homogeneous yield a geopolymer resin. While the resin was chilled in an ice bath a solution of 4 ml of a conc. HSO 95 98 and 16 ml of water was gradually added and was stirred for about 5 min to give a homogeneous mixture. The pH of the mixture was about 7. The sample was dried at room temperature 60 or 85 C. to become solidified.

5.0 g of NaOH was dissolved in 7.2 g of water. The solution was stirred until it became homogeneous by visual inspection. In the solution 12.0 g of metakaolinite was added and stirred until the solution became visually homogeneous to yield a geopolymer resin. While the resin was chilled in an ice bath 3.5 g of glacial acetic acid was gradually added and was stirred for about 5 min to give a homogeneous mixture. The pH of the mixture was about 7. The sample was dried at 60 C. and became solidified.

0.160 g of TiOnanoparticles anatase was dispersed in 8.245 g of a conc. HPO 85 . In a separate container 5.0 g of NaOH was dissolved in 14.4 g of water. The solution was stirred until it became homogeneous by visual inspection. In the solution 12.0 g of metakaolinite was added and stirred until the solution became visually homogeneous to yield a geopolymer resin. To the resin the TiOdispersion was gradually added while stirring to yield a geopolymer resin material. The resin material was divided to three and each portion was dried and solidified under different conditions room temperature 60 and 85 C. . shows the powder X ray diffraction pattern of the product dried at 85 C.

2.0 g of acetylene carbon black was homogeneously mixed into 12.5 g of glycerol. In a separate vessel 0.73 g of NaOH was dissolved in 0.95 g of water into which 12.22 g of sodium silicate 10.6 NaO 26.5 SiO was added subsequently. The solution was stirred until it became homogeneous by visual inspection. 6.10 g of metakaolinite was added into the solution and stirred until the solution became visually homogeneous to yield a geopolymer resin. The resulting geopolymer resin was stirred further for about 20 min. The carbon black and glycerol mixture was added to the geopolymer resin with the weight ratio of 3 1 and the mixture was stirred until they became homogeneous yielding a carbon black glycerol geopolymer resin material. A portion of the resin material was applied on a microscope glass slide by using the doctor blade method. The slide was then heated at 500 C. for 10 h in a tube furnace Thermo Scientific under a flow of argon gas in order to pyrolyze the glycerol. The final black film on the glass slide showed a resistance of about 700 on a Volt Ohm meter.

2.5 g of NaOH was dissolved in 3.6 g of water. The solution was stirred until it became homogeneous by visual inspection. In the solution 6.0 g of metakaolinite was added and stirred until the solution became visually homogeneous to yield a geopolymer resin. While the resin was chilled in an ice bath 3.6 g of conc. HPO 85 was gradually added and was stirred for about 5 min to give a homogeneous mixture. 2 ml of a phosphate buffer solution pH 7 was added to the mixture while stirring. The final homogeneous mixture was divided to three and the three samples were dried under different conditions. The solidification of the mixture took about an hour for the sample dried at room temperature in a fume hood. The samples dried at 60 and 85 C. in closed lab ovens became solidified after 3 h.

5.0 g of NaOH was dissolved in 14.3 g of water. The solution was stirred until it became homogeneous by visual inspection. In the solution 12.0 g of metakaolinite was added and stirred until the solution became visually homogeneous to yield a geopolymer resin. While the resin was chilled in an ice bath 7.1 g of conc. HPO 85 was gradually added and was stirred for about 5 min to give a homogenous mixture. In a separate container 0.482 g of cetyltrimethylammonium bromide CH N CH Br CTAB was dissolved in 200 ml of deionized water. The aqueous CTAB solution was poured into the homogeneous mixture and stirred for about a minute. The mixture solution was then homogenized with a homogenizer IKA T 25 digital ULTRA TURRAX at 10000 rpm for about 10 min. Once the stirring was stopped the resulting particles were precipitated filtered and dried to give a powder product. The product showed a better dispersibility in chloroform than in water indicating that the particles were hydrophobic to some extent. The CHN analysis showed that the material contained 2.46 wt carbon and 0.14 wt nitrogen. The product showed a nitrogen sorption Brunauer Emmett Teller BET surface area of about 22 m g. show transmission electron microscopy TEM and scanning electron microscopy SEM images of the product respectively. The Na Al P ratios of the product were 1.0 11.7 1.0 from ICP results. The amount of Si was not estimated due to the poor solubility of silicates under the employed sample analysis condition.

25.0 g of NaOH was dissolved in 71.5 g of water. The solution was stirred until it became homogeneous by visual inspection. In the solution 60.0 g of metakaolinite was added and stirred until the solution became visually homogeneous yielding a geopolymer resin. While the resin was chilled in an ice bath 35.5 g of conc. HPO 85 was gradually added and was stirred for about 15 min to give a homogenous mixture. In a separate container 2.410 g of cetyltrimethylammonium bromide CH N CH Br CTAB was dissolved in 1000 ml of deionized water. 100 ml of the aqueous CTAB solution was poured into the homogeneous mixture and stirred for about a minute. The mixture solution was then homogenized with a homogenizer IKA T 25 digital ULTRA TURRAX at 10000 rpm for about 10 min. After the homogenization the rest of the CTAB solution was poured into the mixture solution and was stirred with a mechanical stirrer STIR PAK Model 4554 10 Cole Parmer for about 30 min. After the stirring was stopped the suspension was centrifuged and washed with deionized water more than three times. After a final centrifugation at 2000 rpm for less than 10 min the supernatant was decanted to produce a viscous particle dispersion containing 60 wt water.

0.73 g of NaOH was dissolved in 0.95 g of water into which 12.22 g of sodium silicate 10.6 NaO 26.5 SiO was added subsequently. The solution was stirred until it became homogeneous by visual inspection. In the solution 6.10 g of metakaolinite was added and stirred until the solution became visually homogeneous to give a geopolymer resin. The resin was stirred further for about 20 min. 5 ml of the resin was transferred into a centrifuge tube into which 5 ml of ethanol was added. The tube was then closed with a cap and shaken vigorously. After resting for about 1 min the mixture was separated into two layers a geopolymer resin material at the bottom and supernatant ethanol at the top. The supernatant was removed from the resin material by decantation. This ethanol treatment of the resin was repeated four more times. The resulting viscous resin material was heated at 110 C. for 18 h. to produce a geopolymer material. The CHN analysis showed that the material contained 0.21 wt carbon. compares the thermal gravimetric analysis TGA curve of the geopolymer material solid line with that of a geopolymer dashed line produced at the same nominal composition but without the ethanol treatment. The results indicate that the former material contained less water than the later with weight loss due to dehydration.

0.73 g of NaOH was dissolved in 0.95 g of water into which 12.22 g of sodium silicate 10.6 NaO 26.5 SiO was added subsequently. The solution was stirred until it became homogeneous by visual inspection. 6.10 g of metakaolinite was added into the solution and stirred until the solution became visually homogeneous to yield a geopolymer resin. The geopolymer resin was stirred further for about 20 min. The total volume of the resin was 11 ml. 5.0 ml of glycerol was added to 5.0 ml of the geopolymer resin and the mixture was stirred for about 10 min to give a homogeneous geopolymer resin material. 5.0 ml of the resin material was transferred into a centrifuge tube into which 5.0 ml of ethanol was added. The tube was then closed with a cap and shaken vigorously. After resting for about 1 min the mixture was separated into two layers a geopolymer resin material at the bottom and a supernatant ethanol at the top. The supernatant ethanol was removed from the resin material by decantation. About 25 wt of the supernatant was glycerol indicating that the ethanol treatment of the geopolymer resin material extracted some amount of the glycerol from the resin material. This ethanol treatment of the geopolymer resin material was repeated four more times until the supernatants did not contain any noticeable amount of glycerol. The resulting viscous resin material was heated at 110 C. for 18 h to produce a geopolymer material. The CHN analysis showed that the material contained 11.9 wt of carbon. shows the TGA curve of the material which shows no significant weight loss up to about 400 C. where the weight decreases sharply by about 18 . In the FT IR spectrum of the geopolymer material bottom is compared with that of the geopolymer produced without glycerol top . The former exhibits strong absorption peaks around 2900 cm CH stretching and around 1450 cm CHbending which indicates the presence of glycerol moiety in the product material while the latter does not.

6.04 g of NaOH was dissolved in 10.85 ml of water in a sealed polypropylene tube kept underwater in an ice bath. 15.51 g of sodium silicate 10.6 NaO 26.5 SiO was added subsequently into the above solution and stirred underwater in the water bath with a laboratory mixer at 800 rpm until the solution became homogeneous by visual inspection. Into the solution 7.6 g of metakaolin MetaMax was added and stirring was continued at 800 rpm for 40 min which yielded a geopolymer resin having approximate nominal Na Al Si atomic ratios of 3 1 2. This geopolymer resin was poured into a polypropylene tube and sealed airtight and heated at 60 C. for a day in a lab oven to give a paste like geopolymer resin material with a pH value of about 14. About a half of the paste was taken out of the container rinsed with a copious amount of water and subjected to centrifugation at 5000 rpm for 10 min. The resulting clear supernatant solution pH about 14 was decanted to obtain a fine powdery solid. The fine powdery solid was rinsed with more fresh water and was subjected to centrifugation at 5000 rpm for 10 min and the resulting clear supernatant solution was decanted to obtain a fine powdery solid. The rinsing centrifugation and decanting steps were repeated until the supernatant liquid attained near neutral pH. The neutralized fine powdery solid was dried in a lab oven at 110 C. overnight. The final product exhibited mesopores with a Barret Joyner Halenda BJH cumulative volume pore sizes from 2 to 300 nm of 0.71 cm g along with micropores with a t plot micropore volume of 0.13 cm g. BJH desorption average pore width was 12 nm and the BJH desorption pore size distribution is shown in . The nitrogen Brunauer Emmett Teller BET surface area was 497 m g and the nitrogen sorption isotherm is shown in .

The rest of the paste like geopolymer resin material was heated further at 60 C. for a total of 18 days. The paste was then rinsed with a copious amount of 0.1 M HCl in water subjected to centrifugation at 5000 rpm for 10 min and the resulting clear supernatant solution pH 13 was decanted to obtain a fine powdery solid. The fine powdery solid was rinsed with more 0.1 M HCl in water and subjected to centrifugation at 5000 rpm for 10 min. The resulting clear supernatant solution was decanted to obtain a fine powdery solid. The rinsing centrifugation and decanting of supernatant liquid steps were repeated until the supernatant liquid attained neutral pH. The neutralized fine powdery solid was dried in a lab oven at 110 C. overnight. The final product exhibited mesopores with a Barret Joyner Halenda BJH cumulative volume pore sizes from 2 to 300 nm of 0.85 cm g along with micropores with a t plot micropore volume of 0.22 cm g. BJH desorption average pore width was 16 nm and the BJH desorption pore size distribution is shown in . The nitrogen Brunauer Emmett Teller BET surface area was 688 m g and the nitrogen sorption isotherm is shown in .

6.85 g of NaOH was dissolved in 12.32 ml of water in a sealed polypropylene tube kept underwater in a water bath. 17.61 g of sodium silicate 10.6 NaO 26.5 SiO was added subsequently into the above solution and was stirred underwater in the water bath with a laboratory mixer at 800 rpm until the solution was homogeneous by visual inspection. Into the solution 8.62 g of metakaolin MetaMax was added and stirring was continued at 800 rpm for 40 min which yielded a visually homogeneous geopolymer resin having approximate nominal Na Al Si atomic ratios of 3 1 2. Into the mixture 23 ml of canola oil was added having approximate oil water volume ratio of 1 1 and stirring was continued at 800 rpm for 10 min which yielded a viscous homogeneous geopolymer resin material. This resin material was poured into a 250 ml polypropylene open mouth beaker. The polypropylene beaker was then heated at 60 C. for 5 days in a lab oven to give a homogeneous and hard geopolymer resin material. The solid resin material was then broken into about 2 cm by 2 cm by 2 cm pieces and placed in 500 ml of deionized water and heated at 90 C. for 24 h. Disintegration of the solid pieces into a fine powder was observed during the heating in water. The water was then decanted from the particles and the particles were washed with deionized water for 2 min. The particles were dried in a lab oven at 110 C. overnight. A scanning electron micrograph SEM of the product is shown in . The final product exhibited mesopores with a Barret Joyner Halenda BJH cumulative volume pore sizes from 2 to 300 nm of 0.29 cm g along with micropores with a t plot micropore volume of 0.18 cm g. BJH desorption average pore width was 16 nm and the BJH desorption pore size distribution is shown in . The nitrogen Brunauer Emmett Teller BET surface area was 511 m g and the nitrogen sorption isotherm is shown in . shows a powder X ray diffraction pattern of the sample with a simulated diffraction pattern of the zeolite NaX FAU shown by the stick spectrum.

248.87 g of NaOH was dissolved in 258.89 ml of water into which 1172.75 g of sodium silicate 10.6 NaO 26.5 SiO was added subsequently. The solution was stirred at 400 rpm with a laboratory mixer until it became homogeneous by visual inspection. Into the solution 586.16 g of metakaolin MetaMax was added and stirring was continued at 800 rpm for 35 min which yielded a geopolymer resin having approximate nominal Na Al Si atomic ratios of 2 1 2. Into the mixture 950 ml of canola oil was added having approximate oil water volume ratio of 1 1 and stirring was continued at 800 rpm for 10 min which yielded a geopolymer resin material. This resin material was poured into a sheet molds about 10 in by 14 in by 0.5 cm in dimension. The sheet molds were transferred into a tightly closed polypropylene container and were heated at 60 C. for 2 days in a lab oven. After 2 days the resin material had formed into a geopolymer material which was broken into about 2.5 cm by 2.5 cm by 0.5 cm pieces and split into three batches. Each batch was placed in about 3 L of deionized water and heated at 90 C. for 24 h. Partial disintegration of the geopolymer material into about 1 cm by 1 cm by 0.5 cm particulates was observed during the heating in water. The water was removed from the particles by decantation and then replaced with fresh deionized water and heated at 90 C. for 24 h. The water was decanted and replaced a third time with fresh deionized water and heated for an additional 24 h. The water was then decanted from the particles and the particles were washed with deionized water for 2 min. The particles were dried in a lab oven at 110 C. overnight. The final product exhibited pores with a Barret Joyner Halenda BJH cumulative volume pore sizes from 2 to 300 nm of 0.28 cm g and an average pore size of 24 nm. The nitrogen Brunauer Emmett Teller BET surface area was 160 m g.

289.03 g of NaOH was dissolved in 317.78 ml of water into which 736.60 g of sodium silicate 10.6 NaO 26.5 SiO was added subsequently. The solution was stirred at 400 rpm with a laboratory mixer until it became homogeneous by visual inspection. Into the solution 360.81 g of metakaolin MetaMax was added and stirring was continued at 800 rpm for 40 min which yielded a geopolymer resin having approximate nominal Na Al Si atomic ratios of 3 1 2. Into the mixture 760.0 ml of canola oil was added having approximate oil water volume ratio of 1 1 and stirring was continued at 800 rpm for 10 min which yielded a geopolymer resin material. This resin material was poured into a sheet molds about 10 in by 14 in cm by 0.5 cm in dimension. The sheet molds were transferred into a tightly closed polypropylene container and was heated at 60 C. for 4 days in a lab oven to give a homogeneous and semi hard monolithic solid. The solid was then aged in open air for 3 days to result in a geopolymer material. The geopolymer material was then broken into about 2.5 cm by 2.5 cm by 0.5 cm pieces and split into three separate batches. Each batch was placed in about 3 L of deionized water and heated at 90 C. for 24 h. Partial disintegration of the geopolymer material into smaller particulates ranging in size from about 2 cm by 2 cm by 0.25 cm to about 0.3 cm by 0.3 cm by 0.3 cm was observed during the heating in water. The water was removed from the particles by decantation and then replaced with fresh deionized water and heated at 90 C. for 24 h. The water was decanted and replaced a third time with fresh deionized water and heated for an additional 24 h. The water was then decanted from the particles and the particles were washed with deionized water for 2 min. The particles were dried in a lab oven at 110 C. overnight. The final product exhibited pores with a Barret Joyner Halenda BJH cumulative volume pore sizes from 2 to 300 nm of 0.54 cm g and an average pore size of 11 nm. The micropore volume was 0.13 cm g. The nitrogen Brunauer Emmett Teller BET surface area was 467 m g of which 289 m g was from micropores. shows a powder X ray diffraction pattern of the sample with a simulated diffraction pattern of the zeolite NaX FAU shown by the stick spectrum.

2.62 g of NaOH was dissolved in 6.15 ml of water into which 12.34 g of sodium silicate 10.6 NaO 26.5 SiO was added subsequently. The solution was stirred at 400 rpm with a laboratory mixer until it became homogeneous by visual inspection. Into the solution 6.17 g of metakaolinite Alfa Aesar was added and stirring was continued at 800 rpm for 40 min which yielded a geopolymer resin having approximate nominal Na Al Si atomic ratios of 2 1 2. Into the mixture 13.4 ml of canola oil was added having approximate oil water volume ratio of 1 1 and stirring was continued at 800 rpm for 10 min which yielded a geopolymer resin material. This resin material was poured into a round mold. The mold was transferred into a tightly closed polypropylene container and was heated at 60 C. for 2 days in a lab oven to give a monolithic geopolymer material in the shape of a disk with a diameter around 7.6 cm and a thickness of around 1 cm. The geopolymer material was then broken into about 1 cm by 1 cm by 1 cm pieces and placed in 100 ml of deionized water and heated at 90 C. for 24 h. Partial disintegration of the geopolymer material into smaller particulates about 1 cm by 1 cm by 0.25 cm was observed during the heating in water. The water was removed from the particles by decantation and then replaced with fresh deionized water and heated at 90 C. for 24 h. The water was decanted and replaced a third time with fresh deionized water and heated for an additional 24 h. The water was then decanted from the particles and the particles were washed with deionized water for 2 min. The particles were dried in a lab oven at 110 C. overnight.

2.62 g of NaOH was dissolved in 6.15 ml of water into which 12.34 g of sodium silicate 10.6 NaO 26.5 SiO was added subsequently. The solution was stirred at 400 rpm with a laboratory mixer until it became homogeneous by visual inspection. Into the solution 6.17 g of metakaolin PowerPozz was added and stirring was continued at 800 rpm for 40 min which yielded a geopolymer resin having approximate nominal Na Al Si atomic ratios of 2 1 2. Into the mixture 13.4 ml of canola oil was added having approximate oil water volume ratio of 1 1 and stirring was continued at 800 rpm for 10 min which yielded a geopolymer resin material. This resin material was poured into a round mold. The mold was transferred into a tightly closed polypropylene container and was heated at 60 C. for 2 days in a lab oven to give a monolithic geopolymer material in the shape of a disk with a diameter around 7.6 cm and a thickness of around 1 cm. The geopolymer material was then broken into about 1 cm by 1 cm by 1 cm pieces and placed in 100 ml of deionized water and heated at 90 C. for 24 h. Partial disintegration of the geopolymer material into smaller particulates ranging in size from about 1 cm by 1 cm by 0.2 cm to 0.5 cm by 0.5 cm by 0.05 cm was observed during the heating in water. The water was removed from the particles by decantation and then replaced with fresh deionized water and heated at 90 C. for 24 h. The water was decanted and replaced a third time with fresh deionized water and heated for an additional 24 h. The water was then decanted from the particles and the particles were washed with deionized water for 2 min. The particles were dried in a lab oven at 110 C. overnight.

3.04 g of NaOH was dissolved in 4.44 ml of water into which 7.75 g of sodium silicate 10.6 NaO 26.5 SiO was added subsequently. The solution was stirred at 400 rpm with a laboratory mixer until it became homogeneous by visual inspection. Into the solution 3.80 g of metakaolin MetaMax was added and stirring was continued at 800 rpm for 30 min which yielded a geopolymer resin having approximate nominal Na Al Si atomic ratios of 3 1 2. Into the mixture 10.0 ml of canola oil was added having an approximate oil water volume ratio of 1 1 and stirring was continued at 800 rpm for 10 min which yielded a geopolymer resin material. This resin material was poured into a round mold. The mold was transferred into a tightly closed polypropylene container and was heated at 60 C. for 2 days in a lab oven to give a monolithic geopolymer material in the shape of a disk with a diameter around 7.6 cm and a thickness of around 0.5 cm. The geopolymer material was then broken into about 2 cm by 2 cm by 0.5 cm pieces and placed in 100 ml of deionized water and heated at 90 C. for 24 h. Partial disintegration of the geopolymer material into smaller particulates ranging in size from about 0.2 cm by 0.2 cm by 0.05 cm to 1 cm by 1 cm by 0.2 cm was observed during the heating in water. The water was removed from the particles by decantation and then replaced with fresh deionized water and heated at 90 C. for 24 h. The water was decanted and replaced a third time with fresh deionized water and heated for an additional 24 h. The water was then decanted from the particles and the particles were washed with deionized water for 2 min. The particles were dried in a lab oven at 110 C. overnight. The final product exhibited pores with a Barret Joyner Halenda BJH cumulative volume pore sizes from 2 to 300 nm of 0.19 cm g and an average pore size of 18 nm. The micropore volume was 0.05 cm g. The nitrogen Brunauer Emmett Teller BET surface area was 159 m g of which 104.2 m g was from micropores.

4.1 g of NaOH was dissolved in 6.55 ml of water. The solution was stirred at 400 rpm with a laboratory mixer until it became homogeneous by visual inspection. Into the solution 3.80 g of metakaolin MetaMax was added and stirring was continued at 800 rpm for 40 min which yielded a geopolymer resin having approximate nominal Na Al Si atomic ratios of 3 1 1. Into the mixture 6.6 ml of canola oil was added having approximate oil water volume ratio of 1 1 and stirring was continued at 800 rpm for 10 min which yielded a geopolymer resin material. This resin material was poured into a round mold. The mold was transferred into a tightly closed polypropylene container and was heated at 60 C. for 2 days in a lab oven to give a monolithic geopolymer material in the shape of a disk with a diameter around 7.6 cm and a thickness of around 0.5 cm. The geopolymer material was then aged in open air for 1 day. The solid was then broken into about 1 cm by 1 cm by 1 cm pieces and placed in 100 ml of deionized water and heated at 90 C. for 24 h. Partial disintegration of the geopolymer material into smaller particulates with the majority becoming a fine powder but some large sheet particulates about 1 cm by 0.5 cm by 0.05 cm was observed during the heating in water. The water was removed from the particles by decantation and then replaced with fresh deionized water and heated at 90 C. for 24 h. The water was decanted and replaced a third time with fresh deionized water and heated for an additional 24 h. The water was then decanted from the particles and the particles were washed with deionized water for 2 min. The particles were dried in a lab oven at 110 C. overnight. The final product exhibited pores with a Barret Joyner Halenda BJH cumulative volume pore sizes from 2 to 300 nm of 0.06 cm g and an average pore size of 11 nm. The nitrogen Brunauer Emmett Teller BET surface area was 16 m g.

3.95 g of NaOH was dissolved in 8.12 ml of water into which 3.09 g of sodium silicate 10.6 NaO 26.5 SiO was added subsequently. The solution was stirred at 400 rpm with a laboratory mixer until it became homogeneous by visual inspection. Into the solution 6.17 g of metakaolin MetaMax was added and stirring was continued at 800 rpm for 40 min which yielded a geopolymer resin having approximate nominal Na Al Si atomic ratios of 2 1 1.25. Into the mixture 9.9 ml of canola oil was added having approximate oil water volume ratio of 1 1 and stirring was continued at 800 rpm for 10 min which yielded a geopolymer resin material. This resin material was poured into a cube mold. The mold was transferred into a tightly closed polypropylene container and was heated at 60 C. for 2 days in a lab oven to give monolithic geopolymer materials in the shape of 3 cm by 3 cm by 3 cm cubes. The solid cubes were then broken into about 1 cm by 1 cm by 1 cm pieces and cured in open air at 60 C. for 2 days. The geopolymer material pieces were then placed in 100 ml of deionized water and heated at 90 C. for 24 h. Partial disintegration of the geopolymer material into smaller particulates ranging in size from about 0.25 by 0.25 by 0.05 cm to 1 cm by 1 cm by 0.25 cm was observed during the heating in water. The water was removed from the particles by decantation and then replaced with fresh deionized water and heated at 90 C. for 24 h. The water was decanted and replaced a third time with fresh deionized water and heated for an additional 24 h. The water was then decanted from the particles and the particles were washed with deionized water for 2 min. The particles were dried in a lab oven at 110 C. overnight. The final product exhibited pores with a Barret Joyner Halenda BJH cumulative volume pore sizes from 2 to 300 nm of 0.17 cm g and an average pore size of 7 nm. The nitrogen Brunauer Emmett Teller BET surface area was 254 m g.

3.60 g of NaOH was dissolved in 6.88 ml of water into which 6.17 g of sodium silicate 10.6 NaO 26.5 SiO was added subsequently. The solution was stirred at 400 rpm with a laboratory mixer until it became homogeneous by visual inspection. Into the solution 6.17 g of metakaolin MetaMax was added and stirring was continued at 800 rpm for 40 min which yielded a geopolymer resin having approximate nominal Na Al Si atomic ratios of 2 1 1.5. Into the mixture 10.5 ml of canola oil was added having approximate oil water volume ratio of 1 1 and stirring was continued at 800 rpm for 10 min which yielded a geopolymer resin material. This resin material was poured into a cube mold. The mold was transferred into a tightly closed polypropylene container and was heated at 60 C. for 2 days in a lab oven to give a monolithic geopolymer material in the shape of a 3 cm by 3 cm by 3 cm cube. The solid cubes were then broken into about 1 cm by 1 cm by 1 cm pieces and cured in open air at 60 C. for 2 days. The geopolymer material pieces were then placed in 100 ml of deionized water and heated at 90 C. for 24 h. Partial disintegration of the geopolymer material into smaller particulates ranging in size from about 0.2 by 0.2 by 0.1 cm to 1 cm by 0.5 cm by 0.2 cm was observed during the heating in water. The water was removed from the particles by decantation and then replaced with fresh deionized water and heated at 90 C. for 24 h. The water was decanted and replaced a third time with fresh deionized water and heated for an additional 24 h. The water was then decanted from the particles and the particles were washed with deionized water for 2 min. The particles were dried in a lab oven at 110 C. overnight. The final product exhibited pores with a Barret Joyner Halenda BJH cumulative volume pore sizes from 2 to 300 nm of 0.1 cm g and an average pore size of 17 nm. The nitrogen Brunauer Emmett Teller BET surface area was 18 m g.

4.19 g of NaOH was dissolved in 8.64 ml of water into which 1.85 g of sodium silicate 10.6 NaO 26.5 SiO was added subsequently. The solution was stirred at 400 rpm with a laboratory mixer until it became homogeneous by visual inspection. Into the solution 6.17 g of metakaolin MetaMax was added and stirring was continued at 800 rpm for 40 min which yielded a geopolymer resin having approximate nominal Na Al Si atomic ratios of 2 1 1.25. Into the mixture 9.7 ml of canola oil was added having approximate oil water volume ratio of 1 1 and stirring was continued at 800 rpm for 10 min which yielded a geopolymer resin material. This resin material was poured into a round mold. The mold was transferred into a tightly closed polypropylene container and was heated at 60 C. for 2 days in a lab oven to give a monolithic geopolymer material in the shape of a disk with a diameter around 7.6 cm and a thickness of around 0.5 cm. The geopolymer material was then broken into about quarters and the pieces placed in 100 ml of deionized water and heated at 90 C. for 24 h. Partial disintegration of the geopolymer material into smaller particulates ranging in size from about 0.1 by 0.1 by 0.05 cm to 1.5 cm by 1.5 cm by 0.25 cm was observed during the heating in water. The water was removed from the particles by decantation and then replaced with fresh deionized water and heated at 90 C. for 24 h. The water was decanted and replaced a third time with fresh deionized water and heated for an additional 24 h. The water was then decanted from the particles and the particles were washed with deionized water for 2 min. The particles were dried in a lab oven at 110 C. overnight. The final product exhibited pores with a Barret Joyner Halenda BJH cumulative volume pore sizes from 2 to 300 nm of 0.15 cm g and an average pore size of 8 nm. The nitrogen Brunauer Emmett Teller BET surface area was 283 m g.

17.3 g of KOH was dissolved in 30 ml of water into which 6.2 g of fumed silica was added subsequently. The solution was then stirred until it became homogeneous by visual observation. In the solution 11.4 g of metakaolinite was added and stirred at 800 rpm for 40 min using a laboratory mixer to get a visually homogeneous geopolymer resin. The resin had a viscosity similar to honey. 30 ml of canola oil was then added into the geopolymer resin and stirred at 800 rpm for further 10 min to obtain a visually homogeneous geopolymer resin material. The resin material was poured into silicone rubber molds having 1 inch cube wells and was heated in a lab oven at 60 C. for 72 h which resulted in monolithic geopolymer materials in a cube shape. The geopolymer material was soaked in hot water 90 C. for 24 h during which the original cubes disintegrated. The particles in the liquid were then dried in a lab oven at 120 C. These particles exhibited nitrogen Brunauer Emmett Teller BET surface area of about 133 m g Barret Joyner Halenda BJH desorption cumulative pore volume of about 0.62 cm g and a BJH desorption pore width of 18 nm.

15.7 g of KOH was dissolved in 30 ml of water into which 6.7 g of fumed silica was added subsequently. The solution was then stirred until it became homogeneous by visual observation. In the solution 12.4 g of metakaolinite was added and stirred at 800 rpm for 40 min using a laboratory mixer to get a visually homogeneous geopolymer resin. The resin had a viscosity similar to honey. 30 ml of canola oil was then added into the geopolymer resin and stirred at 800 rpm for further 10 min to obtain a geopolymer resin material. The resin material was poured into silicone rubber molds having 1 inch cube wells and was heated in a lab oven at 60 C. for 72 h which resulted in geopolymer materials in a cube shape. The geopolymer material was soaked in hot water 90 C. for 24 h during which the original cubes disintegrated. The particles in the liquid were then dried in a lab oven at 120 C. These particles exhibited nitrogen Brunauer Emmett Teller BET surface area of about 130 m g Barret Joyner Halenda BJH desorption cumulative pore volume of about 0.83 cm g and a BJH desorption pore width of 25 nm.

17.3 g of KOH was dissolved in 30 ml of water into which 6.2 g of fumed silica was added subsequently. The solution was then stirred until it became homogeneous by visual observation. In the solution 11.4 g of metakaolin MetaMax was added and stirred at 800 rpm for 40 min using a laboratory mixer to get a visually homogeneous geopolymer resin. The resin had a viscosity similar to honey. 30 ml of canola oil was then added into the geopolymer resin and stirred at 800 rpm for further 10 min to obtain a geopolymer resin material. The resin material was poured into silicone rubber molds having 1 inch cube wells and was heated in a lab oven at 60 C. for 72 h which resulted in geopolymer materials in a cube shape. The geopolymer material was soaked in hot water 90 C. for 24 h during which the original cubes disintegrated. The particles in the liquid were then dried in a lab oven at 120 C. These particles exhibited nitrogen Brunauer Emmett Teller BET surface area of about 130 m g Barret Joyner Halenda BJH desorption cumulative pore volume of about 0.72 cm g and a BJH desorption pore width of 22 nm.

15.7 g of KOH was dissolved in 30 ml of water into which 6.7 g of fumed silica was added subsequently. The solution was then stirred until it became homogeneous by visual observation. In the solution 12.4 g of metakaolin MetaMax was added and stirred at 800 rpm for 40 min using a laboratory mixer to get a visually homogeneous geopolymer resin. The resin had a viscosity similar to honey. 30 ml of canola oil was then added into the geopolymer resin and stirred at 800 rpm for further 10 min to obtain a geopolymer resin material. The resin material was poured into silicone rubber molds having 1 inch cube wells and was heated in a lab oven at 60 C. for 72 h which resulted in geopolymer materials in a cube shape. The geopolymer material was soaked in hot water 90 C. for 24 h during which the original cubes disintegrated. The particles in the liquid were then dried in a lab oven at 120 C. These particles exhibited nitrogen Brunauer Emmett Teller BET surface area of about 124 m g Barret Joyner Halenda BJH desorption cumulative pore volume of about 0.76 cm g and a BJH desorption pore width of 25 nm.

11.5 g of KOH was dissolved in a mixture of 13.7 ml of water and 19.3 g of KASIL 6 from PQ Corporation 12.58 KO 26.62 SiO 60.80 water . The solution was then stirred until it became homogeneous by visual observation. In the solution 10.0 g of metakaolin MetaMax was added and stirred at 800 rpm for 40 min using a laboratory mixer to get a visually homogeneous geopolymer resin. The resin had a viscosity similar to honey. 25 ml of canola oil was added into the geopolymer resin and stirred at 800 rpm for an additional 10 min to obtain a geopolymer resin material. The resin material was poured into silicone molds having 1 inch cube wells and was heated in a lab oven at 60 C. for 72 h which yielded geopolymer materials in a cube shape. The geopolymer material was soaked in hot water 90 C. for 24 h during which the original cubes disintegrated into small particles. The resulting particles were then dried in a lab oven at 120 C. A scanning electron micrograph SEM of the product is shown in . These particles exhibited nitrogen Brunauer Emmett Teller BET surface area of about 99 m g Barret Joyner Halenda BJH desorption cumulative pore volume of about 0.63 cm g and a BJH desorption pore width of 26 nm. and show the BJH pore distribution and the nitrogen sorption isotherm of the product respectively.

12.0 g of KOH was dissolved in a mixture of 15.3 ml of water and 25.2 g of KASIL 6 from PQ Corporation 12.58 KO 26.62 SiO 60.80 water . The solution was then stirred until it became homogeneous by visual observation. In the solution 12.3 g of metakaolin MetaMax was added and stirred at 800 rpm for 40 min using a laboratory mixer to get a visually homogeneous geopolymer resin. The resin had a viscosity similar to honey. 30 ml of canola oil was added into the geopolymer resin and stirred at 800 rpm for further 10 min to obtain a geopolymer resin material. The resin material was poured into silicone molds having 1 inch cube wells and was heated in a lab oven at 60 C. for 72 h which yielded geopolymer materials in a cube shape. The geopolymer material was soaked in water 23 C. for 24 h during which the original cubes disintegrated into fine sheet like particles. The water was then decanted from the particles and the particles were washed with deionized water for 2 min. The resulting particles were then dried in a lab oven at 120 C. These particles exhibited nitrogen Brunauer Emmett Teller BET surface area of about 93 m g Barret Joyner Halenda BJH desorption cumulative pore volume of about 0.76 cm g and a BJH desorption average pore width pore sizes from 2 to 300 nm of 40 nm. and show the BJH pore distribution and the nitrogen sorption isotherm of the product respectively.

12.0 g of KOH was dissolved in a mixture of 15.3 ml of water and 25.2 g of KASIL 6 from PQ Corporation 12.58 KO 26.62 SiO 60.80 water . The solution was then stirred until it became homogeneous by visual observation. In the solution 12.3 g of metakaolin MetaMax was added and stirred at 800 rpm for 40 min using a laboratory mixer to get a visually homogeneous geopolymer resin. The resin had a viscosity similar to honey. 30 ml of canola oil was added into the geopolymer resin and stirred at 800 rpm for further 10 min to obtain a geopolymer resin material. The resin material was poured into silicone molds having 1 inch cube wells and was heated in a lab oven at 60 C. for 72 h which yielded geopolymer materials in a cube shape. The geopolymer material was soaked in hot water 90 C. for 24 h during which the original cubes disintegrated into particulates with irregular shape. The resulting particles were then dried in a lab oven at 120 C. These particles exhibited nitrogen Brunauer Emmett Teller BET surface area of about 84 m g Barret Joyner Halenda BJH desorption cumulative pore volume of about 0.75 cm g and a BJH desorption average pore width pore sizes from 2 to 300 nm of 31 nm. and show the BJH pore distribution and the nitrogen sorption isotherm of the product respectively.

11.26 g of NaOH was dissolved in 28.25 ml of water in a sealed polypropylene tube kept underwater in a water bath. Into the solution 20.0 g of Cholla fly ash Salt River Materials Group was added and the mixture was stirred at 800 rpm for 40 min which yielded a geopolymer resin having approximate nominal Na Al Si atomic ratios of 3 1 2.18. The geopolymer resin was poured into a 50 ml polypropylene tube and was sealed air tight before placing it in an oven in order to heat the sample at 60 C. for 72 h. The resulting geopolymer resin material was rinsed with copious amount of 0.1 M HCl in water was subjected to centrifugation at 5000 rpm for 10 min and the resulting clear supernatant solution pH 13 was decanted to obtain a fine powdery solid. The fine powdery solid was rinsed with more 0.1 M HCl in water and was subjected to centrifugation at 5000 rpm for 10 min and the resulting clear supernatant solution was decanted to obtain a fine powdery solid. The rinsing centrifugation and decanting of supernatant liquid steps were repeated until the supernatant liquid attained neutral pH. The neutralized fine powdery solid was dried in a lab oven at 110 C. overnight.

11.26 g of NaOH was dissolved in 28.25 ml of water in a sealed polypropylene tube kept under water bath. Into the solution 20.0 g of Cholla fly ash Salt River Materials Group was added and the mixture was stirred at 800 rpm for 40 min which yielded a geopolymer resin having approximate nominal Na Al Si atomic ratios of 3 1 2.18. Into the mixture 23 ml of canola oil was added having approximate oil water volume ratio of 1 1 and stirring was continued at 800 rpm for 10 min which yielded a geopolymer resin material. The resin material was poured into a 50 ml polypropylene tube and was sealed air tight before placing it in an oven in order to heat the sample at 60 C. for 72 h. The resulting resin material was placed in 500 ml of hot water 90 C. and heated at 90 C. for 24 h. The water was then decanted from the particles and the particles were washed with fresh hot water for 2 min. The particles were dried in a lab oven at 110 C. overnight.

Although the above description and the attached claims disclose a number of embodiments other alternative aspects of the invention are disclosed in the following further embodiments.

Embodiment 2.The method of embodiment 00124 wherein the first geopolymer resin material comprises silicates aluminates aluminosilicates organo silicates organo aluminosilicates phosphates silico phosphates silico aluminophosphates or a combination thereof.

Embodiment 3. The method of embodiment 00124 or 00125 further comprising forming the first geopolymer resin material by combining one or more inorganic materials selected from the group consisting of fumed silica rice husk ash silica fume silicates aluminates aluminosilicates organosilanes clays minerals metakaolin calcined clays activated clays fly ash slag pozzolan incinerated utility waste glass powder and red mud with an alkaline or basic solution.

Embodiment 4. The method of any one of embodiments 1 3 wherein the first geopolymer resin material is an acidic or basic solution comprising dissolved or partially dissolved clay material activated clay material or calcined clay material.

Embodiment 5. The method of any one of embodiments 1 4 wherein the first geopolymer resin material comprises an alkali or base activated metakaolin or metakaolinite.

Embodiment 6. The method of any one of embodiments 1 5 wherein the first geopolymer resin material comprises an alkali solution of aluminosilicates having a water content no larger than 60 wt or 70 wt .

Embodiment 7. The method of any one of embodiments 1 6 wherein the first geopolymer resin material comprises an alkali solution of aluminosilicates with the atomic ratio A Al higher than 1 where A is an alkali metal or any combination of alkali metals having a water content no larger than 60 wt or 70 wt .

Embodiment 8. The method of any one of embodiments 1 7 wherein the first geopolymer resin material comprises one or more oxides or hydroxides of phosphorous silicon alkali metals alkaline earth metals or hydrates thereof.

Embodiment 9. The method of any one of embodiments 1 8 wherein the first geopolymer resin material comprises an organosilane phosphoric acid a phosphate a hydrophosphate an organophosphine oxide phosphates silico phosphates silico aluminophosphates or a combination thereof.

Embodiment 10. The method of any one of embodiments 1 9 wherein the first geopolymer resin material comprises one or more additional components independently selected from the group consisting of molecules monomers oligomers polymers ions salts biomaterials structure directing agents pore templating agents surfactants clusters nanoparticles particles fibers fillers or a combination of thereof.

Embodiment 11. The method of any one of claims wherein the first geopolymer resin material comprises one or more additional components independently selected from the group consisting of vegetable oil plant oil animal oil waste vegetable oil waste animal oil fat biodiesel fatty acid lipid ester carboxylic acid petroleum based oil or a combination of thereof.

Embodiment 12. The method of any one of embodiments 1 11 wherein the first geopolymer resin material is incompletely cured or partially cured and or aged.

Embodiment 13. The method of any one of embodiments 1 12 wherein the first geopolymer resin material is in a liquid or semi liquid state and is more viscous than water.

Embodiment 14. The method of any one of embodiments 1 13 wherein the first geopolymer resin material is soft or semi rigid.

Embodiment 15. The method of any one of embodiments 1 14 wherein the first geopolymer resin material is a solid.

Embodiment 16. The method of any one of embodiments 1 15 wherein the liquid and the first geopolymer resin material are immiscible.

Embodiment 18. The method of any one of embodiments 1 17 wherein the liquid comprises an organic solvent or a mixture of an organic solvent with water.

Embodiment 19. The method of any one of embodiments 1 18 wherein the liquid is an acidic solution a basic solution or a pH buffer.

Embodiment 20. The method of any one of embodiments 1 19 wherein the liquid is a pH buffer comprising biological materials.

Embodiment 21. The method of any one of embodiments 1 20 wherein the liquid comprises a solvent and dissolved dispersed coagulated flocculated or suspended species selected from the group consisting of molecules metal precursors monomers oligomers polymers ions salts biomaterials structure directing agents pore templating agents surfactants clusters nanoparticles particles fibers fillers or a combination of thereof.

Embodiment 24. The method of any one of embodiments 1 23 wherein contacting the first geopolymer resin material with the liquid yields a particle dispersion or suspension.

Embodiment 25. The method of any one of embodiments 1 24 wherein contacting the first geopolymer resin material with the liquid yields a homogeneous or heterogeneous mixture.

Embodiment 26. The method of any one of embodiments 1 25 wherein contacting the first geopolymer resin material with the liquid alters the composition and or pH of the first geopolymer resin material.

Embodiment 27. The method of any one of embodiments 1 26 wherein contacting the first geopolymer resin material with the liquid is carried out under a controlled temperature atmosphere pressure moisture level or a combination thereof.

Embodiment 28. The method of any one of embodiments 1 27 wherein contacting the first geopolymer resin material with the liquid is carried out at an elevated temperature or a low temperature.

Embodiment 29. The method of any one of embodiments 1 28 wherein contacting the first geopolymer resin material with the liquid is carried out by condensation of the liquid onto and or into the first geopolymer resin material.

Embodiment 30. The method of any one of embodiments 1 29 wherein contacting the first geopolymer resin material with the liquid comprises mixing blending shaking shearing homogenizing agitating stirring sonicating or vibrating the first geopolymer resin material with the liquid.

Embodiment 31. The method of any one of embodiments 1 30 wherein contacting the first geopolymer resin material with the liquid comprises crushing pounding grinding pulverizing milling crumbling smashing mashing pressing or triturating the first geopolymer resin material in the liquid.

Embodiment 32. The method of any one of embodiments 1 31 wherein contacting the first geopolymer resin material with the liquid comprises soaking the first geopolymer resin material in the liquid or rinsing the first geopolymer resin material with the liquid.

Embodiment 33. The method of any one of embodiments 1 32 wherein contacting the first geopolymer resin material with the liquid causes the first geopolymer resin material to disintegrate to form particles in the liquid.

Embodiment 34. The method of any one of embodiments 1 33 wherein contacting the first geopolymer resin material with the liquid changes a composition of the liquid.

Embodiment 35. The method of any one of embodiments 1 34 wherein contacting the first geopolymer resin material with the liquid transfers one or more components in the liquid to the first geopolymer resin material.

Embodiment 36. The method of any one of embodiments 1 35 wherein contacting the first geopolymer resin material with the liquid transfers one or more components of the first geopolymer resin material to the liquid.

Embodiment 37. The method of any one of embodiments 1 36 wherein the first geopolymer resin material comprises water and contacting the first geopolymer resin material with the liquid transfers at least some of the water in the first geopolymer resin material to the liquid.

Embodiment 38. The method of any one of embodiments 1 37 wherein contacting the first geopolymer resin material with the liquid causes one or more components of the liquid to react with one or more components of the first geopolymer resin material.

Embodiment 39. The method of any one of embodiments 1 38 wherein contacting the first geopolymer resin material with the liquid alters a viscosity of the first geopolymer resin material.

Embodiment 40. The method of any one of embodiments 1 39 wherein contacting the first geopolymer resin material with the liquid alters the ionic strength of the liquid and or the first geopolymer resin material.

Embodiment 41. The method of any one of embodiments 1 40 further comprising curing or partially curing the first geopolymer resin material wherein contacting the first geopolymer resin material with the liquid accelerates or decelerates curing of the first geopolymer resin material.

Embodiment 42. The method of any one of embodiments 1 41 wherein the material comprises a multiplicity of particles.

Embodiment 44. The method of any one of embodiments 1 43 wherein the material is a dispersion or suspension comprising a multiplicity of particles.

Embodiment 45. The method of any one of embodiments 42 44 wherein a majority of the particles have a dimension less than 1 m or less than 1000 m.

Embodiment 46. The method of any one of embodiments 42 45 wherein the composition of the particles differs from the composition of the geopolymer resin material.

Embodiment 47. The method of any one of embodiments 42 46 wherein liquid comprises a surfactant and the surfactant is coupled to the surface of the particles.

Embodiment 48. The method of any one of embodiments 1 41 wherein the material is a monolithic material.

Embodiment 49. The method of embodiment 00171 wherein the monolithic material is in the form of blocks plates films thin films coatings wires spheres beads pellets rods or a combination thereof.

Embodiment 50. The method of embodiment 00171 or 00172 wherein the monolithic material comprises biological material.

Embodiment 51. The method of any one of embodiments 1 41 wherein the material is a second geopolymer resin material.

Embodiment 52. The method of embodiment 00174 wherein the composition and or pH of the second geopolymer resin material differs from that of the first geopolymer resin material.

Embodiment 53. The method of embodiment 00174 or 00175 further comprising solidifying the second geopolymer resin material to form a solid.

Embodiment 54. The method of embodiment 53 wherein solidifying comprises curing or partially curing at ambient temperature or heating.

Embodiment 55. The method of embodiment 53 or 54 wherein solidifying comprises heating under a controlled humidity.

Embodiment 56. The method of any one of embodiments 53 55 wherein solidifying comprises stirring shaking shearing agitating sonicating or vibrating.

Embodiment 57. The method of any one of embodiments 53 56 wherein solidifying comprises spinning spreading screeding spraying dispensing injecting foaming shaping molding ribboning extruding or pultruding.

Embodiment 58. The method of any one of embodiments 53 57 wherein the solid is in a form of monoliths plates films thin films coatings wires spheres beads pellets rods or a combination thereof.

Embodiment 59. The method of any one of embodiments 53 58 wherein the solid is a composite comprising organic material polymer material inorganic material biological material or a combination thereof.

Embodiment 60. The method of any one of embodiments 1 59 wherein removing at least some of the liquid comprises removing a majority of the liquid.

Embodiment 61. The method of any one of embodiments 1 60 wherein removing at least some of the liquid comprises precipitation decantation filtration or centrifugation.

Embodiment 62. The method of any one of embodiments 1 61 wherein removing at least some of the liquid comprises flocculation agglomeration aggregation coagulation or coalescence of the particles by adding a clarifying agent flocculant or coagulant.

Embodiment 63. The method of any one of embodiments 1 62 wherein removing at least some of the liquid comprises drying spray drying freeze drying evaporation or dehydrating.

Embodiment 64. The method of any one of embodiments 1 63 wherein removing at least some of the liquid comprises heating pyrolyzing or calcining

Embodiment 65. The method of any one of embodiments 1 64 wherein removing at least some of the liquid comprises exchange of the liquid with another liquid.

Embodiment 66. The method of any one of embodiments 1 65 wherein removing at least some of the liquid comprises extraction of the liquid.

Embodiment 67. The method of any one of embodiments 1 66 further comprising treating the material to form a second material.

Embodiment 68. The method of embodiment 67 wherein treating the material changes the hydrophobicity or hydrophilicity of the material.

Embodiment 69. The method of embodiment 67 or 68 wherein treating the material causes coating or deposition of an organic or inorganic substance on the surface of the material or inside the material.

Embodiment 70. The method of any one of embodiments 67 69 wherein treating the material changes the composition of at least one component of the material.

Embodiment 71. The method of any one of embodiments 67 70 wherein treating the material causes chemical reduction or oxidation of at least one component of the material.

Embodiment 72. The method of any one of embodiments 67 71 wherein treating the material causes ion exchange of at least one component of the material.

Embodiment 73. The method of any one of embodiments 67 72 wherein treating the material changes the chemical structure of at least one component of the material.

Embodiment 74. The method of any one of embodiments 67 73 wherein treating the material changes the surface area of the material.

Embodiment 75. The method of any one of embodiments 67 74 wherein treating the material comprises heating evaporation dehydration hydrothermal treatment solvothermal treatment ionothermal treatment crystallization pyrolysis carbothermal reaction calcination or a combination of thereof.

Embodiment 76. The method of any one of embodiments 1 75 wherein the material is responsive to a chemical a biological material an electric field a magnetic field temperature pressure an electromagnetic wave a mechanical force or a combination of thereof.

Embodiment 79. The method of any one of embodiments 1 78 wherein the material has micropores mesopores macropores or a combination thereof.

Embodiment 83. The method of embodiment 82 wherein contacting the first material with the fluid breaks up or disintegrates the first material.

Embodiment 84. The method of embodiments 82 or 83 wherein heating and or aging a geopolymer resin material comprises heating and or aging the geopolymer resin material at a temperature below 100 C.

Embodiment 85. The method of any one of embodiments 82 84 wherein heating and or aging a geopolymer resin material comprises heating and or aging the geopolymer resin material while varying the heating and or aging temperature.

Embodiment 86. The method of any one of embodiments 82 85 wherein heating and or aging a geopolymer resin material comprises heating and or aging the geopolymer resin material under a controlled humidity.

Embodiment 87. The method of any one of embodiments 82 86 wherein heating and or aging a geopolymer resin material comprises heating and or aging the geopolymer resin material under an ambient pressure.

Embodiment 88. The method of any one of embodiments 82 87 wherein heating and or aging a geopolymer resin material comprises heating and or aging the geopolymer resin material in a closed container under a pressure not greater than 2 atm.

Embodiment 89. The method of any one of embodiments 82 88 wherein heating and or aging a geopolymer resin material comprises heating and or aging the geopolymer resin material without stirring the resin.

Embodiment 92. The method of any one of embodiments 82 91 wherein the first material comprises particulates.

Embodiment 93. The method of any one of embodiments 82 92 wherein the first material is a paste or sludge.

Embodiment 94. The method of any one of embodiments 82 93 wherein the first material is a liquid more viscous than water.

Embodiment 95. The method of any one of embodiments 82 94 wherein the first material is a geopolymer material.

Embodiment 96. The method of any one of embodiments 82 95 wherein the first material has a significant degree of crystallinity.

Embodiment 97. The method of any one of embodiments 82 96 wherein heating and or aging the geopolymer resin material provides a significant degree of crystallinity in the first material.

Embodiment 98. The method of any one of embodiments 82 97 wherein the first material comprises a zeolite or zeolite composite.

Embodiment 99. The method of any one of embodiments 82 98 wherein the first material comprises a zeolite and water soluble organics with a molecular weight no greater than about 1000 g mol.

Embodiment 100. The method of any one of embodiments 82 99 wherein the second material comprises particulates.

Embodiment 101. The method of any one of embodiments 82 100 wherein the second material comprises a dispersion suspension sludge or paste containing particulates.

Embodiment 102. The method of embodiment 100 or 101 wherein a majority or a significant majority of the particulates consist essentially of or include a material that consists of particulates agglomerates of particles and or aggregates of particles for which the particles have one or more external dimensions in the size range 1 100 nm for more than about 50 of their number and or has internal or surface structures in one or more dimensions in the size range 1 100 nm and or has an external specific surface area by volume greater than 60 m cm.

Embodiment 103. The method of any one of embodiments 100 102 wherein a majority or a significant majority of the particulates exhibit micropores with a pore diameter not larger than 2 nm.

Embodiment 104. The method of any one of embodiments 100 103 wherein a majority or a significant majority of the particulates have one or more external dimensions in the size range from about 0.1 m to about 100 m.

Embodiment 105. The method of any one of embodiments 100 104 wherein a majority or a significant majority of the particulates have one or more external dimensions in the size range from about 100 m to about 5000 m.

Embodiment 106. The method of any one of embodiments 100 105 wherein a majority or a significant majority of the particulates have one or more external dimensions in the size range from about 5 mm to about 2 cm.

Embodiment 107. The method of any one of embodiments 82 106 wherein the geopolymer resin material comprises silicates aluminates aluminosilicates organo silicates organo aluminosilicates phosphates silico phosphates silico aluminophosphates or a combination thereof.

Embodiment 108. The method of any one of embodiments 82 107 wherein the geopolymer resin material is formed by dissolving an acidic or basic solution comprising dissolved or partially dissolved clay material activated clay material or calcined clay material and hardening the solution.

Embodiment 109. The method of any one of embodiments 82 108 wherein the geopolymer resin material is an alkali solution of one or more inorganic materials selected from the group consisting of fumed silica rice husk ash silica fume silicates aluminates aluminosilicates organosilanes clays minerals metakaolinite metakaolin activated clays calcined clays fly ash slag pozzolan incinerated utility waste glass powder and red mud.

Embodiment 110. The method of any one of embodiments 82 109 wherein the geopolymer resin material comprises an alkali or base activated metakaolin or metakaolinite.

Embodiment 111. The method of any one of embodiments 82 110 wherein the geopolymer material comprises an alkali or base activated fly ash.

Embodiment 112. The method of any one of embodiments 82 111 wherein the geopolymer resin material has the atomic ratio of A to aluminum no smaller than 1 where A is an alkali metal or any combination of alkali metals and the total amount of alkali metal ions no lower than 5 moles per 1 kg of water in the solution.

Embodiment 113. The method of any one of embodiments 82 112 wherein the geopolymer resin material comprises one or more oxides or hydroxides of phosphorous silicon alkali metals alkaline earth metals or hydrates thereof.

Embodiment 114. The method of any one of embodiments 82 113 wherein the geopolymer resin material comprises an organosilane phosphoric acid a phosphate a hydrophosphate an organophosphine oxide phosphates silico phosphates silico aluminophosphates or a combination thereof.

Embodiment 115. The method of any one of embodiments 82 114 wherein the geopolymer resin material is aged.

Embodiment 116. The method of any one of embodiments 82 115 wherein the geopolymer resin material comprises one or more additional components independently selected from the group consisting molecules monomers oligomers polymers ions salts biomaterials structure directing agents pore templating agents surfactants clusters nanoparticles particles fibers fillers or a combination of thereof.

Embodiment 117. The method of embodiment 116 wherein the one or more additional components of the geopolymer resin material comprise an organic compound that is immiscible with water.

Embodiment 118. The method of embodiments 116 or 117 wherein the one or more additional components of the geopolymer resin material comprise an organic compound that reacts with an alkali solution to produce one or more carboxylate ions that have a molecular weight no larger than about 400 g mol.

Embodiment 119. The method of any one of embodiments 116 118 wherein the one or more additional components of the geopolymer resin material comprise carboxylate ions that have a molecular weight no larger than about 400 g mol.

Embodiment 120. The method of any one of embodiments 116 119 wherein the one or more additional components of the geopolymer resin material are independently selected from the group consisting vegetable oil plant oil animal oil waste vegetable oil waste animal oil fat biodiesel fatty acid lipid ester carboxylic acid or a combination thereof.

Embodiment 121. The method of any one of embodiments 116 120 wherein the one or more additional components of the geopolymer resin material are carboxylate ions that have a molecular weight no larger than about 400 g mol.

Embodiment 122. The method of any one of embodiments 82 121 wherein the geopolymer resin material has a water content no greater than 60 wt .

Embodiment 123. The method of any one of embodiments 82 122 wherein the geopolymer resin material has a water content no greater than 50 wt .

Embodiment 124. The method of any one of embodiments 82 123 wherein the geopolymer resin material has a water content no greater than 40 wt .

Embodiment 125. The method of any one of embodiments 82 124 wherein contacting the first material with the fluid comprises contacting the first material with the fluid at a controlled temperature.

Embodiment 126. The method of any one of embodiments 82 125 wherein contacting the first material with the fluid comprises washing the first material with the fluid at a controlled temperature.

Embodiment 127. The method of any one of embodiments 82 126 wherein contacting the first material with the fluid comprises heating the first material in the fluid at a temperature below 100 C.

Embodiment 128. The method of any one of embodiments 82 127 wherein contacting the first material with the fluid comprises heating the first material in the fluid under a controlled humidity and or atmosphere.

Embodiment 129. The method of any one of embodiments 82 128 wherein contacting the first material with the fluid causes the first material to break up into smaller pieces.

Embodiment 130. The method of any one of embodiments 82 129 wherein contacting the first material with the fluid causes the first material to disintegrate into particulates.

Embodiment 131. The method of any one of embodiments 82 130 wherein contacting the first material with the fluid comprises breaking fracturing cracking crushing pounding grinding pulverizing milling granulating crumbling smashing mashing pressing or triturating the first material in the fluid.

Embodiment 132. The method of any one of embodiments 82 131 wherein contacting the first material with the fluid comprises stirring shaking shearing agitating sonicating or vibrating the first material in the fluid.

Embodiment 133. The method of any one of embodiments 82 132 wherein contacting the first material with the fluid changes the composition of the fluid and or the composition of the first material.

Embodiment 134. The method of any one of embodiments 82 133 wherein contacting the first material with the fluid removes one or more components of the first material.

Embodiment 135. The method of any one of embodiments 82 134 wherein contacting the first material with the fluid dissolves one or more components of the first material into the fluid.

Embodiment 136. The method of any one of embodiments 82 135 wherein the first material comprises carboxylate ions and contacting the first material with the fluid dissolves carboxylate ions in the first material into the fluid.

Embodiment 139. The method of any one of embodiments 82 138 wherein the fluid is circulated and or pressurized.

Embodiment 142. The method of any one of embodiments 82 141 wherein removing at least some of the fluid comprises removing a majority of the fluid.

Embodiment 143. The method of any one of embodiments 82 142 wherein removing at least some of the fluid comprises precipitation decantation filtration centrifugation or a combination thereof.

Embodiment 144. The method of any one of embodiments 82 143 wherein removing at least some of the fluid comprises drying spray drying freeze drying evaporation dehydrating or a combination thereof.

Embodiment 145. The method of any one of embodiments 82 144 wherein removing at least some of the fluid comprises heating pyrolyzing calcining or a combination thereof.

Embodiment 146. The method of any one of embodiments 82 145 wherein removing at least some of the fluid comprises exchange of the fluid with another fluid.

Embodiment 147. The method of any one of embodiments 82 146 wherein removing at least some of the fluid comprises extraction of the fluid.

Embodiment 148. The method of any one of embodiments 82 147 wherein the second material is a powder or a powder cake.

Embodiment 149. The method of any one of embodiments 82 148 wherein the second material is a suspension slurry a sludge or a paste.

Embodiment 150. The method of any one of embodiments 82 149 wherein the second material comprises dried particulates.

Embodiment 151. The method of any one of embodiments 82 150 further comprising treating the second material to produce a third material.

Embodiment 152. The method of embodiments 151 wherein treating the second material changes the chemical composition of at least one component of the second material.

Embodiment 153. The method of embodiments 151 or 152 wherein treating the second material changes the chemical structure of at least one component of the second material.

Embodiment 154. The method of any one of embodiments 151 153 wherein treating the second material changes the morphology of the second material.

Embodiment 155. The method of any one of embodiments 151 154 wherein treating the second material comprises adding an additive to the second material to form a mixture followed by spinning spreading screeding spraying dispensing injecting foaming shaping molding granulating ribboning extruding or pultruding the mixture.

Embodiment 156. The method of any one of embodiments 151 155 wherein treating the second material comprises adding an additive to the second material followed by spinning spreading screeding spraying dispensing injecting foaming shaping molding ribboning extruding or pultruding the mixture and heating the mixture during at least part of the time during spinning spreading screeding spraying dispensing injecting foaming shaping molding granulating ribboning extruding or pultruding.

Embodiment 157. The method of any one of embodiments 151 156 wherein the third material is in a form of monoliths plates films thin films coatings wires spheres beads pellets rods or a combination thereof.

Embodiment 158. The method of any one of embodiments 151 157 wherein the third material is a composite comprising organic material polymer material inorganic material biological material or a combination thereof.

Embodiment 159. The method of any one of embodiments 151 158 wherein the third material is a composite comprising the second material for which at least some portion of its pores are impregnated with organic material polymer material inorganic material biological material or a combination thereof.

Embodiment 160. The method of any one of embodiments 151 159 wherein the third material is a composite comprising the second material for which at least some portion of its internal and or external surface is covered with organic material polymer material inorganic material biological material or a combination thereof.

Embodiment 161. The method of any one of embodiments 82 160 wherein the first material the second material the third material or a combination thereof comprises a zeolite.

Embodiment 162. The method of any one of embodiments 82 161 wherein the first material the second material the third material or any combination thereof has micropores mesopores macropores or a combination thereof.

Embodiment 164. A material comprising the first material the second material or the third material of any one of embodiments 82 163.

Embodiment 165. The method of any one of embodiments 1 79 and 82 162 wherein the material the first material the second material or the third material consists essentially of or include a material that consists of particulates agglomerates of particles and or aggregates of particles for which the particles have one or more external dimensions in the size range 1 100 nm for more than about 50 of their number and or has internal or surface structures in one or more dimensions in the size range 1 100 nm and or has an external specific surface area by volume greater than 60 m cm.

Embodiment 166. The material of any one of embodiments 80 81 163 and 164 wherein the material the first material the second material or the third material consists essentially of or include a material that consists of particulates agglomerates of particles and or aggregates of particles for which the particles have one or more external dimensions in the size range 1 100 nm for more than about 50 of their number and or has internal or surface structures in one or more dimensions in the size range 1 100 nm and or has an external specific surface area by volume greater than 60 m cm.

A number of embodiments of the invention have been described. Nevertheless it will be understood that various modifications may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly other embodiments are within the scope of the following claims.

