---

title: Enhanced resource management for a network system
abstract: According to exemplary embodiments, a method for resource management of network systems includes sampling channel states of a first set of channels from at least one base station associated with a radio network controller providing an application and estimating channel states of a second set of channels from the at least one base station, wherein the estimated channel states are based on previously sampled channel states and currently sampled channel states. The method further includes adapting at least one runtime parameter of the application based on the sampled channel states of the first set of channels and the estimated channel states of the second set of channels.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09094872&OS=09094872&RS=09094872
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 09094872
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120124
---
This invention was made with Government support under Contract Number 60NANB10D003 awarded by National Institute of Standards and Technology NIST . The Government has certain rights in this invention.

The present invention relates to wireless networks and more specifically to adaptive management of wireless network resources. A cellular network is a radio network distributed over selected areas called cells each cell served by at least one fixed location transceiver known as a base station. A radio network controller RNC may be used to communicate and control plurality of base stations. One or more RNCs communicates to a central server or core which may provide a selected application for an end user. When joined together the cells provide radio coverage over a wide geographic area. This enables portable transceivers or mobile devices such as mobile phones smart phones camera phones personal digital assistants PDAs tablets and laptop computers to initiate or otherwise transmit a signal to the base station in order to initiate a call or data session and begin transmitting data. As more content is available on mobile devices such as smart phones and the number of these devices with increased content increases bandwidth available to end users should be managed to ensure a satisfactory user experience.

Bandwidth availability between base stations and mobile devices is limited due to various factors including a limited spectrum and prevalence of low bandwidth microwave links. In some cases bandwidth usage by selected mobile devices called channels may vary rapidly in a relatively short period of time. In cases where the bandwidth available is not sufficient to transmit the data provided by the server the server is notified of data that was not transmitted such as by receiving notice of lost packets. The bandwidth variation may change so frequently for these channels that the server cannot make accurate transmission adjustments after receiving notice of lost packets.

According to exemplary embodiments a method for resource management of network systems includes sampling channel states of a first set of channels from at least one base station associated with a radio network controller providing an application and estimating channel states of a second set of channels from the at least one base station wherein the estimated channel states are based on previously sampled channel states and currently sampled channel states. The method further includes adapting at least one runtime parameter of the application based on the sampled channel states of the first set of channels and the estimated channel states of the second set of channels.

According to further exemplary embodiments a computer program product for managing resources is provided that includes a computer readable storage medium having computer readable program code embodied therewith. The computer readable program code includes computer readable program code configured to sample channel states of a first set of channels from at least one base station associated with a radio network controller providing an application and estimate channel states of a second set of channels from the at least one base station wherein the estimated channel states are based on previously sampled channel states and currently sampled channel states. The computer readable program code is also configured to adapt at least one runtime parameter of the application based on the sampled channel states of the first set of channels and the estimated channel states of the second set of channels.

Additional features and advantages are realized through the techniques of the present invention. Other embodiments and aspects of the invention are described in detail herein and are considered a part of the claimed invention. For a better understanding of the invention with the advantages and the features refer to the description and to the drawings.

An embodiment of the present invention is directed to improving accuracy of bandwidth determinations while reducing costs e.g. overhead resource usage of monitoring bandwidth. An embodiment includes base stations BSs configured to sample channel state information for each channel or mobile device associated with each BS. The channel states of a set of channels are communicated by the BSs to an associated radio network controller RNC . In an embodiment the set of channels that are sampled and provided to the RNC is a subset of all channels of the BSs associated with RNC. The subset is selected based on criteria such as a determined variability or estimation error probability for the state of each channel. In an embodiment the error probabilities in estimating channel states are used to indicate channels that are volatile or likely to change and those channels are selected to be sampled. Accordingly the channel states of the remaining channels are determined by estimating the channel states using a selected mathematical statistical method such as a likelihood estimator based on the learned channel state distribution. The estimation process can occur upstream of the BS such as in the RNC or on a server providing one or more applications for the mobile device.

The sampled channel states and estimated channel states are then combined to provide a complete set of channel state information for the RNC. The RNC or server may then adapt one or more runtime parameter of the application for a mobile device based on the complete set of channel state information. The runtime parameter is adapted or adjusted to improve at least one objective function of the application where the improved objective function enhances the application performance on the mobile device. The channel states of a plurality of channels are determined and the runtime parameter for each application on a mobile device is adapted. Accordingly a plurality of applications and runtime parameters are adjusted by the application host e.g. RNC or server . Embodiments use the combination of sampled and estimated channel states to reduce bandwidth usage in an upstream direction from the BS to RNC while also providing substantially real time information to improve resource utilization in a downstream direction i.e. related to communication away from the server and toward the mobile devices . By sampling channel states in the BS the information is provided in substantially real time fashion to improve accuracy while matching the application runtime parameters to the current conditions of the wireless channels to improve application performance on the mobile device.

It is understood in advance that although this disclosure includes a detailed description on cloud computing implementation of the teachings recited herein are not limited to a cloud computing environment. Rather embodiments of the present invention are capable of being implemented in conjunction with any other type of computing environment now known or later developed.

Cloud computing is a model of service delivery for enabling convenient on demand network access to a shared pool of configurable computing resources e.g. networks network bandwidth servers processing memory storage applications virtual machines and services that can be rapidly provisioned and released with minimal management effort or interaction with a provider of the service. This cloud model may include at least five characteristics at least three service models and at least four deployment models.

On demand self service a cloud consumer can unilaterally provision computing capabilities such as server time and network storage as needed automatically without requiring human interaction with the service s provider.

Broad network access capabilities are available over a network and accessed through standard mechanisms that promote use by heterogeneous thin or thick client platforms e.g. mobile phones laptops and PDAs .

Resource pooling the provider s computing resources are pooled to serve multiple consumers using a multi tenant model with different physical and virtual resources dynamically assigned and reassigned according to demand. There is a sense of location independence in that the consumer generally has no control or knowledge over the exact location of the provided resources but may be able to specify location at a higher level of abstraction e.g. country state or datacenter .

Rapid elasticity capabilities can be rapidly and elastically provisioned in some cases automatically to quickly scale out and rapidly released to quickly scale in. To the consumer the capabilities available for provisioning often appear to be unlimited and can be purchased in any quantity at any time.

Measured service cloud systems automatically control and optimize resource use by leveraging a metering capability at some level of abstraction appropriate to the type of service e.g. storage processing bandwidth and active user accounts . Resource usage can be monitored controlled and reported providing transparency for both the provider and consumer of the utilized service.

Software as a Service SaaS the capability provided to the consumer is to use the provider s applications running on a cloud infrastructure. The applications are accessible from various client devices through a thin client interface such as a web browser e.g. web based email . The consumer does not manage or control the underlying cloud infrastructure including network servers operating systems storage or even individual application capabilities with the possible exception of limited user specific application configuration settings.

Platform as a Service PaaS the capability provided to the consumer is to deploy onto the cloud infrastructure consumer created or acquired applications created using programming languages and tools supported by the provider. The consumer does not manage or control the underlying cloud infrastructure including networks servers operating systems or storage but has control over the deployed applications and possibly application hosting environment configurations.

Infrastructure as a Service IaaS the capability provided to the consumer is to provision processing storage networks and other fundamental computing resources where the consumer is able to deploy and run arbitrary software which can include operating systems and applications. The consumer does not manage or control the underlying cloud infrastructure but has control over operating systems storage deployed applications and possibly limited control of select networking components e.g. host firewalls .

Private cloud the cloud infrastructure is operated solely for an organization. It may be managed by the organization or a third party and may exist on premises or off premises.

Community cloud the cloud infrastructure is shared by several organizations and supports a specific community that has shared concerns e.g. mission security requirements policy and compliance considerations . It may be managed by the organizations or a third party and may exist on premises or off premises.

Public cloud the cloud infrastructure is made available to the general public or a large industry group and is owned by an organization selling cloud services.

Hybrid cloud the cloud infrastructure is a composition of two or more clouds private community or public that remain unique entities but are bound together by standardized or proprietary technology that enables data and application portability e.g. cloud bursting for load balancing between clouds .

A cloud computing environment is service oriented with a focus on statelessness low coupling modularity and semantic interoperability. At the heart of cloud computing is an infrastructure comprising a network of interconnected nodes.

Referring now to a schematic of an example of a cloud computing node is shown. Cloud computing node is only one example of a suitable cloud computing node and is not intended to suggest any limitation as to the scope of use or functionality of embodiments of the invention described herein. Regardless cloud computing node is capable of being implemented and or performing any of the functionality set forth hereinabove.

In cloud computing node there is a computer system server which is operational with numerous other general purpose or special purpose computing system environments or configurations. Examples of well known computing systems environments and or configurations that may be suitable for use with computer system server include but are not limited to personal computer systems server computer systems thin clients thick clients handheld or laptop devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based systems set top boxes programmable consumer electronics network PCs minicomputer systems mainframe computer systems and distributed cloud computing environments that include any of the above systems or devices and the like.

Computer system server may be described in the general context of computer system executable instructions such as program modules being executed by a computer system. Generally program modules may include routines programs objects components logic data structures and so on that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Computer system server may be practiced in distributed cloud computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed cloud computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote computer system storage media including memory storage devices.

As shown in computer system server in cloud computing node is shown in the form of a general purpose computing device. The components of computer system server may include but are not limited to one or more processors or processing units a system memory and a bus that couples various system components including system memory to processor .

Bus represents one or more of any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus an accelerated graphics port and a processor or local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. By way of example and not limitation such architectures include Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus Enhanced ISA EISA bus Video Electronics Standards Association VESA local bus and Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus.

Computer system server typically includes a variety of computer system readable media. Such media may be any available media that is accessible by computer system server and it includes both volatile and non volatile media removable and non removable media.

System memory can include computer system readable media in the form of volatile memory such as random access memory RAM and or cache memory . Computer system server may further include other removable non removable volatile non volatile computer system storage media. By way of example only storage system can be provided for reading from and writing to a non removable non volatile magnetic media not shown and typically called a hard drive . Although not shown a magnetic disk drive for reading from and writing to a removable non volatile magnetic disk e.g. a floppy disk and an optical disk drive for reading from or writing to a removable non volatile optical disk such as a CD ROM DVD ROM or other optical media can be provided. In such instances each can be connected to bus by one or more data media interfaces. As will be further depicted and described below memory may include at least one program product having a set e.g. at least one of program modules that are configured to carry out the functions of embodiments of the invention.

Program utility having a set at least one of program modules may be stored in memory by way of example and not limitation as well as an operating system one or more application programs other program modules and program data. Each of the operating system one or more application programs other program modules and program data or some combination thereof may include an implementation of a networking environment. Program modules generally carry out the functions and or methodologies of embodiments of the invention as described herein.

Computer system server may also communicate with one or more external devices such as a keyboard a pointing device a display etc. one or more devices that enable a user to interact with computer system server and or any devices e.g. network card modem etc. that enable computer system server to communicate with one or more other computing devices. Such communication can occur via Input Output I O interfaces . Still yet computer system server can communicate with one or more networks such as a local area network LAN a general wide area network WAN and or a public network e.g. the Internet via network adapter . As depicted network adapter communicates with the other components of computer system server via bus . It should be understood that although not shown other hardware and or software components could be used in conjunction with computer system server . Examples include but are not limited to microcode device drivers redundant processing units external disk drive arrays RAID systems tape drives and data archival storage systems etc.

Referring now to illustrative cloud computing environment is depicted. As shown cloud computing environment comprises one or more cloud computing nodes with which local computing devices used by cloud consumers such as for example personal digital assistant PDA or cellular telephone A desktop computer B laptop computer C and or automobile computer system N may communicate. Nodes may communicate with one another. They may be grouped not shown physically or virtually in one or more networks such as Private Community Public or Hybrid clouds as described hereinabove or a combination thereof. This allows cloud computing environment to offer infrastructure platforms and or software as services for which a cloud consumer does not need to maintain resources on a local computing device. It is understood that the types of computing devices A N shown in are intended to be illustrative only and that computing nodes and cloud computing environment can communicate with any type of computerized device over any type of network and or network addressable connection e.g. using a web browser .

Referring now to a set of functional abstraction layers provided by cloud computing environment is shown. It should be understood in advance that the components layers and functions shown in are intended to be illustrative only and embodiments of the invention are not limited thereto. As depicted the following layers and corresponding functions are provided 

Hardware and software layer includes hardware and software components. Examples of hardware components include mainframes in one example IBM zSeries systems RISC Reduced Instruction Set Computer architecture based servers in one example IBM pSeries systems IBM xSeries systems IBM BladeCenter systems storage devices networks and networking components. Examples of software components include network application server software in one example IBM WebSphere application server software and database software in one example IBM DB2 database software. IBM zSeries pSeries xSeries BladeCenter WebSphere and DB2 are trademarks of International Business Machines Corporation registered in many jurisdictions worldwide .

Virtualization layer provides an abstraction layer from which the following examples of virtual entities may be provided virtual servers virtual storage virtual networks including virtual private networks virtual applications and operating systems and virtual clients.

In one example management layer may provide the functions described below. Resource provisioning provides dynamic procurement of computing resources and other resources that are utilized to perform tasks within the cloud computing environment. Metering and Pricing provide cost tracking as resources are utilized within the cloud computing environment and billing or invoicing for consumption of these resources. In one example these resources may comprise application software licenses. Security provides identity verification for cloud consumers and tasks as well as protection for data and other resources. User portal provides access to the cloud computing environment for consumers and system administrators. Service level management provides cloud computing resource allocation and management such that required service levels are met. Service Level Agreement SLA planning and fulfillment provide pre arrangement for and procurement of cloud computing resources for which a future requirement is anticipated in accordance with an SLA.

Workloads layer provides examples of functionality for which the cloud computing environment may be utilized. Examples of workloads and functions which may be provided from this layer include mapping and navigation software development and lifecycle management virtual classroom education delivery data analytics processing transaction processing and data integration workflow processing.

Cloud computing is an attractive way to deliver services using a number of delivery models e.g. as Software as a Service SaaS Platform as a Service Paas Infrastructure as a Service IaaS as mentioned above. Cloud computing is attractive since it simplifies management from the end user perspective and delivers efficiencies that come from pooling resources. One potential drawback of cloud computing is increased communication between the end user terminal and the cloud computing infrastructure.

Increasingly smartphones i.e. mobile devices are the terminals of choice through which the end users consume different cloud computing applications and services. The present invention can be used to deliver cloud services and applications to the smartphones and other wireless devices connected through cellular infrastructure in a more efficient manner by optimizing communication between the smartphones and cloud computing infrastructure. In a cellular network the cloud computing infrastructure may be located in the base stations BSs to minimize latency between the end user terminals and the cloud. Alternatively the cloud computing infrastructure may be hosted in the physical space that houses aggregation points radio network controller or core network. In either case the bandwidth between the smartphones and the BS and the bandwidth between the BSs and the radio network controller can be limited and needs to be carefully used to optimize the user experience and deliver high quality cloud computing applications and services. The present invention discloses a method in which applications are tuned to address the bottlenecks in different communication links based on the measurements available at the BS in such a manner that the benefits of doing so are improved and the cost of measurements are reduced. It is noted that the utility of the described embodiments are not limited to applications and services being delivered using the cloud computing model.

In one exemplary embodiment a resource management application or module in the management layer implements the processes described herein however it will be understood that the application may be implemented in any layer.

The resource management application includes one or more algorithms or functions to implement embodiments described herein to determine resource usage for communication channels and allocate resources accordingly in the virtual environment. In an embodiment the resource management application along with other portions of management layer and or virtualization layer are coupled to and or reside in the memory shown in . In addition embodiments of the resource management application include one or more program modules of the program utility shown in . In a further embodiment the resource management application is part of the management layer and is executed on hardware located in the hardware and software layer .

Turning now to a diagram of a network system in accordance with an embodiment is generally shown. The network system includes a server or core control which is associated with a plurality of radio network controllers RNCs . The RNC is associated with a plurality of base stations BSs that correspond to respective cell areas thereby providing service to mobile devices in the network. For simplicity and ease of explanation the single RNC is illustrated but any number of RNCs may be connected to the server wherein each RNC communicates with a plurality of BSs and each BS communicates with a plurality of mobile and pervasive computing devices. The mobile devices communicate to their respective BS via channels to communicate to other mobile hand held devices . Accordingly each mobile device has a corresponding channel that provides data information and or applications requested by the mobile device . In embodiments the application originates in the server or RNC and is communicated downstream i.e. toward the device to the mobile device when requested. Delivery of the applications to the mobile devices may utilize varying levels of bandwidth in each channel depending on the application and or properties of the application e.g. bandwidth required requested. Further in an embodiment the bandwidth available in each channel at a particular moment in time may be limited based on signal strength noise fading and interference due to other traffic and bandwidth consumption associated with the traffic to and from the BS .

In an embodiment the BSs are each configured to sample or measure bandwidth usage for each channel at a high sampling rate wherein the sampled bandwidth information for each channel is communicated as channel state information to the RNC . Communication from the BS to the RNC is represented by communication arrow wherein the communication includes the channel state information for channels . Communication from the RNC to the BS is represented by communication arrow where in the communication includes the application to be directed to the mobile devices by channels . The application may be hosted by the RNC or the server wherein communication between the server and the RNC is represented by arrows and . One example of an application hosted by the RNC is data access e.g. multimedia file downloading or streaming through an RNC with caching capability where the data can be directly served from the cache of the RNC if there is a cache hit. By sampling the channel states at the BSs channel state information e.g. available bandwidth is provided in a real time fashion to application hosts e.g. the RNC or server which in turn can adapt runtime parameters of the application based on the channel state information. The real time sampling enables the adaptation or adjustment to the runtime parameter without perceivable delay for the user application at the mobile device. In an embodiment the BSs may communicate available bandwidth channel state information for at least a portion of the channels to the server via BSs and RNC wherein the server adjusts a runtime parameter such as data rate i.e. amount of bandwidth consumed for an application to match the channel state for each channel . Examples of channel state information also include but are not limited to delay and delay jittering. In an example the application provided to the mobile device is a video hosted by the server wherein the server can transcode such that video quality runtime parameter is based on the available bandwidth channel state . Other examples of runtime parameters include a size of a prefetch window for video streaming.

As depicted a first set of the channel states are sampled at the BSs and a second set of the channel states are estimated. The channels to be sampled are selected based on determined parameters such as a fluctuation in channel state information including capacity of the channels. In one embodiment the channels with relatively high variability in channel states relative to other channels are sampled whereas the other channels with reduced or low variability have estimated channel states. In an embodiment the channel states are estimated using statistical and or mathematical methods based on previously sampled channel states as well as current channel states. Using the estimating methods the error probability for estimating channel state information for each channel is determined wherein a relatively high error probability is an indicator of a relatively high variability that indicates the channel should be sampled. The previously sampled channel states used for estimation may be logged data from the BS and mobile devices or archived data from similar systems. Accordingly in an embodiment channel states for each channel of the BS are sampled and used to determine the channels for which sampled are reported or communicated to the RNC .

Any suitable statistical methods and tools may be used for estimating channel states and determining which channels are sampled including but not limited to probability analysis functions statistical models histograms learned distribution and likelihood estimator functions. After selecting the channels to be sampled the method may also be used to estimate a series of channel states for a subset of or all channels of each BS. The channel states for sampled channels are sampled at a selected rate to provide channel state information in substantially real time to the RNC and or server . In an example the channel state of each channel is sampled at a rate of about 50 samples second. In another example the sampling rate is about 100 samples second. Another exemplary BS may sample channel states for selected channels at about 5 100 samples second. The number or quantity of channels selected for sampling may be subject to a constraint or limitation on the entire amount of sampled channel states from all the channels in communication with the RNC or a separate constraint or limitation on the amount of sampled channel states from the channels associated with each BS . For example the RNC associated with 1000 mobile devices via channels and BSs is limited to receiving channel state information from 300 of the channels at a given sampling rate due to bandwidth limitations. Accordingly channel states for the remaining 700 channels are estimated using a selected method. In another embodiment the RNC associated with 1000 mobile devices via 10 BSs with 100 channels per BS is limited to sampling 20 channel states for each BS. Thus channel states for the remaining 80 channels of each BS are estimated using a selected method where 200 channels are sampled and the remaining 800 are estimated . In one embodiment channel states for each channel in the system are sampled and a subset or portion of the sampled channels are reported or communicated to the RNC while the BS discards or aggregates the unreported samples for possible future use. In embodiments channel state error probabilities for each channel are determined and compared to a threshold value to determine which channel states to report and which channel states values to estimate. In an embodiment this process may occur at the BS by a sampler or sample controller enabling distributed processing of the method to improve performance. In another embodiment a sample controller hosts the sampling and estimating decision process or logic.

The channels to be sampled are selected based on the methods described above such as using probability and or likelihood functions to estimate channel states for each channel . In an embodiment after estimating channel states for each channel the error probability for each estimate is then determined wherein a relatively high error probability indicates that the channel should be selected to be sampled. In an example during an initialization step where no channel states have been sampled the channel states for each channel are sampled at least once and the channel states are processed to determine which channels to sample and which channels to estimate. In embodiments the error probability is compared to a threshold value to determine if the channel is to be sampled or estimated. In another embodiment the error probabilities for all channels e.g. for the RNC or each BS are determined where a selected number of channels with the largest error probabilities are selected for sampling. As discussed above the sampling limitation may be imposed on the total number of channel states to be reported for all the channels associated with the RNC or on the number of channel states to be reported for the channels associated with each BS . For example when a limitation of only 20 of 100 channels are to be sampled and reported to the RNC the 20 channels with highest error probabilities are selected for sampling and reporting. The channels selected for sampling may be changed based on application specific factors where the sampled channels are selected at an interval such as a plurality of times per second or are selected based on a triggering event such as a change in estimated channel state values. By providing channel state information for all channels but only utilizing bandwidth for communicating a subset of the total channels to the RNC resources are managed and conserved. As discussed below with reference to the estimation and sampling control may occur in one or more location in the system such as at BSs RNC and or server .

Illustrated embodiments use channel state as an example of the information that is used for application optimization but the resource management application and method applies to sampling and estimation of any rapidly changing information at BSs that is useful for optimizing application parameters. Examples of rapidly changing information that could be useful include mobile device key performance indicators such as but not limited to CPU memory and battery levels.

In an embodiment the estimation of channel state information is performed by the maximum likelihood estimator estimated state of channel max where p j j is any possible channel state is the empirical distribution of the channel state for channel i computed by sampled state of channel is total sampling channel .

The sampling is performed by selecting channels within the sampling constraint to maximize summation 1 max sqrt log where maxp j is the largest empirical probability defined as in the maximum likelihood estimator above sqrt . is the square root function w is a design parameter log . is the logarithmic function natural log t is the number of time steps elapsed since the beginning of sampling mis the number of times channel i is sampled. This sampling criterion allows the combination of a sampling channels with large estimation error probability i.e. 1 maxp j is large and b sampling channels that are not sampled frequently enough i.e. mis small relative to log t . The design parameter w can be tuned to maximize the accuracy of estimation. In one embodiment where the sampler knows the minimum gap in estimation accuracy between the best and the second best sampling selections D sum correct estimation probabilities under the best sampling selection sum correct estimation probabilities under the second best sampling selection the minimum gap in probability between the most likely and the second most likely channel states E min probability most likely state probability second most likely state 2 and the maximum number of unsampled channels L w is set as w max 1 D 4EL . In another embodiment where D E or L is unknown w is simply set as w 1.

Examples have been used herein to illustrate various methods and systems that may be used to enhance resource management for a network such as a cellular network. It should be noted that methods and systems of combining sampled and estimated channel state information to adjust parameters may apply for communication between any suitable nodes mobile device BS RNC server in the network system. For example the channel state information for channels between BSs and RNCs i.e. upstream or back endnodes may be sampled and estimated in substantially real time wherein the complete set of channel states is used to adapt runtime parameters of data and or applications communicated between BSs and RNCs.

As discussed above sampling estimation and application parameter optimization can be performed at various locations in the system including but not limited to BSs RNC server and any intermediate nodes in between that has information technology IT capability. The application can be run on any node in the system that has IT capability including server RNC BSs and intermediate IT capable nodes in the backhaul portion of the network system. Embodiments applies to nodes in the network as long as the points of obtaining the information e.g. channel states differ from the points of determining or applying application parameter optimization based on the obtained information. For example the resource management application applies if the application is run locally at each BS but the optimization of application parameters is performed deeper in the backhaul e.g. upstream at the RNC due to computation complexity need to jointly optimize across multiple BSs or other technical and non technical considerations.

As will be appreciated by one skilled in the art aspects of the present invention may be embodied as a system method or computer program product. Accordingly aspects of the present invention may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code etc. or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may all generally be referred to herein as a circuit module or system. Furthermore aspects of the present invention may take the form of a computer program product embodied in one or more computer readable medium s having computer readable program code embodied thereon.

Any combination of one or more computer readable medium s may be utilized. The computer readable medium may be a computer readable signal medium or a computer readable storage medium. A computer readable storage medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus or device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. More specific examples a non exhaustive list of the computer readable storage medium would include the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory an optical fiber a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM an optical storage device a magnetic storage device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. In the context of this document a computer readable storage medium may be any tangible medium that can contain or store a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

A computer readable signal medium may include a propagated data signal with computer readable program code embodied therein for example in baseband or as part of a carrier wave. Such a propagated signal may take any of a variety of forms including but not limited to electro magnetic optical or any suitable combination thereof. A computer readable signal medium may be any computer readable medium that is not a computer readable storage medium and that can communicate propagate or transport a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

Program code embodied on a computer readable medium may be transmitted using any appropriate medium including but not limited to wireless wireline optical fiber cable RF etc. or any suitable combination of the foregoing.

Computer program code for carrying out operations for aspects of the present invention may be written in any combination of one or more programming languages including an object oriented programming language such as Java Smalltalk C or the like and conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages. The program code may execute entirely on the user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through any type of network including a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider .

Aspects of the present invention are described below with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods apparatus systems and computer program products according to embodiments of the invention. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable medium that can direct a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable medium produce an article of manufacture including instructions which implement the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer other programmable apparatus or other devices to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide processes for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The flowchart and block diagrams in the Figures illustrate the architecture functionality and operation of possible implementations of systems methods and computer program products according to various embodiments of the present invention. In this regard each block in the flowchart or block diagrams may represent a module segment or portion of code which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s . It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations the functions noted in the block may occur out of the order noted in the figures. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved. It will also be noted that each block of the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration can be implemented by special purpose hardware based systems that perform the specified functions or acts or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises and or comprising when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one more other features integers steps operations element components and or groups thereof.

The corresponding structures materials acts and equivalents of all means or step plus function elements in the claims below are intended to include any structure material or act for performing the function in combination with other claimed elements as specifically claimed. The description of the present invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description but is not intended to be exhaustive or limited to the invention in the form disclosed. Many modifications and variations will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention. The embodiment was chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the invention and the practical application and to enable others of ordinary skill in the art to understand the invention for various embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated.

The flow diagrams depicted herein are just one example. There may be many variations to this diagram or the steps or operations described therein without departing from the spirit of the invention. For instance the steps may be performed in a differing order or steps may be added deleted or modified. All of these variations are considered a part of the claimed invention.

While the preferred embodiment to the invention had been described it will be understood that those skilled in the art both now and in the future may make various improvements and enhancements which fall within the scope of the claims which follow. These claims should be construed to maintain the proper protection for the invention first described.

