---

title: Mooring line restrainer
abstract: Provided herein is a Mooring Line Restrainer capable of withstanding the whiplash from the impact of a snapped mooring line, and including a contoured Restraining Member shaped to engage and restrain snapped mooring lines and incorporating a single or multi-turn spring, mounted on a framework attached to one or more support bases. At least one of the support bases is a magnetic holding device adequate for different sizes of mooring lines, for securely and strongly fixing the Mooring Line Restrainers on the deck of a ship at appropriate positions along and on either sides of the mooring lines as per a mooring layout plan. The support bases have provisions for interlinking the plurality of adjacent or alternate Mooring Line Restrainers for forming a strong structure around the mooring lines for confining and restraining any snapped mooring lines within a narrow zone around their pre-snapped positions on the ship's deck.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09555861&OS=09555861&RS=09555861
owner: 
number: 09555861
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20121130
---
This application is the United States national phase of International Application No. PCT IN2012 000780 filed Nov. 30 2012 and claims priority to Indian Patent Application No. 3017 DEL 2012 filed Sep. 27 2012 the disclosures of which are hereby incorporated in their entirety by reference.

The present invention relates to a mooring line restrainer for restricting the area on the deck of a ship of the snap back zone of a snapped high tension mooring line in order to eliminate or at least reduce injury to ship s personnel and equipment. More particularly the invention relates to development of novel structural frameworks which can be setup by positioning and linking the mooring line restrainers around the mooring lines on the deck of a ship for restraining any snapped mooring line to a much smaller area.

A Mooring refers to any permanent structure to which a vessel may be secured. A ship is secured to a mooring through mooring lines to forestall free movement of the ship on the water. An anchor mooring fixes a vessel s position relative to a point on the bottom of a waterway without connecting the vessel to shore. A Mooring Operation involves laying mooring lines to remote off board locations like anchors quays wharfs tugs other ships or mooring buoys for securing a ship in a given position.

It is a known fact that snapping of lines constitutes one of the principal hazards associated with mooring operations. The lines can and do part occasionally. Numerous accidents many of them fatal have been regularly reported over the years. When lines under stress break suddenly the free end tends to whip or oscillate violently and hit anybody or anything within their path with tremendous force. A snapped mooring line recoils in an area designated as the Snap back Zone . Statistical evidence shows that in 53 percent of all cases of personal injuries arising from mooring incidents ropes wire or fibre have parted under load and personnel within snap back zones have been hit. In 42 percent of cases ropes wires have not parted but injuries have resulted from ropes jumping slipping off drum ends or bitts or personnel being caught or dragged by ropes fixtures coming off mountings and from other causes UK P I Club s Loss Prevention Bulletin January 2009 .

Qualified seafarers are aware of the fact that a snapback zone exists when a mooring line is under tension and the mooring crew are expected to take this into account when they are working mooring lines on deck. It is possible to roughly estimate the limits of these snap back zones and if they are highlighted on the deck the mooring crew can avoid standing inside or close to these danger areas. Painting these areas also helps supervising officers instruct crew to keep clear when lines are coming under tension. Highlighting mooring line snap back zones ensures that crew can visibly see the danger areas without having to purposely think about them while working.

The shapes and limits of these danger zones have been roughly estimated and as stated earlier as a precaution these are recommended to be marked on the deck and the mooring crews are advised not to stand inside or close to these areas. But very often the mooring crew are required to lay more than one line within the area or because of some other operational considerations it may not be always practicable to avoid the snap back zones. Mooring areas in many cases may also contain several trip and obstruction hazards and highlighting these is a good starting point.

However in several cases the number and arrangement of mooring lines can even create several overlapping snap back zones and it would be difficult for the mooring crew to avoid these dangerous areas. It is also widely recognized that the estimation of the exact size of these snap back zones is a very complex analytical problem and cannot be determined with any reasonable degree of assurance and thus the mooring crew is continuously exposed to danger.

Numerous accidents many of them fatal have involved seamen being caught in bights of or getting entangled with mooring ropes in motion and being dragged into mooring equipment or fittings. Mooring operations are hazardous mainly because of the great loads the mooring lines are subjected to which means that they are likely to part with little warning and great force. When a line breaks or is suddenly released under tension it will travel back probably within a narrow cone around a straight line striking anybody or anything in its path. If the line leads around a roller or a lead then it may potentially whip around in a wider arc.

However since it is known that the actual dimension of such areas is difficult to determine and may potentially extend over an area larger than the limits normally shown in various official safety manuals. This is because there are too many factors like material age condition and length of line deployed the mode of failure and the angle of line that influence the behavior of a snapped mooring line. Therefore the dynamics of a snapped mooring line being very complex is not amenable for analysis by simple mathematical models. A snapped line behaves in a very unpredictable chaotic manner.

In view of this the practice of reliance on the shape and size of the snap back zones determined on the basis of unsound reasoning only provides limited safety in many situations. In reality the incorrectly marked snap back zones may even provide a false sense of safety and security to the mooring crew.

At present there is no specific structural provision for ensuring enhanced safety for personnel engaged in mooring operations. Therefore it is felt that there is a need to develop and design a novel system for restraining any snapped line to a much smaller area by installing appropriate frameworks thus substantially promoting the safety of mooring crew. The instant invention MOORING LINE RESTRAINER aims to restrict the extent of the danger zone and also eliminate the uncertainty in ascertaining the limits of the snap back zones.

An object of the invention is to develop a mooring line restraining devices for restricting the area of the snap back zone of a snapped high tension mooring line on the deck of a ship.

Another object of this invention is to provide specific structural provision for ensuring enhanced safety for personnel engaged in mooring operations.

An additional object of this invention is to position a novel structural framework in place for restraining and confining any snapped mooring line on board a ship to a much smaller area.

Yet another object of this invention is to devise a specially designed mooring line restraining device capable of a restricting the extent of the danger zone and b minimizing the uncertainty in ascertaining the limits of the snap back zones.

A further object of this invention is to develop a novel mooring line restraining device adapted to be interlinked with other similar devices to be placed strategically on the deck of a ship.

An additional object of this invention is to propose a restraining device comprising at least one restraining member adapted to be located on the deck of a ship which is being contoured to be engaged by a mooring line on snapping.

A further additional object of the invention is to considerably reduce the size of the snap back zones thereby greatly extending the safe working area on the decks for the members of the mooring crew.

Yet another additional object of the invention is to develop a contoured restraining device to be mounted on a framework supported on one or more magnetic holding device s for securely anchoring it to a desired location on the ship s deck.

According to the invention there is provided a Mooring Line Restrainer capable of withstanding whiplash from the impact of a snapped mooring line and comprising a contoured Restraining Member shaped to engage and restrain snapped mooring lines and incorporating a single or multi turn spring mounted on a framework attached to one or more support bases. At least one of the support bases is a magnetic holding device of appropriate type and size with sufficient holding strength adequate for different sizes of mooring lines for securely and strongly fixing the Mooring Line Restrainers on the deck of a ship at appropriate positions along and on either sides of the mooring lines as per its mooring layout plan. The support bases have provisions for interlinking the plurality of adjacent or alternate Mooring Line Restrainers for forming a strong structure around the mooring lines for confining and restraining any snapped mooring lines within a narrow zone around their pre snapped positions on the ship s deck thereby substantially reducing the effective snap back zone and consequently increase a safe working area on a ship s deck during mooring and towing operations.

The foregoing has outlined some of the pertinent objects of the invention. These objects should be construed to be merely illustrative of some of the more prominent features and applications of the intended invention. Many other beneficial results can be attained by applying the disclosed invention in a different manner or modifying the invention within the scope of disclosure. Accordingly other objects and a full understanding of the invention and the detailed description of the preferred embodiment in addition to the scope of the invention are to be defined by the claims taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.

While the invention is described in conjunction with the illustrated embodiments it is understood that it is not intended to limit the invention to such embodiments. On the contrary it is intended to cover all alternatives modifications and equivalents may be included within the spirit and scope of the invention disclosure as defined by the claims.

At the outset of the description which follows it is to be understood that the ensuing description only illustrates a particular form of the invention. However such a particular form is only an exemplary embodiment and the teachings of the invention are not intended to be taken restrictively.

For the purpose of promoting an understanding of the principles of the invention reference is now to be made to the embodiments illustrated and the specific language would be used to describe the same. It is nevertheless to be understood that no limitations of the scope of the invention is hereby intended such alterations and further modifications in the illustrated bag and such further applications of the principles of the invention as illustrated therein being contemplated as would normally occur to one skilled in the art to which the invention relates.

The embodiments are described with reference to the drawings in which like parts are referred to by like numerals. These embodiments are for illustrative purpose only and it should be noted that invention is not limited to the embodiments illustrated in the drawings. Certain details e.g. manufacturing assembly details have been omitted since they are not necessary to understand product functioning.

As used herein and subsequently in the claims the singular form a an and the includes plural reference unless the context clearly indicates otherwise.

The present invention relates to a structurally shaped device referred to herein as a mooring line restraining device for engaging and confining any snapped mooring line within a significantly small area. A modular assembly of these devices capable of being assembled and disassembled and located at or near any desired position around mooring lines on the deck of a ship is proposed. As stated the mooring line restraining device is designed to confine any snapped mooring line within a well defined area which is much smaller and narrower than the snap back zones conventionally suggested in various maritime safety manuals. In its broadest novelty the mooring line restraining device of the invention is composed of a a restraining member of sufficient strength to withstand the whiplash of a snapped line and b a sturdy structural framework for positioning the restraining member at an appropriate height around the mooring line c at least one support being a magnetic holding device for firmly anchoring the restraining member on the deck of a ship d the framework employing mechanical advantage and e means for interlinking for forming an assembly of devices for enhanced safety.

The mooring line restraining device of the present invention is unique since there has been no earlier attempt for restricting the size of the snap back zones of mooring lines.

The conventional snap back zone of a mooring line is shown in . This shows the shape of the area considered to be the danger zone the snap back zone indicated in almost every maritime safety manual. As defined in several maritime safety manuals the snap back zone covers about ten degrees on either side of the lay of the line although it is recognized that there is no definite method of accurately ascertaining the extent of these zones.

A typical snap back zone of a line wrapped around a pedestal is shown in . In this case also there is no analytical technique to ascertain the extent of the snap back zone with certainty.

Generally it is recommended that snap back zones be marked on the deck of a ship as indicated in . However in view of the possible changes in the mooring plan layout it is not a universal practice.

Since the orientation of the mooring lines can change for a ship according to mooring plan as per conditions and specific needs in different ports as well as the possibility of the snap back zones of several lines overlapping it is impractical to clearly demarcate definite areas on the deck for locating and fixing such devices. Also it is not advisable to permanently fix any such structures on the deck.

The solution to this dilemma is to fabricate these restraining devices as portable structures which can be quickly placed in desired locations along a mooring line and the problem of fixing these to the deck has been solved by mounting the mooring line restraining devices on appropriate supporting means such as magnetic holding devices. In order to be effective the mooring line restraining devices have to be sufficiently robust to withstand the impact force of a snapped mooring line and fixed firmly to the deck. The magnetic holding devices facilitate positioning and securing of the restraining devices in appropriate locations as required in each situation. Once these mooring line devices of desired strength are appropriately placed around the mooring lines at regular intervals any snapped line would remain confined within a small region along its original orientation thus eliminating or at least reducing the possibility of mooring operations related injuries to a large extent.

In its basic embodiment the mooring line restraining device comprises a restraining member for engaging and holding a snapped mooring line and a magnetic holding device as shown in . The design shown in would be adequate for a mooring line restraining devices of small heights. Preferably the mooring line restraining device of the invention is capable of being interlinked to other similar devices to ensure greater stability. This is achieved by the provision of interlinking means on the base of the supporting means of the restraining member as shown in . In a particular embodiment the mooring line restraining devices can be interlinked through rods or pipes passing through the two interlinking means as shown in . However in this basic embodiment the torque arm of the force of impact of would be much larger than the torque arm of the force of the holding magnet thus requiring impractically large magnets for preventing toppling of the restrainer. Therefore development of more practical embodiments has to be based on a two fold approach 

The subsequent drawings describe several embodiments to illustrate the application of these principles. It is important to stress that in these embodiments the specific forms of the structures shown are not important and may take any convenient alternative form as long as these conform to the approach outlined above.

In general the restraining member is made of a steel rod of appropriate diameter and size and mounted on a framework made of steel tubes or rods attached to at least one magnetic holding device of holding power commensurate with the size and material of the mooring line.

The structure of the mooring line restraining device could take any convenient form in practice to meet the required strength and resilience for mooring lines of different sizes and materials. The design of the mooring line restraining devices for each class of mooring line would have to be carefully arrived at by considering a the material and weight per unit length of the line and b the estimated velocity of a snapped line.

The mooring line restraining device as shown in has a single magnetic holding device on the distal end of the substantially elongate horizontal limb of the restraining member to anchor said member while the near end of the horizontal limb is contoured to constitute a further supporting means. In other embodiments this further supporting means can be made of a small base plate welded to the substantially vertical member of the restraining member device . The mooring line restraining device of can also be provided with interlinking means .

Another preferred embodiment of the mooring line restrainer is shown in . In this embodiment a single or multi turn spring forms an integral part of the restraining member mounted on a horizontal structural member . The distal end of the horizontal member is attached to the holding magnet while the near end is attached to a support base . The interlinking means are provided on the holding magnet and the support base for interlinking of adjacent or alternate mooring line restrainers.

A stronger structure would be required for a heavier mooring line. A sturdier structure for catering to a higher position of a mooring line during mooring operations or for a heavier line is illustrated in . In this embodiment the base of the restraining member comprises a horizontal planar member which is connected to a pair of supporting means through the medium of respective vertical extensions at least one 2 of the supporting means is magnetic. The substantially vertical member forming part of the restraining member device is shown as extending upward from the horizontal planar member . The mooring line device also includes the interlinking means .

The vertical extensions can be inter connected with a horizontal cross piece A for withstanding the force of impact from heavier mooring lines thereby providing greater stability as shown in . This figure also shows the position of the restraining member with respect to a mooring line .

As will be appreciated the mooring line restraining device of the invention can incorporate one or more magnetic holding devices of appropriate type design and strength commensurate with the size and type of the mooring lines. The design of the mooring line restraining device has the flexibility of allowing the choice of one two or more magnetic holding devices as supporting means as would be required for providing an acceptable degree of safety for the mooring crew for the type and size of the mooring lines in each case. As an example of such a sturdier mooring line device reference is made to which illustrates a plan view of a mooring line restraining device having two restraining members mounted on a three limbed structure B supported by three magnetic holding devices as the three supporting means. This design can be employed to ensure protection from toppling from the impact of snapping back of heavier mooring lines.

The use of the magnetic devices for securely and strongly fixing these restraining devices along the mooring lines on the deck of a ship makes the use of the restraining devices very practical. The mooring line restraining devices are capable of being securely installed dismantled stored with great speed and ease. This is achieved through on off mode control of the magnetic holding devices. The secure locking of the magnetic holding devices in the ON position makes the operation foolproof since one glance at the positions of the locking levers can show if any of the restraining devices has not been secured. Furthermore these restraining devices can be securely stored in the designated place in a locked position and would not require any additional means to prevent them from being thrown around and thus cause danger. The inherent flexibility and simplicity of operation of the mooring line restraining device of the invention enables the mooring crew to quickly install and operate these in an environment of adequate safety.

When a mooring line breaks under great tension it snaps back with very large kinetic energy. Therefore in order to be able to effectively provide protection in such a situation the mooring line restraining devices must possess a capability to withstand the force of impact. This can be achieved a by absorbing part of the kinetic energy at the time of impact b by minimizing the force of impact and c by designing the mooring line restraining devices taking benefit of mechanical advantage by increasing the torque arm of the holding force of the magnet compared to that of the impact force of a snapped line whereby a smaller holding force can prevent the toppling over of the restrainer from a much larger impact force of the snapped line.

In particular embodiments for greater safety the vertical member extending upwardly from the base of the restraining member device is provided with cushioning means for minimizing the force of impact from the momentum of a snapped mooring line. Preferably as described earlier the cushioning means could include a damping mechanism a layer of energy absorbing material a pre loaded spring a shock absorber an auxiliary co acting counter weight or inertial mechanism or a combination of any of these. Absorption of energy can be achieved by incorporating dampers and or energy absorbing materials. One embodiment of a mooring line restraining device having a layer of energy absorbing material disposed on the impact face of the restraining member is shown in . These materials have micro structures enabling absorption of the bulk of energy of any impacting object and can greatly reduce the force of impact.

Attaching a suitably hinged auxiliary mass that would detach on impact and take away a part of the energy of the snapped line provides another option for limiting the force of impact on the mooring line restraining devices. Examples of a mooring line restraining devices incorporating an auxiliary hinged mass attached to the support member through the hinge are shown in and . When a snapped mooring line impacts the restraining member this mass would move away and would take a share of the energy of the impact thus reducing the force of impact.

The force of impact due to the momentum of the snapped mooring line would be determined by the rate of change of momentum during the impact. Thus for minimizing the force on the mooring line restraining devices the duration of the impact has to be increased. This is achieved by incorporating a degree of flexibility in the mooring line restraining devices. For cases where the impact force is estimated to be small it can be achieved by the flexibility of the substantially vertical member of the restraining device. However for heavier lines springs of appropriate strength and flexibility would have to be incorporated. Therefore in such cases the mooring line restraining devices would have to incorporate a number of different shock or impact absorbing means such as a layer of energy absorbing material shock absorbing means an auxiliary co acting counter weight or inertial mechanism selected in accordance with the estimated momentum and kinetic energy of the mooring line in each case. Accordingly the holding power of the magnetic holding devices the design and strength of the structure and the various elements employed for minimizing the force of impact of a snapped mooring line would have to be carefully selected.

Another embodiment of a mooring line restraining device incorporating the combination of a damper and a shock absorber is shown in . The restraining member is free to slide as shown and the force of impact of a snapped mooring line on it is kept within limits by the damper and the shock absorber . In this embodiment the horizontal structural member also acts as a base cum support means.

The shock absorbers can be of any appropriate size and type. The preferred shock absorbers for use in the invention are mechanical material hydraulic magnetic or magneto rheological in that order.

A mooring line restraining device can be provided with a combination of several cushioning means. One such mooring line restraining device incorporating a damper a shock absorber a hinged mass and a layer of energy absorbing material is shown in . The restraining member is free to slide and the impact force of a snapped mooring line is kept within limits by the combined action of all of these cushioning means.

An example of a mooring line restraining device incorporating a flexible restraining member is shown in . In this figure a flexible restraining member is mounted on a frame free to slide in slots provided on an appropriately contoured structural member . The impact force is kept within limits by the action of the shock absorber and the flexibility of the restraining member . The structural member also functions as the base cum support means. The mooring line restraining device is fixed and held in a desired position on the deck of the ship by the magnetic holding device .

In order to reduce the effective size of the snap back zones the mooring line restraining devices of the invention are arranged strategically on the deck of a ship along the path of a mooring line. In practice the mooring line restraining devices of the invention are placed alternately on either side of the mooring lines on the deck of a ship and interlinked. Such an assembly of the mooring line restraining devices of the invention would confine any snapped mooring line within a narrow region in the vicinity of the pre snap orientation of the mooring line during mooring operations on a ship thus greatly reduce the danger to the mooring crew.

The mooring line restraining devices disposed around the mooring lines are provided means to be interlinked. An array comprising a series of mooring line restraining devices of the invention placed alternately on either side of a mooring line and interlinked by linking means is shown in . The preferred linking means comprises rods and pipes which link the supporting means of the adjacent or alternate mooring line restraining devices. Such interconnected array of mooring line restraining devices of the invention forms a very strong barrier capable of confining a snapped mooring line within a narrow region thereby restricting the extent of the danger area.

The speed of installation and dismantling the mooring line restraining devices is of vital importance in mooring operations. Accordingly the mooring line restraining devices to be placed on either side of the mooring line have a symmetrical configuration and thus are identical. This feature of the design of the mooring line restraining devices of the proposed invention ensures that there is no distinction between the restraining devices to be placed on either side of the mooring lines thus eliminating any possibility of mix up or confusion while deploying these on the deck of a ship or while storing them.

For mooring lines in the vicinity of the bitts or pedestals etc. mooring line restraining devices incorporating magnetic holding devices of larger holding strength would be required. These would only come into play in situations when the lines either jump slip off these fixtures or in case of their failure thus providing additional safety.

The mooring line restraining devices of the present invention are the first and only one means of its kind proposed for enhancing safety of mooring operations. By providing a structural means to be positioned along a mooring line these devices constitute a giant leap forward in greatly reducing the danger to the mooring crew from the whiplash of any snapped mooring line by confining such lines within a narrow well defined region. These devices are portable so that they can be positioned around the mooring line as required in any situation. Furthermore these devices are capable of being fixed firmly to the deck of a ship in the desired locations.

In preferred embodiments the mooring line restraining device of the invention can additionally incorporate one or more cushioning means for softening the force of impact of a snapped mooring line. Such device are also provided with interlinking means for interlinking with similar devices.

The mooring line restraining devices of the present invention can be periodically tested for their efficacy on the ship itself by the ship s personnel without any additional training or requiring any specialized tools instruments or equipment. They have a long life and require minimal maintenance. They are capable of efficient functioning in different climatic conditions unaffected by storm wind heat rain or snow.

Installation of the mooring line restraining devices along the mooring lines as described above would effectively reduce the danger to the crew of a ship from the majority of serious mooring line related accidents on ships. The recommended number of the mooring line restraining devices and their required holding strength for any ship would depend on the relevant data like the number height material type size and location of mooring lines.

All documents cited in the description are incorporated herein by reference. The present invention is not to be limited in scope by the specific embodiments and examples which are intended as illustration of a number of aspects of the scope of this invention. Those skilled in the art will know or to be able to ascertain using no more than routine experimentation many equivalents to the specific embodiments of the invention described herein.

It is to be noted that the present invention is susceptible to modifications adaptations and changes by those skilled in the art. Such variant embodiments employing the concepts and features of this invention are intended to be within the scope of the present invention which will be further set forth under the claims.

