---

title: Selection of sandbox for initiating application
abstract: Methods and devices selecting a sandbox for initiating an application are described. In one aspect a method includes: providing within a hybrid record access application, a selectable option to access an attachment associated with a record, the record being associated with one of a plurality of sandboxes, the hybrid record access application configured to access records associated with the plurality of sandboxes, the plurality of sandboxes configured to prevent data from moving between different sandboxes; and initiating within the sandbox associated with the record, an application to access the attachment when selection of the selectable option is received.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08904550&OS=08904550&RS=08904550
owner: Blackberry Limited
number: 08904550
owner_city: Waterloo, Ontario
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20120627
---
The present application relates to electronic device security and more particularly to the security of files on electronic devices that may be used in different operational contexts.

Users sometimes carry more than one electronic device so that they may use different electronic devices for different aspects of their lives. For example they may carry both a personal electronic device for personal use and may carry a work issued electronic device for work related use. Carrying multiple electronic devices which have overlapping capabilities is inefficient. Thus users may wish to be able to use a single electronic device for both personal and work purposes.

Employers may also benefit when employees are permitted to use a single electronic device for both personal and work purposes. For example when employees connect their personal electronic device to work related systems the personal electronic device may then be used for work purposes allowing the employer to benefit from increased productivity associated with the use of the electronic device without having to finance the purchase of the electronic device. Thus shared electronic devices may be advantageous for both employees and employers. However employers are often concerned about maintaining the integrity and security of work related files when allowing electronic devices to be used for both work and personal purposes.

Sandbox techniques have been used to allow electronic devices to be used in different operational contexts. Sandboxing maintains a strict separation between business and personal data and applications. Conventionally such techniques require manual selection and switching between the different operating contexts.

In one example embodiment the present application describes a method that includes providing within a hybrid record access application a selectable option to access an attachment associated with a record the record being associated with one of a plurality of sandboxes the hybrid record access application configured to access records associated with the plurality of sandboxes the plurality of sandboxes configured to prevent data from moving between different sandboxes and initiating within the sandbox associated with the record an application to access the attachment when selection of the selectable option is received.

In another example embodiment the present application describes an electronic device. The electronic device includes a display and a memory storing records associated with a plurality of sandboxes. The sandboxes are configured such that data is prevented from moving between different sandboxes. In electronic device further includes a processor coupled with the display and the memory. The processor is configured to provide within a hybrid record access application a selectable option to access an attachment associated with a record the record being associated with one of a plurality of sandboxes the hybrid record access application configured to access records associated with the plurality of sandboxes and initiate within the sandbox associated with the record an application to access the attachment when selection of the selectable option is received.

In yet another example embodiment the present application describes a processor readable storage medium comprising processor executable instruction which when executed cause a processor to provide within a hybrid record access application a selectable option to access an attachment associated with a record the record being associated with one of a plurality of sandboxes the hybrid record access application configured to access records associated with the plurality of sandboxes and initiate within the sandbox associated with the record an application to access the attachment when selection of the selectable option is received.

Other example embodiments of the present disclosure will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art from a review of the following detailed description in conjunction with the drawings.

Example embodiments of the present disclosure are not limited to any particular operating system electronic device architecture server architecture or computer programming language.

Reference is first made to which illustrates an example electronic device . In the illustrated example embodiment the electronic device is a communication device such as a mobile communication device. In at least some example embodiments the electronic device is a two way communication device having data and voice communication capabilities and the capability to communicate with other computer systems for example via the Internet. Depending on the functionality provided by the electronic device in various example embodiments the electronic device may be a multiple mode communication device configured for data and voice communication a mobile telephone such as a smart phone a tablet computer such as a slate computer an electronic book reader a wearable computer such as a watch a PDA personal digital assistant or a computer system.

A smartphone is a mobile phone which offers more advanced computing capabilities than a basic non smartphone cellular phone. For example a smartphone may have an ability to run third party applications which are stored on the smartphone.

A tablet computer which may also be referred to as a tablet is an electronic device which is generally larger than a mobile phone such as a smartphone or personal digital assistant. Many mobile phones or personal digital assistants are designed to be pocket sized. That is mobile phones or personal digital assistants are generally small enough to be carried by a person easily often in a shirt or pant pocket while tablet computers are larger and may not fit within pant pockets. For example many tablet computers have a height which is seven inches 7 or more. In some example embodiments the tablet computer may be a slate computer. A slate computer is a tablet computer which does not include a dedicated keyboard. A slate computer may allow for text input through the use of a virtual keyboard or an external keyboard which connects to the slate computer via a wired or wireless connection.

In at least some embodiments the electronic device is a handheld electronic device. A handheld electronic device is an electronic device which is sufficiently small to be held in one or more hands of a user. The term handheld electronic device includes smartphones and may also include tablet computers. In at least some embodiments the handheld electronic device may be sufficiently small to be held in a single hand of a user. For example the handheld electronic device may be a palm sized device which is sized to be held in the palm of a user s hand. From the description which follows it will be appreciated that the techniques and methods described herein may be used in electronic devices having limited display capabilities.

The electronic device includes a housing not shown which houses components of the electronic device . The internal components of the electronic device are constructed on a printed circuit board PCB . The electronic device includes a controller including at least one processor such as a microprocessor which controls the overall operation of the electronic device . The processor interacts with device subsystems such as a wireless communication subsystem for exchanging radio frequency signals with a wireless network to perform communication functions. The processor interacts with additional device subsystems including one or more input interfaces such as a keyboard one or more control buttons a camera one or more microphones and or a touch sensitive overlay associated with a touchscreen display etc. flash memory random access memory RAM read only memory ROM auxiliary input output I O subsystems a data port which may be a serial data port such as a Universal Serial Bus USB data port one or more output interfaces such as a display one or more speakers or other output interfaces a short range communication subsystem and other device subsystems generally designated as . Some of the subsystems shown in perform communication related functions whereas other subsystems may provide resident or on device functions.

One or more of the input interfaces may be configured for receiving user input to allow a user to interact with the electronic device . Such input interfaces may for example allow a user to interact with a graphical user interface provided on the electronic device . Instructions commands or other forms of input may be received by the electronic device via the input interfaces. For example the input interfaces may allow a user to interact with one or more interface elements displayed on a graphical user interface of the display .

Such input interfaces may take a variety of forms. For example any one or combination of the following input interfaces may be included on the electronic device and used for receiving user input a touchscreen display a control button a trackball trackpad or optical input device a keyboard a camera which may be used for example to detect gesture based input an orientation or acceleration sensor such as an accelerometer which may be used for example to detect gesture based input performed by moving the electronic device and or a microphone which may be used for example to detect voice based commands . It will be appreciated that the foregoing list of input interfaces is not exhaustive and that other input interfaces may be used instead of or in addition to any of the interfaces described above.

As noted previously the electronic device may include a touch sensitive display which may be referred to as a touchscreen or a touchscreen display . The touchscreen display may be constructed using a touch sensitive input surface connected to an electronic controller. The touch sensitive input surface overlays the touchscreen display and may be referred to as a touch sensitive overlay. The touch sensitive overlay and the electronic controller provide a touch sensitive input interface and the processor interacts with the touch sensitive overlay via the electronic controller. That is the touchscreen display acts as both an input interface and an output interface .

In some embodiments the electronic device may communicate with any one of a plurality of fixed transceiver base stations of the wireless network within its geographic coverage area. The electronic device may send and receive communication signals over the wireless network after the required network registration or activation procedures have been completed.

In some example embodiments the auxiliary input output I O subsystems may include an external communication link or interface for example an Ethernet connection. The electronic device may include other wireless communication interfaces for communicating with other types of wireless networks for example a wireless network such as an orthogonal frequency division multiplexed OFDM network.

In the example embodiment illustrated the electronic device also includes a memory module which may be flash memory and a memory module interface . The memory module may be removable from the electronic device . Network access may be associated with a subscriber or user of the electronic device via the memory module which may be a Subscriber Identity Module SIM card for use in a GSM network or other type of memory module for use in the relevant wireless network. The memory module may be inserted in or connected to the memory module interface of the electronic device .

The electronic device may store data in an erasable persistent memory which in one example embodiment is the flash memory . In various example embodiments the data may include service data having information required by the electronic device to establish and maintain communication with the wireless network . The data may also include user application data including one or more records . The records may for example include email messages address book and contact information calendar and schedule information notepad documents image files and other commonly stored user information stored on the electronic device by its user and other data.

The data stored in the persistent memory e.g. flash memory of the electronic device may be organized at least partially into a number of databases or data stores each containing data items of the same data type or associated with the same application. For example email messages contact records and task items may be stored in individual databases within the memory of the electronic device .

At least some of the records may include an attachment . By way of example in some embodiments a record may be an email message or another type of electronic message that includes a file as an attachment . Electronic messages sometimes include attachments to allow files to be transferred from one location person device or account to another location person device or account.

By way of further example a record may be a calendar entry that includes a file as an attachment . Calendar entries may for example include attachments representing data related to an event associated with the calendar entry. For example content such as a presentation document or notes may be included in the calendar entry to allow such content to be discussed when the event represented by the calendar entry occurs. For example the attachment may be an agenda for a meeting. By way of further example an attachment included in a calendar entry may represent transportation information related to a calendar entry for example directions to the event.

Accordingly records associated with the electronic device may include one or more attachments . An attachment may represent content or may link to such content for example the attachment may provide a link to online content e.g. it may be a Uniform Resource Locator URL .

Such content may for example be a video such as for example an MPEG video WMV video AVI video etc. audio such as for example an MP3 audio file a WAV audio file a RealAudio audio file etc. a word processor document such as a Microsoft Word file etc. a spreadsheet such as a Microsoft Excel file an electronic book such as an e book in an EPUB MOBI or other file format a presentation such as a Microsoft PowerPoint presentation a Portable Document Format PDF document a note such as a text based note prepared using a note taking application or an image such as a raster vector or 3D graphic image including for example a JPEG file TIFF file etc. . The attachment may represent other types of content apart from those types specifically listed above.

The records having the attachments may be received at the electronic device via one or more of the input interfaces or via communication subsystems such as the communication subsystem or the short range communication subsystem .

Files and non hybrid applications that access the files can be classified according to a workspace in which the files and or applications are restricted. The workspace can be one of a plurality of partitioned workspaces in which each workspace is separate from each of the other workspaces such that a tightly controlled set of resources for controlling entities such as but not limited to data files network connections and hardware and running applications that access the entities provides a security mechanism for separating the launching and running of programs and entities in the different workspaces. Each workspace is generally referred to as a sandbox and may also be referred to as a perimeter. Rule sets can be implemented to provide full control over what processes are started spawned by other applications allowed to access entities such as but not limited to data files network connections and hardware or allowed to inject code into other applications. Sandboxing provides a security system where data is prevented from movement between the different areas. More specifically sandboxes and other components and software on the electronic device may be configured such that data is prevented from being moved between different sandboxes .

The sandboxes generally allow the electronic device to be used in different operational contexts while maintaining file security. For example the electronic device may be used for both personal use and also for business use. Business files may however be kept separately from personal files e.g. business files may be kept in a corporate sandbox and personal files may be kept in a personal sandbox and the sandboxes may be walled off from one another so that file transfers between the sandboxes are prevented or controlled .

Accordingly in at least some embodiments there can be multiple modes or workspaces provided by the electronic device . A non hybrid application running in one sandbox can access entities such as but not limited to data files network connections and hardware in the sandbox in which it is running but can be restricted from accessing and operating on entities such as but not limited to data files network connections and hardware in another sandbox.

Accordingly data may be securely separated into sandboxes . A non hybrid application may separately operate on the data in a sandbox in which that application is running but may not access data in another sandbox.

For example the system may be partitioned into two workspaces as secure workspaces i.e. sandboxes such as a corporate sandbox and a personal sandbox. The data and files in the corporate sandbox can be strictly separated from non hybrid applications or programs running the personal sandbox. This secure separation provides a security mechanism that allows a system to operate in numerous modes. The establishment of a secure separation to provide a security mechanism that allows a system to operate in numerous modes is not limited to two sandboxes and can be implemented for three or more sandboxes.

Accordingly as illustrated in the memory may be partitioned into a plurality of sandboxes . In the embodiment illustrated the memory is partitioned into a first sandbox and a second sandbox . Each sandbox may be associated with separate data . More particularly each sandbox may be associated with a different record or set of records. For example in the example illustrated the first sandbox stores a first record having a first attachment and the second sandbox stores a second record having a second attachment . For example in at least some embodiments one of the sandboxes may be associated with business records e.g. it may be a corporate sandbox and one of the sandboxes may be associated with personal records e.g. it may be a personal sandbox .

The data port may be used for synchronization with a user s host computer system not shown . The data port enables a user to set preferences through an external device or software application and extends the capabilities of the electronic device by providing for information or software downloads to the electronic device other than through the wireless network . The alternate download path may for example be used to load an encryption key onto the electronic device through a direct reliable and trusted connection to thereby provide secure device communication.

In some example embodiments the electronic device is provided with a service routing application programming interface API which provides an application with the ability to route traffic through a serial data i.e. USB or Bluetooth Bluetooth is a registered trademark of Bluetooth SIG Inc. connection to the host computer system using standard connectivity protocols. When a user connects their electronic device to the host computer system via a USB cable or Bluetooth connection traffic that was destined for the wireless network is automatically routed to the electronic device using the USB cable or Bluetooth connection. Similarly any traffic destined for the wireless network is automatically sent over the USB cable Bluetooth connection to the host computer system for processing.

The electronic device includes or is connectable to a power source. In the embodiment illustrated the power source is a battery such as a rechargeable battery that may be charged for example through charging circuitry coupled to a battery interface such as the serial data port . The battery provides electrical power to at least some of the electrical circuitry in the electronic device and the battery interface provides a mechanical and electrical connection for the battery . The battery interface is coupled to a regulator not shown which provides power V to the circuitry of the electronic device .

The short range communication subsystem is an additional optional component which provides for communication between the electronic device and different systems or devices which need not necessarily be similar devices. For example the short range communication subsystem may include an infrared device and associated circuits and components or a wireless bus protocol compliant communication mechanism such as a Bluetooth communication module to provide for communication with similarly enabled systems and devices.

A pre determined set of applications that controls basic device operations including data and possibly voice communication applications may be installed on the electronic device during or after manufacture. Additional applications and or upgrades to an operating system or software applications may also be loaded onto the electronic device through the wireless network the auxiliary I O subsystem the data port the short range communication subsystem or other suitable device subsystems . The downloaded programs or code modules may be permanently installed for example written into the program memory i.e. the flash memory or written into and executed from the RAM for execution by the processor at runtime.

In some example embodiments the electronic device may provide two principal modes of communication a data communication mode and a voice communication mode. In the data communication mode a received data signal such as a text message an email message or a web page download will be processed by the communication subsystem and input to the processor for further processing. For example a downloaded web page may be further processed by a browser application or an email message may be processed by the email messaging application and output to the touchscreen display . A user of the electronic device may also compose data items such as email messages for example using the input interfaces such as the touchscreen display . These composed items may be transmitted through the communication subsystem over the wireless network .

In the voice communication mode the electronic device provides telephony functions and operates as a typical cellular phone. The overall operation is similar to the data communication mode except that the received signals would be output to the speaker and signals for transmission would be generated by a transducer such as the microphone . The telephony functions are provided by a combination of software firmware i.e. a voice communication module and hardware i.e. the microphone the speaker and input devices . Alternative voice or audio I O subsystems such as a voice message recording subsystem may also be implemented on the electronic device . Although voice or audio signal output is typically accomplished primarily through the speaker the touchscreen display may also be used to provide an indication of the identity of a calling party duration of a voice call or other voice call related information.

The processor operates under stored program control and executes software modules stored in memory such as persistent memory for example in the flash memory . As illustrated in the software modules include operating system software and software applications such as one or more hybrid record access applications and or one or more attachment access applications .

A hybrid application is a trusted application that is capable of and permitted to concurrently access files from more than one sandbox . That is the hybrid application is permitted to access data from a plurality of sandboxes within a single instance of the hybrid application. The hybrid application may access files from a sandbox in which the hybrid application was initiated and may also access files from another sandbox . The ability to access files from a plurality of sandboxes at the same time may be provided to the hybrid application by higher level system components such as a sandbox management application or module not shown which manages the sandboxes and administers a set of access rules for the sandboxes. The sandbox management application or module may for example be provided by the operating system .

Accordingly a hybrid record access application may be provided on the electronic device . The hybrid record access application is an application that is configured and permitted to access records associated with a plurality of sandboxes . For example the hybrid record access application is an application that is configured to access records from a first sandbox and to concurrently access records from a second sandbox . More particularly a single instance of the hybrid record access application may access records from both the first and second sandbox concurrently.

In some embodiments the hybrid record application may be an electronic messaging application such as an email application. In such embodiments the electronic messaging application may be configured to access records that are electronic messages such as email messages. The electronic messaging application may provide for the creation of electronic messages the display of electronic messages such as received electronic message composing and sending replies to electronic messages forwarding electronic messages and or other functions associated with electronic messages not specifically listed herein. The hybrid record application may be permitted to concurrently access electronic messages associated with a plurality of sandboxes . One or more of these electronic messages may have an attachment associated therewith. For example an email message may include an attachment.

The electronic messaging application may be configured for use with other types of electronic messages instead of or in addition to email messages. For example in at least some embodiments the electronic messaging application may be configured for sending and or receiving text messages such as short message service SMS messages instant messages and or social networking messages i.e. electronic messages which may be transmitted via a social networking service such as Facebook or Linkedin . In at least some embodiments the electronic messaging application may be a unified messaging application that is configured to access different types of messages from a common interface.

The electronic messaging application may be configured to operate in at least one operating mode in which electronic messages associated with a plurality of sandboxes are displayed concurrently. For example in one operating mode the hybrid electronic messaging application may display a list that includes references to electronic messages associated with a plurality of sandboxes . Such a list may be referred to as an integrated record list . The hybrid electronic messaging application may allow an electronic message to be selected from the list. Such selection may cause the electronic message to be displayed more fully. In at least some embodiments when the electronic message is displayed more fully a selectable option to access an attachment associated with the electronic message may be displayed. Activation of the selectable option may cause the attachment access application to be initiated. As will be described in greater detail below the attachment access application may be initiated within the sandbox associated with the record that included the attachment.

In some embodiments the hybrid record application may be a calendar application. The calendar application is an application that is configured to display dates and days of the week. The calendar application may be configured to access records such as calendar entries. Calendar entries are records that are associated with the calendar and that have timing information specifying when the events associated with such calendar entries are to occur. For example calendar entries may specify a date and or time associated with an event. By way of example and not limitation the event may be a meeting.

When the calendar application is a hybrid application it may concurrently access calendar entries associated with a plurality of sandboxes . For example the calendar application may in some embodiments display a hybrid calendar which includes calendar entries from a first sandbox and also calendar entries from a second sandbox . One or more of these calendar entries may have an attachment associated therewith.

The hybrid calendar application may allow a calendar entry to be selected from an at a glance display and or from a reminder interface. The at a glance display may provide an overview of calendar entries associated with a particular time period such as a day week or month. A reminder interface may be a display screen that reminds a user of upcoming calendar entries. That is the reminder interface may act as an alarm for the calendar entries. Selection of a calendar entry from the at a glance display or from the reminder interface may cause the calendar entry to be displayed more fully. In at least some embodiments when the calendar entry is displayed more fully a selectable option to access an attachment associated with the calendar entry may be displayed. Activation of the selectable option may cause the attachment access application to be initiated. As will be described in greater detail below the attachment access application may be initiated within the sandbox associated with the record e.g. the calendar entry that included the attachment.

The attachment access application is an application that may be used for accessing the attachment. The attachment access application may be a non hybrid application. Thus in the present example a single instance of the attachment access application is permitted to operate within a single sandbox. For example the attachment access application may only store data within the sandbox in which the instance of the attachment access application is operating. That is the attachment access application may only store data within the sandbox in which the attachment access application is running. Similarly a single instance of the attachment access application may be configured and or permitted to only access data from one of the sandboxes . The single instance of the attachment access application may access data from the sandbox in which it is running but may not access data in other sandboxes.

The attachment access application may take a variety of forms. By way of example in some embodiments the attachment access application may be any one or more of the following a web browser which may be used when the attachment is web formatted document such as a Hypertext Markup Language HTML document or a link such as a URL to a web location a presentation application which may be used when the attachment is an electronic presentation such as a Powerpoint presentation a portable document file PDF viewer which may be used for accessing attachments that are PDF documents a word processing application such as a Documents to Go or Word application which may be used for accessing attachments that are word processing documents a media player such as an audio player video player or image viewer which may be used for accessing audio video or image attachments a calendar application which may be used for accessing attachments that represent calendar entries and or an address book application which may be used for accessing attachments that represent contact information such as a vCard . It will be appreciated that the attachment access application may take other forms in other embodiments and may be used to access other types of attachments. A plurality of attachment access applications will typically be used to allow a plurality of different types of attachments to be accessed. In such embodiments when the selectable option to access an attachment is selected an appropriate application for accessing that attachment may be selected and may be initiated.

Each of the software applications may include layout information defining the placement of particular fields and graphic elements e.g. text fields input fields icons etc. in the user interface i.e. the touchscreen display according to the application. In at least some example embodiments the software applications may include pre determined gesture information defining functionalities associated with the pre determined gestures received via the touchscreen display . For example a software application may determine a finger swiping movement i.e. a pre determined gesture on the touchscreen display as a scrolling function.

The software modules or parts thereof may be temporarily loaded into volatile memory such as the RAM . The RAM is used for storing runtime data variables and other types of data or information. Although specific functions are described for various types of memory this is merely one example and a different assignment of functions to types of memory could also be used.

The following discussion will refer to example methods . Reference will be made to various example display screens to facilitate understanding of the example methods. The methods may in at least some embodiments be performed by one or more applications or modules associated with the electronic device . For example the hybrid record access application the operating system and or another application stored in memory may contain processor executable instructions which when executed cause the processor of the electronic device to perform one or more of the methods described below. The processor readable instructions may be configured to cause the processor to generate one or more screens having the features described below.

Referring now to an example method of authorizing a hybrid application to access a plurality of sandboxes is illustrated. The features of the method will be discussed with reference to the example display screens of .

At a hybrid record access application selectively displays one or more records on a display of the electronic device . More particularly the hybrid record access application selectively displays one or more records associated with a first sandbox on the display . The hybrid record access application may display records associated with a sandbox that is currently active on the electronic device . The sandbox that is currently active may be the sandbox that was active when a request to launch the hybrid record access application was received. For example a request to launch the hybrid record access application may be received when a user selects an icon or other interface element associated with the hybrid record access application from a graphical user interface such as an icon grid provided on a display of the electronic device.

The hybrid record access application may at be prevented from displaying records associated with the second sandbox on the display . For example at the hybrid record access application may be prevented from displaying records associated with a sandbox that was not active when the request to launch the hybrid record access application was received.

In at least some embodiments the electronic device may be configured to provide a corporate sandbox associated with work related records and a personal sandbox associated with personal records. In at least some embodiments at records associated with the personal sandbox may be displayed while records associated with the corporate sandbox may be prevented from being displayed.

Referring now to an example display screen is illustrated. The example display screen may be provided by a hybrid record access application . The example display screen displays a first sandbox record list that includes a plurality of records associated with the first sandbox . In the example embodiment illustrated the first sandbox is a personal sandbox and the records are electronic messages and more particularly are email messages .

The display screen includes a selectable option to allow the hybrid record access application to access records associated with a second sandbox . In the example illustrated the selectable option identifies a locked state associated with the second sandbox i.e. it indicates to a user that the second sandbox is locked and also identifies the number of new records associated with the second sandbox e.g. it includes an indication of the number of unread records .

The selectable option to allow the hybrid record access application to access records associated with a second sandbox may be selected via an input interface associated with the electronic device . In the example illustrated the selectable option may be selected using a touchscreen display a hand may activate the selectable option with a tap or touch at an area of the display associated with the selectable option .

Referring now to in at least some embodiments selection of the selectable option to allow the hybrid record access application to access records associated with a second sandbox may cause a further display screen to be displayed on the display . The further display screen may include an authorization information input component . The authorization information input component is an interface element that is configured to receive authorization information associated with the second sandbox . The authorization information may for example be a password associated with the second sandbox . The authorization information may be input to the electronic device via one or more input interface associated with the electronic device . For example a keyboard which may be a physical keyboard or virtual keyboard may be used for inputting the authorization information. It will be appreciated that other methods may be used for receiving authorization information in other embodiments and that other types of authorization information may be used. For example in some embodiments biometric data may be used to authorize access to the second sandbox .

In the example embodiment illustrated the authorization information input component is overlaid on the display screen of . More particularly the authorization information input component is displayed over the first sandbox record list .

Referring again to at authorization information associated with the second sandbox may be received. Such authorization information may be received via the authorization information input component of the display screen of .

The received authorization information may be authenticated to ensure that the received authorization information is authorization information associated with the second sandbox . More particularly the received input may be compared with other authorization information securely stored in memory.

If the received authorization information is confirmed to be authentic e.g. if the received authorization information is in fact authorization information associated with the second sandbox then at the hybrid record access application displays one or more records associated with the second sandbox together with the record associated with the first sandbox .

That is in response to receiving the authorization information associated with the second sandbox the hybrid record access application displays records associated with the second sandbox together with the records associated with the first sandbox.

Referring now to an example of a display screen that displays records associated with the second sandbox together with the records associated with the first sandbox is illustrated. The example display screen may be provided by a hybrid record access application . The example display screen displays an integrated record list that includes a plurality of records associated with a plurality of sandboxes. In the example embodiment illustrated the first sandbox is a personal sandbox and the records associated with the first sandbox are electronic messages and more particularly are email messages . In the example embodiment illustrated the second sandbox is a corporate sandbox and the records associated with the second sandbox are electronic messages and more particularly are email messages .

In the example illustrated the records associated with the first sandbox and the records associated with the second sandbox are integrated into a common list. In one example the order of the list depends on metadata associated with the records and does not depend on the sandbox associated with the records . That is a record will have a position in the list irrespective of whether the record is associated with the first sandbox or the second sandbox . The list may therefore intermingle records from the first sandbox with records from the second sandbox .

By way of example in the embodiment illustrated the records are sorted in chronological order according to a time associated with the records. In the example illustrated more recent records are displayed higher in the integrated record list than older records. It will however be appreciated that the integrated record list could be sorted based on other metadata associated with the records such as for example the subjects associated with the records or senders or recipients associated with the records.

In the example illustrated the selectable option to allow the hybrid record access application to access records associated with a second sandbox is not included in the display screen .

Referring now to a method of accessing an attachment associated with a record is illustrated. The method may in at least some embodiments be performed following the method of .

At the method includes providing a hybrid record access application . As noted above the hybrid record access application is configured to access records associated with a plurality of sandboxes within a single instance of the hybrid record access application . The sandboxes are described in greater detail above. As discussed more fully above the sandboxes may be configured such that data is prevented from moving between different sandboxes. For example data accessed from within one sandbox may not be saved to another sandbox . For example when a user accesses a document from a first sandbox any attempts to save that document e.g. by selecting a save as option will allow the document to be saved to locations within the first sandbox but not to locations within the second sandbox .

As further noted above the sandboxes may be configured such that a non hybrid application such as an application to access an attachment to a record is permitted to store data to the sandbox in which the application was initiated but is prevented from storing data in another sandbox.

In at least some embodiments providing a hybrid record access application may include for example steps of initiating launching and or running the hybrid record access application from the electronic device . In at least some embodiments the hybrid record access application may be launched in response to the receipt of a request to launch the hybrid record access application . For example a request to launch the hybrid record access application may be received when a user selects an icon or other interface element associated with the hybrid record access application from a graphical user interface such as an icon grid provided on a display of the electronic device.

In at least some embodiments when the hybrid record access application is run various display screens associated with the hybrid record access application may be displayed on the display associated with the electronic device .

The hybrid record access application is configured to be operated in at least one operating mode in which it is capable of accessing both records associated with a first sandbox and records associated with a second sandbox . For example the hybrid record access application may provide for the display of an integrated record list of the type described above.

As noted above in some embodiments the hybrid record access application is an electronic messaging application which may be associated with and access records that are electronic messages. The hybrid record access application may in other embodiments be a calendar application. In such embodiments the records may be calendar entries.

At a selectable option to access an attachment associated with a record may be provided within the hybrid record access application . The record may be associated with the first sandbox or the second sandbox . The selectable option may for example be a selectable option to view open or otherwise access the attachment.

Referring now to an example display screen having a selectable option to access an attachment is illustrated. In the embodiment illustrated the attachment is associated with a record that is associated with the first sandbox . The record is in the example illustrated an email message . The example display screen of may for example be displayed in response to selection of a record displayed in the integrated record list of .

The display screen may be provided by the hybrid record access application . In the example illustrated the display screen includes an attachment preview window which may be used for previewing the attachment.

The selectable option to access an attachment may be selected via an input interface associated with the electronic device . In the example illustrated the selectable option may be selected using a touchscreen display a hand may activate the selectable option with a tap or touch at an area of the display associated with the selectable option . Other input methods may be used in other embodiments.

Accordingly referring again to at a selection of the selectable option to access the attachment may be received. At in response to receiving selection of the selectable option the hybrid record access application may initiate an application to access the attachment within the sandbox associated with the record . That is an attachment access application which is a non hybrid application may be initiated launched and or run in the sandbox that is associated with the record to which the attachment is attached. The attachment access application is a non hybrid application and may be configured to access data associated with the sandbox where the application is initiated and which is prevented from accessing data associated with another sandbox.

In at least some embodiments at the hybrid record access application may initiate the application to access the attachment in the sandbox associated with the record associated with the attachment irrespective of the sandbox that was active at the time the selection of the selectable option was received at . That is the selection of a sandbox which will be used for accessing the attachment does not depend on the sandbox that was active at the time the selection was received. For example if the attachment is associated with a corporate record i.e. a record associated with a corporate sandbox the application to access the attachment will operate in the corporate sandbox even if the electronic device was operating in a personal mode in which the personal sandbox is the active sandbox at the time the selection was received. For example if the hybrid record access application was initially launched when the electronic device was operating in a personal sandbox the electronic device may continue to operate in a personal sandbox mode. However when a selectable option to access an attachment associated with a record stored in the corporate sandbox is received an attachment access application may be run in the corporate sandbox.

Accordingly in at least some embodiments at the hybrid record access application may identify the sandbox associated with the record to which the attachment is attached and may run the application to access the attachment in the identified sandbox.

Referring now to an example of a display screen of an attachment access application is illustrated. In the example illustrated the display screen is provided by an image viewing application and the attachment represents an image. In the example illustrated the attachment access application is operating in the first sandbox since the attachment is associated with a record associated with the first sandbox .

The example display screen includes a selectable edit option . The selectable edit option may be used for receiving instructions to initiate editing of the attachment.

The example illustrated also includes a selectable share option . The selectable share option allows the attachment to be shared for example with other users applications devices or systems. By way of example the selectable share option may be an option to email the attachment

In at least some embodiments the selectable share option is configured to operate based on the sandbox in which the attachment access application is operating. For example different sharing options may be provided when the attachment access application is operating in the first sandbox than are provided when the attachment access application is operating in the second sandbox . For example when the attachment access application is operating in a personal sandbox a user may be permitted to email the attachment using a personal email account and not a corporate email account and when the attachment access application is operating in a corporate sandbox a user may be permitted to email the attachment using a corporate email account and not a personal email account.

The example illustrated also includes a selectable store option . The selectable store option allows the attachment to be stored in a specified location in memory of the electronic device . In at least some embodiments the store option may allow the attachment to be stored in the sandbox in which the attachment access application is operating but not the other sandbox . For example if the attachment access application is operating in the first sandbox it may be permitted to store the attachment in the first sandbox but not the second sandbox .

While the present application is primarily described in terms of methods a person of ordinary skill in the art will understand that the present application is also directed to various apparatus such as an electronic device including a mobile communications device. The electronic device includes components for performing at least some of the aspects and features of the described methods which may be by way of hardware components such as the memory and or the processor software or any combination of the two or in any other manner. Moreover an article of manufacture for use with the apparatus such as a pre recorded storage device or other similar computer readable storage medium including program instructions recorded thereon or a computer data signal carrying computer readable program instructions may direct an apparatus to facilitate the practice of the described methods. For example a compute readable storage medium may include computer executable instructions for performing one or more of the methods described herein. It is understood that such apparatus and articles of manufacture also come within the scope of the present application.

The term computer readable medium or computer readable storage medium as used herein means any medium which can store instructions for use by or execution by a computer or other computing device including but not limited to a portable computer diskette a hard disk drive HDD a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or flash memory an optical disc such as a Compact Disc CD Digital Versatile Disc DVD or Blu ray Disc and a solid state storage device e.g. NAND flash or synchronous dynamic RAM SDRAM .

Example embodiments of the present application are not limited to any particular operating system system architecture mobile device architecture server architecture or computer programming language.

The various example embodiments presented above are merely examples. Variations of the innovations described herein will be apparent to persons of ordinary skill in the art such variations being within the intended scope of the present application. In particular features from one or more of the above described example embodiments may be selected to create alternative example embodiments including a sub combination of features which may not be explicitly described above. In addition features from one or more of the above described example embodiments may be selected and combined to create alternative example embodiments including a combination of features which may not be explicitly described above. Features suitable for such combinations and sub combinations would be readily apparent to persons skilled in the art upon review of the present application as a whole. The subject matter described herein and in the recited claims intends to cover and embrace all suitable changes in technology.

