---

title: Tagging video content
abstract: A method includes identifying video content that includes an audiovisual component, receiving an identification of the audiovisual component, and receiving at least one component location of the audiovisual component in the video content. Each component location indicates a time and a screen position with which the audiovisual component is associated with in the video content. Component information associated with the audiovisual component is received. A video tag is generated based on the audiovisual component and the component information. The method includes populating one or more fields associated with the video tag based on the component information, the identification of the audiovisual component, and the at least one component location. The method also includes presenting the video tag to a user. The video tag is selectable to present the video content at the at least one component location.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08977104&OS=08977104&RS=08977104
owner: Verizon Patent and Licensing Inc.
number: 08977104
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120905
---
Video service providers currently provide multiple services and programs including cable television network television and video on demand to their customers. In some instances individual customers may receive combinations of these multiple services from a single video service provider. Video service providers manage relationships with their customers using customer accounts that correspond to the multiple services.

The following detailed description refers to the accompanying drawings. The same reference numbers in different drawings may identify the same or similar elements. Also the following detailed description is exemplary and explanatory only and is not restrictive of the invention as claimed.

Systems and or methods described herein may enable tagging of audiovisual components of video content that may be displayed at a user device. Audiovisual components such as objects person etc. may be identified at component locations in video content. A component location of the audio component may be temporal and or spatial position i.e. located at a particular time or over a range of time and or positions in the video content. A video tag may be determined based on the audiovisual component and applied to the video content in association with the identified audiovisual component. Tags may be saved or book marked by the end user to an associated account. Saved tags may send additional information to the end users specified communication method or device e.g. email address cellular communications device etc. .

Consistent with embodiments described herein a device associated with an end user may generate a video tag. Additionally video tags may be associated with particular sponsors and may include purchasing information on products found within video content.

As used herein the terms user consumer subscriber and or customer may be used interchangeably. Also the terms user end user consumer subscriber and or customer intended to be broadly interpreted to include a user device or a user of a user device.

Service provider network may collect generate and provide video content to subscribers of a video service. Video content may include for example encoded video content in any of a variety of formats including for example Multi view Video Coding MVC Moving Pictures Experts Group MPEG 2 transport stream TS MPEG 4 advanced video coding AVC H.264. Service provider network may also provide support services in environment including authentication authorization and billing of subscribers for particular video services.

Content provider may include one or more providers of video content. For example content provider may include a television network a cable television station a film distributor etc. Content provider may provide video content to content processing system in a variety of formats such as a baseband video signal MPEG video etc.

Content processing system may store and process video content. Content processing system may perform encoding operations on video content using for example public private keys. Content processing system may also perform transcoding operations on the video content. Content processing system may store video content in encrypted and or encoded form.

Content delivery system may provide video content instructions and or other information to home network and associated devices such as STB and user devices collectively referred to as user devices and individually as user device . In one implementation content delivery system may provide broadcast video content via a QAM based system that may be limited in capacity based on available bandwidth i.e. a number and or quality of channels may be limited based on the capacity of service provider network . In other implementations content delivery system may provide video content via adaptive coding modulation ACM .

Content delivery system may temporarily store and provide content that is the subject of a content request from user device and or STB . In one implementation access to content delivery system e.g. by STB and or user device may be restricted by a service provider that operates content delivery system . For example access to content delivery system may be restricted to particular users with particular subscription packages and enforced by for example password protection for a user device identifiers for user devices STB and or home network and or application identifiers e.g. residing on user devices STB and or portable media . Content delivery system may include implementation devices not shown such as a content server a policy management server a streaming device a router a content cache etc.

Video tagging server may provide video tags in association with audiovisual components of video content that may be displayed at user device and or television in association with STB . An audiovisual component is an image and or a sound that is separately identifiable in video content and may include objects persons dialogue music etc. A video tag is an identifier of a particular audiovisual component. The video tag may be visible in proximity to the audiovisual component on the screen of a displaying end user device e.g. TV or may include information provided in relation to an identified audiovisual component e.g. information may be provided when the user provides an indicator of interest in the audiovisual component . The video tag may include additional information regarding the associated audiovisual component. For example the video tag may include purchasing information etc. for the audiovisual component.

Video tagging server may receive video tag information for each specific audiovisual component from an administrator sponsor or end user e.g. from STB or an administrative user device not shown in environment . Each block of video tag information may be categorized by time and prioritized by relevance to the user e.g. determined by user profile previous tags applied by the user sponsor administrator a combination of rules provided by user administrator sponsor etc. . Each block of video tag information may consist of metadata such as a tag start time a tag end time a tagged by tag date tag time tag location a tag type e.g. biographical information shopping etc. tag custom e.g. searchable attributes of audiovisual component such as a weight a color a size based on user input a tag rating e.g. provided by an aggregation of ratings from preceding users a tag flag e.g. an identifier of possible objectionable material etc. Additionally video tags may include information provided in association with a sponsor such as a name of the sponsor a sponsor ID a sponsor uniform resource locator URL a promotional URL a sponsor category a sponsor image e.g. a small medium and or large image associated with the sponsor a sponsor rating etc.

According to one embodiment video tagging server may identify audiovisual components at spatial and or temporal locations hereinafter component locations within the video content i.e. the audiovisual component may be identified at a particular time and or screen location in the video content . For example video tagging server may perform image analysis e.g. based on a database of images of persons objects etc. and sound analysis of the video content to identify different audiovisual components on a frame by frame or scene by scene basis e.g. a name of an actor a type and brand of a car etc. . Video tagging server may identify a time and a screen location e.g. pixel location or pixel range at which the audiovisual component occurs.

Application server may provide one or more applications that may allow subscribers to browse purchase rent subscribe and or view video content. Application server may authenticate a user who desires to purchase rent or subscribe to video content. In one implementation the interactions between application server and STB or user device may be performed using the hypertext transfer protocol HTTP or the secure HTTP HTTPS . In another implementation the interactions between application server STB and user device may be performed using another type of protocol.

Profile server may store user profile information for users e.g. users of user devices . The user profile information may include various information regarding a user such as login information e.g. a user identifier and a password billing information address information types of services to which the user has subscribed a list of video content purchased by the user a list of video content rented by the user a list of channels or video content to which the user has subscribed a list of users associated with the user account ratings of video content by the user a user device identifier e.g. a media player identifier a mobile device identifier a set top box identifier a personal computer identifier for devices such as STB user device etc. In one implementation profile server may store video tag settings associated with the user. Application server may use the user profile information to authenticate a user or associated users and may update the user profile information based on the user s activity e.g. with the user s express permission .

License server may provide key and license management. License server may communicate with user devices and or STB directly or via application server . For example license server may receive a request from a STB for a license relating to video content that STB has downloaded. The license may include information regarding the type of use permitted by user device or STB e.g. a complementary application or content a purchase a rental limited shared usage or a subscription and a decryption key that permits STB to decrypt the video content or application. In one implementation the communications between license server and STB may be conducted over a secure channel may include public and private keys or may include other forms of secure communication.

Home network may include one or more devices that transmit requests to content delivery system video tagging server application server profile server and or license server and receive information from content delivery system video tagging server application server profile server and or license server . Home network may include for example one or more STBs televisions one or more user devices and or personal computers. Home network may also include other devices not shown such as additional media storage devices a home router a gateway e.g. an optical network terminal ONT etc.

Home network may connect to content delivery system video tagging server application server profile server license server access network and or other networks e.g. public network . In one implementation devices in home network may connect to content delivery system e.g. via access network to receive managed services e.g. such a multimedia content provided with a guaranteed quality of service QoS via a closed content distribution channel. The closed content distribution channel may be implemented through a subscription multimedia service providing network access through for example the gateway home router or a local set top box. Thus access to content delivery system may be restricted to particular users particular devices such as STBs user devices and or applications running on the devices.

STB may receive content from content delivery system and or an external network such as the Internet and output the content to TV and or user devices for display. For example STB may receive a range of channels from content delivery system via QAM. STB may output the content as on demand content and or live TV channels i.e. ongoing content that may not be available on an on demand basis . STB may receive content from an external network such as the Internet based on information provided via service provider network . For example STB may be directed to receive one or more channels via an Internet video feed. STB may include a component e.g. a cable card or a software application that plugs into a host device e.g. TVs and or other devices such as personal computers mobile telephones etc. that allows the host device to display content. STB may also be implemented as a home theater personal computer HTPC an optical disk player e.g. digital video disk DVD or Blu Ray disc player a cable card etc. STB may receive commands from other devices in environment such as a remote control not shown and user device . STB may include one or more digital video recorders DVRs that allow STB to record content and to playback the recorded content at a later time. In one embodiment STB may include a microphone and or a camera.

TV may include speakers as well as a display. TV may play content for example received from STB . While some embodiments described below may use TV to view content other embodiments may use any device e.g. a computer or a mobile phone to display provide content.

User device may include any device capable of communicating via a network such as home network and or access network . User device may include an interactive client interface such as a graphic user interface GUI and a transmitter capable of sending a remote signal to STB . User device may include digital rights management DRM functionality to retrieve security information e.g. decryption keys and decrypt protected content received from content delivery system . Examples of user device may include a mobile phone a tablet a personal computer or another device that may receive video program related items such as video program related applications and video program related content and provide the video program related items at user device .

Access network may provide customers with multimedia content provided for example by content delivery system . Access network may include a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN such as a cellular network a satellite network a fiber optic network a private WAN or a combination of the Internet and a private WAN etc. that is used to transport data. Although shown as a single element in access network may include a number of separate networks that function to provide services to home network . In one implementation access network may terminate at home network via an optical communication link such as an optical fiber provided to home network . In another possible implementation access network may terminate at home network via a coaxial cable. In still another implementation access network may terminate at home network via a wireless e.g. satellite connection.

Public network may include a WAN an intranet a telephone network e.g. the Public Switched Telephone Network or a combination of networks. Public network may include for example an untrusted network such as the Internet. Public network may further include transport and or network devices such as routers switches and or firewalls.

While shows a particular number and arrangement of networks and or devices in practice environment may include additional networks devices fewer networks devices different networks devices or differently arranged networks devices than are shown in . For example content delivery system may be implemented as multiple possibly distributed devices.

In implementations described herein a video tagging service may provide video tags for audiovisual components of video content provided at a user device or STB . The video tagging service may be supported by back end servers including video tagging server .

Bus may permit communication among the components of device . Processing unit may include one or more processors or microprocessors that interpret and execute instructions. In other implementations processing unit may be implemented as or include one or more application specific integrated circuits ASICs field programmable gate arrays FPGAs or the like.

Memory may include a random access memory RAM or another type of dynamic storage device that stores information and instructions for execution by processing unit a read only memory ROM or another type of static storage device that stores static information and instructions for the processing unit and or some other type of magnetic or optical recording medium and its corresponding drive for storing information and or instructions.

Input device may include a device that permits an operator to input information to device such as a keyboard a keypad a mouse a pen a microphone one or more biometric mechanisms and the like. Output device may include a device that outputs information to the operator such as a display a speaker etc.

Communication interface may include a transceiver that enables device to communicate with other devices and or systems. For example communication interface may include mechanisms for communicating with other devices such as other devices of environment .

As described herein device may perform certain operations in response to processing unit executing machine readable instructions contained in a computer readable medium such as memory . A computer readable medium may be defined as a non transitory memory device. A memory device may include space within a single physical memory device or spread across multiple physical memory devices. The machine readable instructions may be read into memory from another computer readable medium or from another device via communication interface . The machine readable instructions contained in memory may cause processing unit to perform processes described herein. Alternatively hardwired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with machine readable instructions to implement processes described herein. Thus implementations described herein are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software.

Although shows example components of device in other implementations device may include fewer components different components differently arranged components or additional components than depicted in . Alternatively or additionally one or more components of device may perform one or more other tasks described as being performed by one or more other components of device .

As shown in display may display video content received for example from content delivery system . Video content may include an audiovisual program such as a movie television program etc. which includes audiovisual items . Audiovisual component may include an object or sound in video content e.g. physical objects such as a car clothing worn by a person in the video content or sounds that identify an idea such as a song verbal references to particular entities etc. . For example a movie scene may include a man walking towards a car while speaking on a cell phone to his wife. Audiovisual components may include the man s shoes and clothing the car the actor the cell phone etc. Examples of things that may correspond to audiovisual components include a person a consumer electronics item a toy a clothing item a motor vehicle a building a song or a word

Video tag may identify audiovisual component . For example video tag may identify an area of the screen corresponding to audiovisual component . Video tag may include a separate visual component arranged in proximity to audiovisual component or highlighting of audiovisual component e.g. audiovisual component may glow or change colors . Alternatively video tag may include an icon that is displayed in video tag playback controller i.e. in the section of the screen reserved for video tag playback controller and may not be displayed in proximity to audiovisual component . Video tag may or may not be displayed over or in association with audiovisual component depending on the users preference provided based on GUI settings legal requirements etc.

Video tag may include one or more fields component information that describe define audiovisual component as well as additional information provided by creators of the video tags such as commentary from users and links application programming interfaces APIs and purchasing information for the audiovisual component provided by sponsors. The fields may include a name of the movie i.e. video content a component location of the video tag a name of the audiovisual component and supplementary information based on the audiovisual component such as a biography if the audiovisual component is a person a price if the audiovisual component is a commercial item and or a scene type.

Video tag playback controller may be implemented on devices e.g. STB and TV or user device that support user interaction methods and have an active connection to a support network s for video tagging such as the Internet and or service provider network . Video tag playback controller may include playback controls and visual bar that implement the video tagging service at user device . Video tag playback controller may be programmed to appear based on a particular input e.g. when a screen of user device is touched and may disappear after a predetermined time if no further input is received.

Playback controls may provide options for a user to access information regarding video tags. Playback controls may provide control options such as turning video tags on or off displaying video tags in an overlay format selecting types of video tags to display e.g. different categories such as actors commercial items performance statistics etc. sources of video tags e.g. particular persons that the user wishes to display video tags etc. For example the user may provide an input for playback controls to select one or more categories of video tags to display. If video tags are within the one or more categories the video tags may be displayed in association with the video content . Playback controls may allow a user to find select play save skip or record video content based on particular video tags . For example playback controls may allow a user to save video tags for later reference e.g. in a video tag clipboard not shown . If a user saves video tags e.g. the user inputs a save request in association with video tag while watching video content the user may receive an email or an update to an account associated with video tags with detailed information about audiovisual component . Alternatively playback controls may save user interests based on video tags and may include the saved interests in determining video tags that are to be provided for the user. In another example the user may skip when recording or playback video content that includes a particular video tag e.g. a commentator that the user finds annoying . The user may also record based on the video tag including particular keywords e.g. the user may record video content that includes the keyword Jamaica so that all scenes set in or associated with Jamaica are recorded .

Visual bar may include information based on audiovisual component such as a name a price features related items link information a retailer where the item may be purchased etc. Visual bar may be located in close proximity to playback controls e.g. beside playback controls in above or below playback controls in other instances . In one embodiment visual bar may include information about the audiovisual component provided based on a sponsorship model. For example a company may sponsor video content provided to user device . The user may participate in a screen buy in which the company may sponsor a new release movie a video content item in exchange for the user accepting enabling specific video tags from the sponsor. The video tags may provide purchasing information and for example related products from the sponsoring company.

Video tag playback controller may provide the user a number of options for interacting with video tags . Options may include viewing video tags adding video tags or commentary as described hereinbelow with respect to selecting different types of video tags to display and or selecting to display video tags based on different users and or sponsors.

Video tag option list may include a list of sub options that the user may select for video tags . For example if the user selected different types of video tags to display the available types of video tags may be displayed as sub options in video tag option list such as persons in a movie scene audio e.g. music in a movie scene a location of a movie scene commercial objects in a movie scene etc.

According to one embodiment the user may select a show video tags option for a user to see more information regarding audiovisual components . The user may pause playing of video content and provide an input e.g. slide their linger around a display of user device provide a gesture for motion capture associated with user device etc. to identify video tags which may include information about a scene such as commentary or products depending on user selected preferences. In one embodiment video tags may provide audible information about different audiovisual components in video content .

According to one embodiment the user may select a sponsor for video content from a sponsor list displayed in video tag option list . The sponsor list may contain different types of sponsors such as clothing general shopping electronics retailers etc. The company may have a maximum number of video tags for certain video content . The user may enable these video tags by accepting the sponsorship. A company or sponsor may also provide an API that will allow the user to search a catalog provided by the company based on the audiovisual component . The display of video tags may be governed by parameters specified by users administrators sponsors etc.

Alphanumeric keypad may appear be displayed based on a particular input provided by the user e.g. a touch of the screen of user device or a selection of an associated icon in user interface . The user may enter a search string in search field to search for particular video tags using alphanumeric keypad . The user may enter a search string based on terms associated with audiovisual components that the user is searching for such as a combination of a name of a particular actor a song title a commercial object director scene type etc. For example the user may enter an actor name such as Jim Windsor a commercial object such as a hat and a scene type such as fight scene in order to find a fight scene in which the actor wears a hat. In some implementations the user may search for specific types of audiovisual components such as a song a scene etc. Video tag playback controller may transmit the search string to video tagging server . Video tagging server may return a list of video tags based on the search string. The user may access the related movies at the point of the video tags by clicking on the search results.

Referring to a user may add commentary about a particular audiovisual component on the screen i.e. in video content . For example the user may touch the screen to highlight the audiovisual component . Machine readable instructions implemented on user device may support touch input by the user e.g. following the users gesture for a certain amount of time drawing a circle around a selected audiovisual component etc. The machine readable instructions may store a space and time in video content at which the selected audiovisual component is located and may be adaptive to different screen sizes of user devices . The user may pause playing of video content until the user is finished video tagging. Alphanumeric keypad may include a relatively small on screen keyboard that may substantially minimize used screen space on user device . Alphanumeric keypad may be moveable to enable the user to view selected area of the screen when tagging audiovisual component . Alternatively alphanumeric keypad may be selected to appear disappear by playback controls .

After selecting particular audiovisual components the user may enter a video tag commentary string into video tag information entry field using alphanumeric keypad . Video tags including the just entered video tag may be briefly displayed after the user enters the video tag commentary string. The video tag commentary string may include user provided commentary that is thereafter stored by video tagging server in association with audiovisual components of video content and may be provided to subsequent users in video tags e.g. based on a same actor car athlete etc. in the same or different movies . For example if the audiovisual component is a car or more precisely an image of a car video tag commentary string may include commentary regarding the car such as That was my first car STB may transmit the video tag commentary string to video tagging server and or social media websites e.g. Facebook Twitter etc. in some instances with character limits on the length of each video tag commentary string . STB may also record and transmit a date time and component location information associated with each video tag to video tagging server . STB may also include a screen shot a comment the video tag commentary string and a link to video content at video tag when sending video tags to social media websites.

According to one implementation if the user is browsing computer accessible document using an appropriately enabled device the user may access video content based on video tag . For example the user may click on video tag in computer accessible document sending a request to video tagging server . Video tagging server may receive the request for the video content from a requester based on the video tag . Video tagging server may determine a subscription status of the requester with the service provider associated with the video content for example by sending a status request to profile server . If the requester is a subscriber in good standing video tagging server may provide access to the video content at a starting component location. The starting component location may be based on the component locations associated with the video tag . For example the video content may begin play at a first instance of the video tag . Alternatively the user may be provided screen shots or other indication of different component locations and may select to start the video content at that point.

According to another implementation the user may provide video tags to video tagging server via a video tag enabled website. The video tag enabled website may be operable to transmit video tags and may include an interface such as an online store or other forum which includes items that may be displayed as audiovisual components in video content . For example the user may click on an API associated with a particular audiovisual component and sponsor and receive a link to the video tag enabled website. Items in the video tag enabled website may have a video tag logo i.e. a video tagging function displayed in close proximity. The user may click on the video tag logo to rate or otherwise provide information regarding particular items. The user may add attributes of the audiovisual components i.e. an attribute field to the video tag such as a color a shape etc. The user may search for audiovisual components based on the defined attributes. Video tagging server may receive additional video tag with regard to the initial video tag that provides the link from the video tag enabled website. Video tagging server may identify information included in the one or more fields of the additional video tag that associates the additional video tag with video content based on the information included in the one or more fields of the additional video tag.

In another example the user may identify an audiovisual component that the user wants to video tag in a computer accessible document . The user may apply the video tag . At that moment the video tag may not be associated with a particular movie video content . Video tagging server may subsequently search the web or otherwise receive the video tag . Video tagging server may associate the video tag with particular video content based on audiovisual components and keywords include in associated with both the video tag and the video content .

Video tagging server may determine video tags associated with audiovisual components identified at component locations in video content. Video tagging server may apply the video tag to the video content in association with the identified audiovisual component. The video tag may display information associated with the audiovisual component.

Main video tagging module may receive video content from content delivery system and perform server side identification of audiovisual components . Main video tagging module may determine video tags based on information about the audiovisual components provided from associated databases not shown such as a sponsor database i.e. for sponsored content items such as for example shoe prices shoe models available shoe sizes etc. for a shoe sales organization a biographical information database i.e. for actors in a movie an encyclopedia database i.e. for general information items etc. For example main video tagging module may perform image analysis and sound analysis of video content on a frame by frame or scene by scene basis. Main video tagging module . may identify a time and a screen location at which the audiovisual component occurs. Main video tagging module may track the audiovisual component on a frame by frame basis to determine instances at which the audiovisual component occurs e.g. once an identity of the audiovisual component is determined main video tagging module may track the object in the video in preceding and following frames . Main video tagging module may create a video tag and apply the video tag to the audiovisual component e.g. insert video tag in video content in proximity to the audiovisual component .

Video tag search module may allow the user of user device to search among video tags . For example video tag search module may allow the user to search for video tags in a particular movie or in a database of video tags . Video tag search module may return a link to a number of search results. The user may select any of the search results and user device may place the user in video content at a searched for particular video tag i.e. starts play of video content at a time in video content corresponding to the video tag if the video content includes a movie for which the user has access privilege. If the user does not have current access privilege for video content e.g. a movie or television program video tag search module may return an API for the user to sign up for a video service or to purchase access to video content and place the user at the video tag in the video content after sign up or alternatively the user may be allowed a certain amount of content without purchase .

User video tagging module may receive video tags from users and store the video tags and associated information such as a particular film a component location of the audiovisual component on which a video tag is based ratings associated with the video tag etc. in an associated database. User video tagging module may perform a gate keeping function for video tags received from different users. For example user video tagging module may filter or flag for administrators explicit language that is included in video tags e.g. video tags may be displayed based on a viewer rating of the video program such a parental guidance 13 PG 13 . User video tagging module may receive ratings for each video tag e.g. from a social media website user devices etc. and provide video tags based on a rating system e.g. based on recent comments popularity etc. . User video tagging module may store video tags in a database that may be accessed by main video tagging module when determining video tags for video content.

Video tags may be disseminated and rated by users in social media context in a manner that allows for viral spreading of video tags . For example user commentary may be linked to video content using video tags that allow the user to access the video content from social media websites.

Video tag client may include hardware or a combination of hardware and software that may enable STB or user device to interface with content delivery system video tagging server application server profile server and or license deserver and to provide a video tagging service for video content from content delivery system and the Internet to the user in a seamless manner. Video tag client may provide client side support for applications based on the video tagging service. Video tag client may include an interactive client interface that allows a user to provide inputs such as user passwords video tag commentary strings input for a video tag playback controller etc. such as described in .

DRM agent may include hardware or a combination of hardware and software that may retrieve security information e.g. decryption keys from license server or another device to access protected content received from content delivery system . For example DRM agent may communicate with video tag client to identify selected content and coordinate the receipt of DRM security information e.g. from license server with the protected content from content delivery system . Protected content may include for example any content encrypted to enforce copyright restrictions.

Although shows example functional components of STB in other implementations STB may include fewer functional components different functional components differently arranged functional components and or additional functional components than depicted in . Alternatively or additionally one or more functional components of STB may perform one or more other tasks described as being performed by one or more other functional components of STB .

At block video tagging server may identity video content that includes audiovisual components . For example video content may be provided to video tagging server during pre processing of video content in service provider network . Video content may include sequential video programs such as movies sports programs etc. Alternatively video content may include non sequential programs such as a video game etc.

At block video tagging server may receive an identification of audiovisual component . For example video tagging server may receive the identification of audiovisual component in video tag information provided by a user e.g. when the user video tags an audiovisual component as described below with respect to process and an administrator for network or by a sponsor. The video tag information may include identification of audiovisual components e.g. a particular product component locations for each audiovisual component i.e. a screen location of the product and component information associated with particular audiovisual components e.g. a price for the product a website associated with the product shown in blocks to .

According to another embodiment video tagging server may identify audiovisual components . Video tagging server may perform sound and or image analysis of video content to identify audiovisual components . For example video tagging server may perform facial matching analysis to determine occurrences of an actor in a movie. For non sequential programs video tagging server may identify each distinct element e.g. characters in a video game . An identifier such as the name of the actor or character may be stored in association with occurrences of the audiovisual component .

Video tagging server may identify component locations of audiovisual components block . The component location indicates a time and a screen position with which the audiovisual component is associated with in the video content . For example video tagging server may receive a component location of an audiovisual component from a user device when a user video tags the audiovisual component. The user may track the component locations of audiovisual component in video content to identify a range of time and space in which the object is located creating a motion path for the audiovisual component. Alternatively video tagging server may identify a time and or place i.e. screen location in the video content at which the audiovisual component occurs.

Video tagging server may identify component information associated with the audiovisual component block . For example video tagging server may receive component information associated with the audiovisual component from a user device when a user video tags the audiovisual component. The types of information e.g. a restriction on links to websites that the end user may provide may be limited based on a particular program and security features selected by an administrator of network . Alternatively video tagging server may search e.g. a biographical database the Internet based on a name of the audiovisual component . Video tagging server may search for links and applications related to the audiovisual component e.g. such as a shopping website for clothing items .

Video tagging server may generate a video tag based on the audiovisual component block . For example video tagging server may provide information that may be used by a receiving user device to render a video tag at the component location in video content .

Video tagging server may populate one or more fields associated with the video tag based on the component information the identification of the audiovisual component and the component location block . The one or more fields may include a name of the audiovisual component a position in the video content of the audiovisual component properties associated with the audiovisual component and information provided by at least one of an end user an administrator or a service provider. For example video tagging server may compile a biography relevant website links and other component information in a predetermined format e.g. an identity card for actors .

At block video tagging server may present video tag in association with the video content . For example video tagging server may present video tag as an overlay e.g. such as video tag playback controller for video content . The overlay may be included in a video stream provided to users of video content and may allow users to interact with video tags such as selecting particular video tags and accessing the component information associated with the video tags flagging the video tags providing ratings for the video tags etc.

According to one embodiment video tagging server may present video tag in association with video content at the component location. For example video tagging server may process audiovisual component to create an association of audiovisual component with the video tag . Video tag may occur in the video content in proximity to audiovisual component . Alternatively input received from a user with respect to video tag may appear based on user input provided in association with audiovisual component e.g. the user may touch the screen location of audiovisual component on a touch screen device .

According to another embodiment video tagging server may present video tag in a computer accessible document such as a web page. The web page may be specified by the user such as a social media website. The embedded video tag may allow requesters to access the video content at the component location after they have provided appropriate authorization such as a log in or subscription information to the service provider associated with the video content .

Video tagging server may receive requests based on the video tag from user devices block . For example a user may click on the video tag while watching video content . The user may request an API for a shopping website etc.

Video tagging server may process the request block . For example video tagging server may provide a link to a requested API.

At block user device may initiate video tag playback controller . For example the user may touch a screen of user device . Video tag playback controller may appear on the screen of user device . Alternatively video tag playback controller may initiate with video content .

At block user device may identify an audiovisual component that is to be video tagged. For example user device may receive a touch input at a screen location that corresponds to the audiovisual component. The selected audiovisual component may glow or otherwise indicate that it is to be video tagged.

At block user device may identify a component location of the audiovisual component . For example user device may store a screen location and a time in the video content at which the audiovisual component occurs. The video content may have been pre processed so that all occurrences of the audiovisual component are stored in association with received video tags when the audiovisual component is identified.

At block user device may receive a video tag commentary string input by the user for example using alphanumeric keypad . User device may also receive addresses to which the video tag is to be provided. For example the user may input a social media website link an email address etc. Alternatively the video tags may be automatically linked to particular addresses.

At block user device may determine a video tag based on the video tag commentary string. For example user device may prepare a video tag in a particular visual format. User device may also flag inappropriate language. User device may display the video tag and prompt the user to input the video tag e.g. are you ready to send .

User device may send the video tag to selected addresses block . For example user device may send the video tag to selected social media websites video tagging server etc.

Systems and or methods described herein may implement video tagging of video content. Objects or sounds may be identified in the video content and a video tag may be inserted in the video content in association with the objects or sounds . The video tags may include information relating to the object such as purchasing information statistics etc.

In the preceding specification various preferred embodiments have been described with reference to the accompanying drawings. It will however be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereto and additional embodiments may be implemented without departing from the broader scope of the invention as set forth in the claims that follow. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than restrictive sense. For example while series of blocks have been described with respect to the order of the blocks may be modified in other implementations. Further non dependent blocks may be performed in parallel. Although video content video tags and video tag playback controller are described with respect to a single user device video tags may be implemented in a multiple device system such as when video content is displayed on a first device and video tags are pushed to a second device associated with the first device.

It will be apparent that systems and or methods as described above may be implemented in many different forms of software firmware and hardware in the implementations illustrated in the figures. The actual software code or specialized control hardware used to implement these systems and methods is not limiting of the embodiments. Thus the operation and behavior of the systems and methods were described without reference to the specific software code it being understood that software and control hardware can be designed to implement the systems and methods based on the description herein.

Further certain portions of the invention may be implemented as a component or system that performs one or more functions. These components systems may include hardware such as a processor an ASIC or a FPGA or a combination of hardware and software.

No element act or instruction used in the present application should be construed as critical or essential to the embodiments unless explicitly described as such. Also as used herein the article a is intended to include one or more items. Further the phrase based on is intended to mean based at least in part on unless explicitly stated otherwise.

