---

title: 1MHz scalable cascaded Z-source inverter using gallium nitride (GAN) device
abstract: The scalable cascaded Z-source inverter is able to interface flexibly different distributed renewable energy sources or storages in wide voltage change range, such as wind power, solar power, battery, fuel cell, Ultra-capacitor and so on. The invention facilitates the AC 1 MHz frequency output; therefore high power density can be reached. Z-source network is integrated in each inverter module to wide system operation range, improve high system efficiency, and enhance high system reliability. The invention is applied for PV system to verify the performance.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09621073&OS=09621073&RS=09621073
owner: The Florida State University Research Foundation, Inc.
number: 09621073
owner_city: Tallahassee
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120831
---
This application claims priority from U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 529 602 filed on Aug. 31 2011 entitled 1 MHZ Scalable Cascaded Z Source Inverter Using Gallium Nitride GAN Device .

This invention was made with Government support under Grant No. 1124658 awarded by NSF National Science Foundation GOALI grant entitled 1 MHz GaN Based Modular Cascaded Z Source Inverters for Scalable Grid Interactive Photovoltaic PV Applications . The Government has certain rights in the invention.

Department Of Energy requests 2.4 billion for renewable energy efficiency in fiscal year 2011. The proposed budget boosts renewable energy sources and storages application and development such as wind power solar power batteries and fuel cells and so on. There is the widespread growth of distributed energy systems using these renewable energy sources and storages. More and more attention is paid to the high power density high power efficiency high power quality and high system reliability of the distributed energy systems.

The main reason that prevents the grid connected photovoltaic PV systems from realizing its full market potential is the power losses due to the module mismatch orientation mismatch partial shading and maximum power point tracking MPPT inefficiencies. The traditional cascaded dc dc converter topology shown in can interface distributed PV modules and achieve MPPT for each PV module therefore reduces the power loss. However the configuration has dc dc and dc ac conversion stages which decrease the overall system efficiency. Moreover the switching frequency of dc ac inverter is limited leading to the big size AC filter and large electrolyte capacitors which restricts the system power quality and power density. Cascaded multilevel inverter topology such as H bridge inverter shown in can interface distributed PV modules achieve MPPT for each PV module and single stage energy conversion support a higher equivalent pulse width modulation PWM frequency and a larger DC bus voltage. Nevertheless the H bridge inverter lacks boost function so that the inverter kVA requirement has to be increased twice with a PV voltage range of 1 2 which restricts the system power density. In addition both configurations are not able to be immune to shoot through faults. Therefore the modular system meets a daunting challenge.

The present invention provides a scalable cascaded Z source inverter configuration for dc ac power conversion that can integrate distributed renewable energy sources and storages with wide voltage ranges. One embodiment of the invention in PV application is shown in . Single energy conversion and boost function can be achieved simultaneously. Independent MPPT for each Z source inverter module can implement an efficient PV energy conversion. In another embodiment of the invention the commercial low voltage GaN device is be used to facilitate modular structure due to its ultra high frequency small size AC filter and DC electrolyte capacitor which reduces losses significantly and achieves high power efficiency.

The present invention is immune to shoot through faults especially operating at high switching frequency and enhance the system reliability. A comprehensive Z source network design is developed based on an innovative equivalent AC circuit model for the single phase PV system. Flexible and reliable control system integrated is developed to improve the PV energy harvesting capability. In particular the invention is suitable for hybrid renewable energy sources and storages application in wide system operation range. High power density high power efficiency high power quality and high system reliability can be achieved.

In the following detailed description of preferred embodiments reference is made to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof and within which are shown by way of illustration specific embodiments by which the invention may be practiced. It is to be understood that other embodiments may be utilized and structural changes may be made without departing from the scope of the invention.

In one embodiment the scalable cascaded Z source inverter module can be applied for the 1 kW 120V single phase grid connected PV system with 1 MHz frequency output shown in . The 100V 25 A 7 m GaN transistors recently introduced to the market by EPC Corporation are used in each Z source inverter module ZSIM . Each ZSIM is a standardized open frame power module with 250 W. The input voltage of the PV module at maximum output power varies between 30V and 60V based on different PV manufactures. In order to generate 1 MHz operation frequency at output terminals the switching frequency of each ZSIM is 125 kHz due to phase shift PWM modulation method. The PV system facilitates to expand capacity to by series and paralleled inverter module. The system circuit parameters are shown in Table below.

The Z source network design is critical for the system efficiency evaluation. The Z source inductors are useful for reducing current ripple as well Z source capacitors and input capacitor can handle voltage ripple. The maximum current through the inductor occurs during maximum shoot through duty cycle which causes maximum ripple current. In the design 40 current ripple through the inductors during maximum power operation is chosen. The inductance can be calculated by 

For the single phase inverter system the instantaneous output power includes DC component and double fundamental frequency DFF components. The peak to peak value of the DFF power is twice DC power which is PV power. From the energy conservation point of view the DFF power should be absorbed by the input capacitor and Z source capacitors which causes DFF voltage ripple. Since the Z source capacitor voltage Vis much greater than input capacitor voltage V Z source capacitors should be used to deal with the DFF power. Otherwise the total capacitance will increase resulting in low power density. In addition input capacitor with big capacitance will cause the phase shift between Vand Vdue to the equivalent LC filter on DC side which will increase the burden of total capacitors to handle the DFF power. Therefore the input capacitor is used for handling most high frequency voltage ripple. The maximum high frequency voltage ripple occurs during shoot through period and PV module only delivers power to input capacitor. In order to achieve good voltage performance high frequency voltage ripple is limited with 1 . The capacitance can be determined by 

The Z source capacitor is used to handle the DFF voltage ripple and partly high frequency voltage ripple. In order to obtain suitable Z source capacitance the Z source inverter operation mode is analyzed as shown in . The relationship between voltage current and operation mode can be expressed by 

Among AC and DC components included in 3 AC components are useful for the Z source capacitors design. They can be extracted from 4 and then converted as 5 

The equivalent AC circuit model is developed as shown in . Due to the DFF current ripple is absorbed by Z source network AC component of PV current can be ignored. The peak peak voltage ripple on input capacitor V Z source capacitor Vand DC link after Z source network Vcan be calculated by 6 .

Based on 1 2 and 6 the relationship between voltages ripples V V Vand Ccan be obtained in the . shows that the Vis the highest. In order to achieve good voltage performance and maximum power point track MPPT Vis limited with 1 . shows the relationship among C Cand V. It can be seen that Z source capacitors can handle the DFF voltage ripple better than input capacitor.

There are four 100V GaN devices in each ZSIM. The power loss of each 250 W module is calculated around 10 watts so the maximum efficiency is around 96 at about half of rated output power when the input diode is used. shows the power loss distribution of the switching and conduction loss of GaN devices input diode loss the inductors and capacitors loss on Z source network and the input capacitor loss. Since the proposed topology allows each module to switch at only a fraction of the 1 MHz system frequency distribution of power losses to a larger number of power devices leading to high efficiency at 1 MHz and air cooling becomes achievable. This architecture is particularly suitable for PV system where distributed PV arrays can be monitored controlled maintained or replaced if necessary. If synchronous rectifier SR replaces the input diode to be in series with PV module the efficiency of each Z source inverter module is increased from 96 to 98.5 shown in .

Another embodiment of the present invention is the control system as shown in . Each ZSIM receives the voltage and current sensed from each PV module and sent to the MPPT control block. The MPPT control is used to generate the output voltage reference of the PV module. MPPT control can be achieved by different methods such as perturb and observe P O incremental conductance INC ripple correlation control RCC etc. Therefore the output voltage of each PV module can be controlled accordingly to follow its own maximum power point MPP . The PV module voltage control block generates a boost strip line o fabricate the PWM signal with boost function for each inverter module by shoot through state. The controls of each ZSIM are independent so the MPPT of each module can be achieved even when PV modules receive different solar irradiation levels. The control system also includes the capacitor voltage control of each Z source network and independent reactive power control. The Z source capacitor voltage of each module is controlled to track the same reference by PI control with feedforwards so that the desired AC output voltage can be obtained. The output of capacitor voltage control contributes to the d axis components of grid current. The reactive power control with PI controller is related to the q axis components of grid current. Therefore the desired gird current reference can be synthesized in the system control highlighted in dashed box in . In order to achieve the direct control of grid current a proportional resonant PR is adopted to achieve the zero error. The output of the current control is added to the grid voltage feedforwards to generate the total inverter output voltage. However considering the possible different real power and desired equal reactive power from each module a real and reactive components extraction mechanism is developed to extract real and reactive power from each module. Due to the same AC current flowing through each module the voltage distribution decides the power distribution. Therefore the modulation index of each module can be generated based on the developed real and reactive components of output voltage. As a result the objective voltage modulation of each inverter module is sent to PWM generation block which will cooperate with the above boost strip line to generate the final PWM signal. If the number of inverter modules changes the whole control remains the same except the minimum modification on Grid current reference synthesis and Voltage modulation distribution blocks. The control strategy provides a flexible and reliable operation to improve the system efficiency especially when PV modules operate under different solar irradiation levels. The same voltage on the dc link after the Z source network of each module can be guaranteed by the appropriate control to reduce the risk of low frequency harmonic voltage on the total ac inverter output voltage spectrum.

The control system in the present invention may be extended to different cascaded PV inverter such as traditional cascaded PV inverter without dc dc converter cascaded PV inverter with dc dc converter. It is also flexible to be expanded to three phase cascaded inverter system.

The performance of the PV system with four cascaded ZSIM is verified in Matlab Simulink PSIM simulation platform. show the simulation results when the designed Z source network and developed control method were implemented on the PV system. As shown in the temperature is 25 C. and solar irradiation is 1000 W mfor four PV modules before 0.5 s. At 0.5 s the solar irradiation over first three PV models PV PV and PV decreases to 700 W m 800 W mand 900 W mrespectively. The solar irradiation over fourth PV model PV keeps to 1000 W m. It is observed that the powers from PV P PV P and PV P can be controlled to track their MMP smoothly and fast from 250 W to 165 W P 190 W P and 220 W P at 0.5 s in a c respectively. And the power from PV P always tracks the MPP of 250 W P regardless of the other PV power changes in d . shows the input real power from four PV modules P and the power to grid P . At 0.5 s the Pchanges from 1000 kW to 825 W and Pdecreases from 985 W to 815 W. In the simulation only conduction loss of each GaN device and the loss on AC line impedance are considered. The total output voltage of the cascaded inverter V and grid current i are shown in . Due to the small modulation index there is only seven level output voltage not nine level. The reactive power to grid is controlled to be zero. The grid current is almost in phase with the inverter output voltage if the reactive power on AC output filter is negligible. show that the good performance and power quality of the PV system. shows the V V and Vof the first ZSIM. It can be seen that the Vcan be controlled to 60V during non shoot through period regardless of solar irradiation variation. shows V Vand the high frequency current ripple through inductor i under different solar irradiation conditions for the first ZSIM. The current ripple is less than 40 as well Vand Vare less than 1 . The frequency of current ripple is 250 kHz due to phase shift PWM method.

The integration of PV system and control system is shown in . The control system is a central control system. It collects voltage and current of each PV module and capacitor voltage of each Z source PV inverter module grid voltage and grid current. With the appropriate control it generates the objective PWM signal to each PV inverter module. The PWM signal can be transmitted by fiber optical cable to improve the system reliability. One distributed control system can be also achieved by the control objective change.

It will be seen that the advantages set forth above and those made apparent from the foregoing description are efficiently attained. Further since certain changes may be made in the above construction without departing from the scope of the invention it is intended that all matters contained in the foregoing description or shown in the accompanying drawings shall be interpreted as illustrative and not in a limiting sense.

It is also to be understood that the following claims are intended to cover all of the generic and specific features of the invention herein described and all statements of the scope of the invention which as a matter of language might be said to fall there between.

