---

title: Centralized web-based software solution for search engine optimization
abstract: A system and method for modifying a parameter of a website in order to optimize an organic listing of the website at one or more search engines is described. Several embodiments include methods and systems for generating scored representations based upon different portions of data associated with a website, and then combining the scored representations to achieve a result. The result indicates a feature of the website that may be modified in order to optimize the organic ranking of the website at one or more search engines.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08943039&OS=08943039&RS=08943039
owner: RioSoft Holdings, Inc.
number: 08943039
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121102
---
This application is a continuation in part of and claims priority to U.S. Utility patent application Ser. No. 12 970 781 entitled Centralized Web Based Software Solution for Search Engine Optimization filed on Dec. 16 2010 which is a continuation of and claims priority to U.S. Utility patent application Ser. No. 11 689 406 entitled Centralized Web Based Software Solution for Search Engine Optimization filed on Mar. 21 2007 which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 868 702 entitled Centralized Web Based Software Solution for Search Engine Optimization filed on Dec. 5 2006 U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 868 705 entitled System and Method for Measuring the Effectiveness of an Online Advertisement Campaign filed on Dec. 5 2006 and to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 823 615 entitled System and Method for Aggregating Online Advertising Data and Providing Advertiser Services filed on Aug. 25 2006. This application is also related to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 778 594 entitled System and Method for Managing Network Based Advertising Conducted by Channel Partners of an Enterprise filed on Mar. 1 2006. This application is related to U.S. Utility patent application Ser. No. 13 668 131 entitled CENTRALIZED WEB BASED SOFTWARE SOLUTION FOR SEARCH ENGINE OPTIMIZATION filed on even date herewith. The content of each of these applications is hereby incorporated by reference herein in its entirety for all purposes.

This disclosure relates to among other things methods and systems for optimization of websites sites with respect to organic search results generated by search engines in response to user queries. In particular but not by way of limitation aspects of the disclosure pertain to one or more centralized web based software solutions that evaluate sites and identify features of those sites that may be optimized.

With the growth of search engines business entities e.g. companies are dedicating greater portions of their marketing budgets to search engine optimization SEO initiatives. Typically SEO initiatives are driven by organic search results. In this regard the organic listing of a website site pertains to the relative ranking of that site in the algorithmic results generated by a particular search engine on the basis of particular keywords. This contrasts with sponsored or paid search results which are often listed proximate such organic search results and which list sites that have compensated the operator of the search engine for such listing. For various strategic reasons a business entity may drive content of a site it owns or operates so that the site appears in organic search results created by one or more search engines. With respect to measuring the effectiveness of an organic SEO initiative previously known technology does not enable an enterprise scale business entity e.g. an enterprise scale business entity to measure the effectiveness of organic search results associated with various search engines. Furthermore previously known technology does not effectively allow a business entity to audit its site s in an automated fashion using SEO principles across many sites and across many search engines in a way that reflects enterprise scale hierarchies of the business entity.

Exemplary embodiments are shown in the drawings are summarized below. These and other embodiments are more fully described in the Detailed Description section. It is to be understood however that there is no intention to limit the claims to the forms described in this Summary or in the Detailed Description. One skilled in the art can recognize that there are numerous modifications equivalents and alternative constructions that fall within the spirit and scope of the claims.

In one aspect the disclosure relates to a system and method for modifying one or more features of a website in order to optimize the website in accordance with an organic listing of the website at one or more search engines. The inventive systems and methods include using scored representations to represent different portions of data associated with a website. Such data may include for example data related to the construction of the website and or data related to the traffic of one or more visitors to the website. The scored representations may be combined with each other e.g. by way of mathematical operations such as addition subtraction multiplication division weighting and averaging to achieve a result that indicates a feature of the website that may be modified to optimize a ranking of the website with respect to the organic listing of the website at one or more search engines.

In one embodiment for example the scored representations may be combined by generating a respective weight for each of the scored representations and then applying the respective weights to their respective scored representations. Upon applying the respective weights the weighted scored representations may be summed to achieve an intermediate result which is then divided by a sum of the respective weights to achieve the result that may be used to optimize a ranking of the website with respect to the organic listing of the website at one or more search engines.

In one aspect in accordance with the disclosure a non transitory computer readable storage medium stores a plurality of program codes executable by a processor for implementing a method for optimizing a website. The plurality of program codes include codes for acquiring data associated with the website and identifying based upon the acquired data sections of the website to be modified to improve an audit score associated with the website. The identifying includes identifying first keyword spaces including one or more defined keywords where the identifying the first keyword spaces is based on an amount of referral traffic associated with each of the first keyword spaces to the website and competitor websites identifying one or more second keyword spaces of the first keyword spaces the second keyword spaces being characterized in that no competitor sites control more than a first threshold amount of the associated referral traffic and identifying one or more sections of the website to be modified. The sections of the website to be modified are identified based upon at least one of one or more keywords included within one or more of the second keyword spaces and the amount of the referral traffic.

In another aspect in accordance with the disclosure a method for optimizing a website includes acquiring data associated with the website and identifying with a processor based upon the acquired data sections of the website to be modified to improve an audit score associated with the website. The identifying includes identifying first keyword spaces including one or more defined keywords where the identifying the first keyword spaces is based on an amount of referral traffic associated with each of the first keyword spaces to the website and competitor websites identifying one or more second keyword spaces of the first keyword spaces the second keyword spaces being characterized in that no competitor sites control more than a first threshold amount of the associated referral traffic and identifying one or more sections of the website to be modified. The sections of the website to be modified are identified based upon at least one of one or more keywords included within one or more of the second keyword spaces and the amount of the referral traffic.

This disclosure relates to among other things methods and systems for optimization of websites sites to enhance organic search results generated by search engines in response to user queries. Several embodiments pertain to one or more centralized web based software solutions that evaluate the effectiveness of search engine optimization SEO with respect to sites of a business entity. More specifically embodiments of the software solutions may evaluate adherence to SEO best practices track organic rankings of a site with respect to one or more search engines determine one or more particular improvements for enhancing the organic rankings of the site implement the one or more particular improvements and or develop one or more reports for display on a user interface.

Aspects of the disclosed system are designed to operate on computer systems servers and or other like devices. While the details of the disclosed embodiments may vary and still be within the scope of the claims shows a block diagram depicting a typical network system for analyzing SEO effectiveness of a site. The network system is only one example of a suitable computing environment and is not intended to suggest any limitation as to the scope of use or functionality of the disclosed system. Neither should the network system be interpreted as having any dependency or requirement relating to any one or combination of components illustrated in the exemplary network system .

Aspects of the disclosed system and method may be described in the general context of computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by a computer or server. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures and the like that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. The disclosed system and method may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices.

As is shown the network system includes a communications network such as the Internet or a private network capable of providing communication between devices at search engine s advertiser client s an SEO analysis system and third party user s described hereinafter. The devices of communicate with each other via any number of methods known in the art including wired and wireless communication pathways.

As shown in a search engine is accessible by a third party user a client and by the analysis system . The third party user may utilize any number of computing devices that are configured to retrieve information from the World Wide Web WWW such as a computer a personal digital assistant PDA a cell phone a television TV and other network communications enabled devices. The client is typically a business entity with one or more websites that are to be indexed by a search engine or a social network. The analysis system operates one or more servers capable of Internet based communication with the search engine and the client . As is discussed below the modeling system enables the client to model the effectiveness of an SEO initiative with respect to other SEO initiatives of the client or entities other than the clients . It is a feature of the disclosed embodiments that these models enable the client to quickly identify marketing inefficiencies and or opportunities.

As those skilled in the art will appreciate various intermediary network routing and other elements between the communication network and the devices depicted in have been omitted for the sake of simplicity. Such intermediary elements may include for example the public switched telephone network PSTN gateways or other server devices and other network infrastructure provided by Internet service providers ISPs .

Attention is now drawn to which depicts one implementation of the analysis system . As is shown the analysis system may include but not by way of limitation a processor coupled to ROM the database a network connection and memory e.g. random access memory RAM .

The database is described herein in several implementations as hard disk drive for convenience but this is certainly not required and one of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that other storage media may be utilized without departing from the scope of the claims. In addition one of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that the database which is depicted for convenience as a single storage device may be realized by multiple e.g. distributed storage devices.

As shown a software solution includes a data retrieval module a report generator module and a user interface UI module all of which are implemented in software and are executed from the memory by the processor . The solution can be configured to operate on personal computers e.g. handheld notebook or desktop servers or any device capable of processing instructions embodied in executable code. Moreover one of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that alternative embodiments which implement one or more components in hardware are well within the scope of the claims. Each module is associated with one or more disclosed functions described herein.

In general terms the solution analyzes the construction of a website site for any possible aspect of that site s construction that would affect the site s organic ranking with respect to one or more search engines. The solution may make recommendations regarding improvements with respect to the site s construction. For example the solution may make recommendations based on the size of one or more webpages pages belonging to a site. Alternative recommendations may pertain to whether keywords are embedded in a page s title meta content and or headers. The solution may also make recommendations based on traffic referrals from search engines or traffic related data from directories and media outlets with respect to the organic ranking of a site. Media outlets may include data feeds results from an API call and imports of files received as reports offline i.e. not over the Internet that pertain to Internet traffic patterns and the like. One of skill in the art will appreciate alternative recommendations.

The modules operate in concert with each other to perform certain functions of the solution . By way of example depicts a process flow diagram illustrating steps taken by the solution in accordance with an embodiment. As shown in step the UI module may receive filtering and configuration parameters from a user e.g. a system administrator the client etc. . The UI module in step may export those parameters to the data retrieval module and or the reports generator module . The parameters may pertain to system administration parameters that apply to general implementations of the solution e.g. pre configured data collection or to user parameters that apply to specific implementations of the solution e.g. real time data collection . The data retrieval module in step uses the parameters to gather specific data defined at least in part by the parameters. The data retrieval module may gather data from one or more search engine files one or more content source files e.g. video image document and various other non html files one or more web files associated with the client s and or one or more web analytics system files. Upon gathering data the data retrieval module in step stores the data in the database . The reports generator module in step accesses the database to retrieve data associated with the parameters and then in step produces one or more types of reports. In step the generated reports are exported to the UI module which displays one or more visual representations of the reports to the user.

The data retrieval module gathers data for use by the reports generator module in generating one or more reports that are visually represented via the UI module . The data may be gathered from any number of sources including by way of example one or more search engines e.g. the search engines one or more content sources e.g. one or more videos images and or documents such as .pdf .doc and .xls files among others one or more sites associated with the client s one or more social media networks or blogs and or one or more web analytics systems.

For example the data collected by the data retrieval module may include traffic levels from one or more search engines to one or more pages of one or more sites. Collected data may also include a number of pages for one or more sites that are indexed by one or more search engines or social networks and whether particular keywords exist in the indexing. The data retrieval module may also collect data associated with an indexed page s category title description and URL with respect to the one or more search engines or social networks. Alternatively or additionally data pertaining to whether one or more keywords are found in a page s title meta content and or headers may be collected. Collected data may also include a total number of pages for one or more sites and whether a sitemap link exists on the home page s of one or more sites.

The data retrieval module may alternatively or additionally collect page level data including URL character length page size keyword density existence of flash navigation existence of JavaScript navigation existence of page errors and existence of header tags among others. One of skill in the art will recognize that the data retrieval module may collect data specific to any type of page including preferred landing pages.

Additional data collected by the data retrieval module may include rankings or a number of ranked positions of one or more pages or sites with respect to one or more organic search engine results that are based on one or more search terms e.g. one or more keywords during one or more time periods.

One of skill in the art will appreciate alternative forms of data may be gathered by the data retrieval module including for example additional web analytics data and or data accessible via application programming interfaces APIs associated with search engines.

Attention is drawn to the reports generator module of which functions to receive parameters from the UI module retrieve data from the database generate one or more reports based on the parameters and the retrieved data and then send the generated reports to the UI module . The generation of reports may be automated e.g. the generation of reports occurs at specified time intervals . When generating the reports the reports generator module may use one or more linear and or non linear combinations involving one or more scored representations to achieve quantifiable metrics pertinent to the client .

A combination may include by way of example a mathematical operation such as addition subtraction multiplication division weighting and averaging among others.

A scored representation may include but not by way of limitation an alphanumeric representation of data collected by the data retrieval module e.g. 0 1 2 . . . n and a b c . . . z and or an alphanumeric representation of a resultant value derived from one or more linear non linear combinations.

A quantifiable metric may be for example indicative of a parameter or feature of a site that may be modified to optimize the site with respect to an organic ranking of the site at a search engine. By way of example in one embodiment a feature may reflect an inefficient or an unrealized use of a keyword with respect of the site s paid or organic ranking in search engine results. In another embodiment a feature may reflect an undesired visitor traffic pattern on the site following a selection of the site by the visitor from a listing of search results at a search engine. In yet another embodiment a feature may reflect the existence of any number of aspects relating to a site including accessibility related aspects site construction related aspects and or search engine related aspects. For example accessibility related aspects may reflect whether a sitemap exists on the site s homepage and or whether the site exists in a Yahoo and or DMOZ i.e. the Open Directory Project directory. Site construction related aspects may reflect exceeded page sizes exceeded URL character lengths lack of flash navigation lack of header tags lack of a keyword in header tags lack of a keyword is a page title and or lack of a keyword in page meta content. Search engine related aspects may reflect a ranking of a site or pages of the site in organic and or paid search results of one or more search engines. One of skill in the art will appreciate various other features that may be indicated using configurable metrics including any of the Collected Data described below with respect to Table 1.

As stated above the reports generator module may employ computations that are configurable in terms of scored representations and combinations. For example a first scored representation may be weighted a second scored representation may be weighted the resultant weighted scored representations may be summed to achieve a summed result and the summed result may be divided by a sum of the weights. In such a case the reports generator module employs four combinations 1 the weighting of the first scored representation 2 the weighting of the second scored representation 3 the summing of the two weighted scored representations and 4 the dividing of the summed weighted scored representations by the sum of the weights. One of skill in the art will appreciate that any number of combinations of any number of scored representations may be used to quantify metrics pertinent to the client . By way of example Table 1 displays a listing of data scored representations of such data and weights applied to the scored representations.

As shown in Table 1 scored representation Vrepresents whether a sitemap link exists on the home page of a site. If a sitemap exists a scored representation of 1 is used to represent V. Otherwise if a sitemap does not exist a scored representation of 0 is used to represent V. In either case a weight w e.g. 5 may be applied to the scored representation.

The scored representations may be represented by any type of strength or grading indicator e.g. alphanumeric representations color coding . Each scored representation as well as combinations of scored representations may be weighted with adjustable weights e.g. rational numbers configurable via the UI module .

As shown in Table 2 combination Cis formed by dividing the sum of weighted scored representations wV wVand wVby the sum of the scored representations weights w wand w. One of skill in the art will appreciated that combinations may be used as scored representations in other combinations. For example combinations Cand Care used as scored representations in combination C and combination Cis used as a scored representation in combination C. One of skill in the art will also appreciate that combinations used as scored representations in other combinations may be weighted. For example weight wmay be any negative or positive rational number e.g. 5 weight wmay be any negative or positive rational number e.g. 3 and weight wmay be any negative or positive rational number e.g. 5 .

One of skill in the art will recognize alternative combinations than those shown in Table 2. Additionally one of skill in the art will appreciate that combinations may be configurable via the UI module in terms of scored representations weights and mathematical operations.

The UI module receives filtering and customization parameters from a user sends at least a portion of those parameters to the data retrieval module and or the reports generator module receives one or more reports from the reports generator module and displays one or more visual representations of the report s received from the reports generator module . The visual representations may be formed of alphanumerical color coded graphical image based or any other type of representation.

At least a portion of the filtering parameters received by the UI module define the scope of data collection by the data retrieval module and or data retrieval by the reports generator . For example the parameters may define the scope of data collection and or data retrieval in terms of one or more instances or periods of time e.g. date ranges triggered events . Alternatively or additionally the parameters may define the scope of data collection and or data retrieval in terms of the types of data previously described with respect to the data retrieval module .

At least a portion of the customization parameters define the report s generated by the reports generator module . The customization parameters allow a user to configure the visual representation of the generated reports. Customization parameters may include parameters similar to those described above with respect to the filtering parameters. Additionally the customization parameters may include drill down online analytical processing OLAP research and sorting parameters e.g. ascending or descending organization as well as display parameters e.g. numeric color coded or video image representation display parameters .

Attention is now drawn to which represent different user interfaces that the UI module may present to a user when representing client pertinent metrics developed during the linear and or non linear combinations described above with respect to the reports generator module . includes a table that displays client pertinent metrics with respect to multiple sites. displays a table that lists multiple sites and their rank with respect to multiple search engines. comprises multiple charts that illustrate client pertinent metrics with respect to a single site e.g. a site selected from the multiple sites listed in or .

One of skill in the art will appreciate alternative embodiments wherein all or a portion of the reports generated by the reports generator module are accessible by one or more computer systems visual displays external to the analysis system e.g. via triggered or automatic emailing or other methods . One of skill in the art will also appreciate alternative embodiments in which the reports generator module develops one or more reports when triggering events occur i.e. under preconfigured circumstances .

Attention is now drawn to which depicts an exemplary implementation of the client . As is shown the client includes a server connected to a database both of which may communicate either directly or indirectly with the communication network . also includes a computing device system configured in accordance with one implementation. The computing device may include but not by way of limitation a personal computer PC a personal digital assistant PDA a cell phone a television TV etc. or any other device configured to send receive data to from the communication network such as consumer electronic devices and hand held devices.

The implementation depicted in includes a processor coupled to ROM input output devices e.g. a keyboard mouse etc. a media drive e.g. a disk drive USB port etc. a network connection a display memory e.g. random access memory RAM and a file storage device

The storage device is described herein in several implementations as a hard disk drive for convenience but this is certainly not required and one of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that other storage media may be utilized. In addition one of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that the storage device which is depicted for convenience as a single storage device may be realized by multiple e.g. distributed storage devices.

As shown a software solution includes a data retrieval module a reports generator module a user interface module all of which are implemented in software and are executed from the memory by the processor . The software can be configured to operate on personal computers e.g. handheld notebook or desktop servers or any device capable of processing instructions embodied in executable code. Moreover one of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that embodiments implementing one or more components in hardware may be alternatively employed. Each module function similarly to modules and respectively of .

A page information portion displays information describing the selected page. The page information portion lists a page title a page URL Gold Words for the page a description of the page an indication of whether or not the page is a PLP and a compliance indicator that indicates which forms of communication can access the page e.g. mobile devices World Wide Web Consortium W3C Cascading Style Sheets CSS etc.

An audit score window lists the overall audit score the link audit score the content audit score and the technical audit score for the selected page. A social signals window lists a number of user engagements that have been found in the latest ad hoc audit. In this example the social signals window lists the number of Facebook Likes Twitter Tweets Google 1s . A user input button labeled Run Ad Hoc Audit Report can be activated by a user in order to run another ad hoc audit report and update the Ad Hoc Audit Results portion .

The screen also includes a Link Audit Summary portion . The Link Audit Summary portion lists the number of external inbound links to the selected page from other domains the percentage of these external links that include the Gold Words in the anchor text the percentage of these external links that include part of the Gold Words in the anchor text and the percentage of these external links that are missing the Gold Words in anchor text. A link hub analysis portion partially shown lists the top 10 Hubs that link to the page being audited.

A user input button labeled Run Link Builder can be activated by a user in order to run an audit of links inbound to the page so as to get an update of the link analysis information contained in the portion . The screen is exemplary only and other social media information can also be displayed.

As discussed above the data retrieval module may collect data associated with an indexed page s category title description and URL with respect to the one or more search engines or social networks. Alternatively or additionally data pertaining to whether one or more keywords are found in a page s title meta content and or headers may be collected. Collected data may also include a total number of audited pages for one or more sites and whether a sitemap link exists on the home page s of one or more sites. The data retrieval module may alternatively or additionally collect page level data including URL character length page size keyword density existence of flash navigation existence of JavaScript navigation existence of page errors and existence of header tags among others. One of skill in the art will recognize that the data retrieval module may collect data specific to any type of page including preferred landing pages.

The data collected by the data retrieval module is used by the report generator module to determine one or more scored representations. These scored representations can be determined when changes are made to pages of a site that is being updated and or determined periodically. These on going analyses are referred to herein as audits and the scored representations are referred to as audit scores. A history of audit scores is stored in the analysis system database . These historical audit scores are used to provide an efficient method of Portfolio Management of a website portfolio of webpages. The Portfolio Management methods described herein provide an ability to prioritize work based on the possibility of increasing the audit score the most. The Portfolio Management methods depend upon the ability to calculate an audit score and use that audit score to identify keywords or other enhancements that have more potential for increasing the audit score.

As shown in Table 1 there are at least 39 different scored representation values Vand weights Wthat can be used to calculate an audit score. With so many different scored representations and weights it can be difficult for a person to identify what has affected an audit score from one analysis to the next. For example if an analysis system uses 39 different scored valuations for each page of a website and there are 5 sections of the website each section with 1000 pages this results in 195 000 potential areas that could potentially be changed to affect the audit score. This is an unmanageable number of possible items for a small workforce to handle. The Portfolio Management system described herein identifies the most lucrative areas for improvement by analyzing which areas of the website can be most influential in changing the audit score and thus improve the chances of the entire website functioning more efficiently.

The Portfolio Management system uses three factors in identifying which areas of a website are most likely to improve the chances of improving in rank. The Portfolio Management system considers three factors in making this determination. The four factors include 1 identify key word spaces that are searched frequently 2 identify which of these key word spaces have weak competition and 3 identify which of these key word areas are characterized by low click rates in the website being managed and 4 remove any keywords where the rank is already in position number organically. By considering all four of these factors when identifying which opportunities exist across all pages of all site sections for an entire website the Portfolio Management system described herein increases the likelihood of improving the ranking of the website within organic search results compared to competitors and thus improving the performance of the website.

Referring to a table displays client pertinent metrics with respect to multiple sites or sections defined within a large domain site . Each of the sites displayed in is associated with a certain key word space that has high referral traffic as evidenced by the 1 345 321 referrals made in the fifteen day period illustrated Jan. 1 15 2006 in this example . The list of sites in includes the portions of the site being managed iams.com iams.de and iams.jp in this example as well as sites from the competition. The Portfolio Management system uses the referral traffic numbers in column 3 of table to identify whether or not the key word space is searched frequently by comparing the referral traffic total of U.S. Pat. No. 1 345 321 to the referral traffic of other key word spaces. The Portfolio Management system can use the percentage numbers in column 3 of table to identify whether the competition is weak. For example if none of the competitor sites have more than a threshold number of the referral traffic such as 15 for example. Lastly the Portfolio management system can identify if the website has low click rates in this keyword area by determining if the percentage numbers of the site sections being managed the iams sites in this example are below a threshold level such as 5 for example. In other words if the total query volume and visits for an entire group in a key word space is large while no single site or domain dominates the search results all less than 15 for example and if the calculated percentage of query volume for the managed site section s is low less than 5 for example then the managed site section is a likely candidate for improvement in the search rankings.

Referring to a table lists multiple sites and their rank in the preferred landing page PLP list with respect to multiple search engines. The Portfolio Management system can also use these PLP listings of the site sections of the website being managed to identify where improvement can most likely be made.

The screen includes a trend snapshot window a PLP rank trend focus window a response error code window a site priority window and a site summary window . The trend snapshot window displays time histories of various metrics known as Key Performance Indicators KPIs that the reports generation module has generated based on past analyses. In the example screen the time histories include the audit score traffic volume query volume and external links pointing towards the website for the website being managed. In addition to the time histories the trend snapshot window also lists the most recent values for the audit score traffic volume query volume and external links.

The PLP rank trend focus window displays a graphical time history showing a columnar display of PLP ranks for all websites that are displayed by one or more search engines in response to a defined set of keywords. The trend focus window also displays a focused time history for one of the KPIs the audit score in this example overlayed on the PLP ranks . The user can highlight one of the KPI time histories in order to change the focused time history . The columnar PLP rankings are divided into three groups a high ranking group of the pages that rank in positions 1 4 a medium ranking group for the pages in positions 5 30 and a low ranking group for the pages that rank 31 and higher. The ranking numbers of these three groups high medium and low are configurable by the user to be different ranges. The columns of the PLP rankings are sized to show the percentage of key words in the defined group of keywords that each of the high medium and low ranking groups include. The key word percentage scale is located on the left side of the graph.

The focused time history is a time history of one of the trends listed in the trend snapshot window . The user determines which of the metrics in the trend snapshot window is displayed with the focused time history by highlighting that trend in the trend snapshot window . In this example the audit score metric is highlighted. The user can change which metric is displayed with the focused time history by highlighting that metric. The combination of the PLP rankings and the focused time history provides the user with a comparative glimpse of how the website being managed is doing in comparison to the other websites in the PLP rankings . The size of the PLP ranking columns provides the user with an estimate of the percentage of keywords in the defined keyword space needed to get into the high ranking group or the medium or low ranking groups .

The response code error window displays HTTP errors for the entire website being managed. The HTTP errors include 404 302 and 500 errors. These errors indicate to the user the number of pages in the website that are not functioning properly. The response code error window also lists the change in the number of errors introduced since the last time an audit score was determined. The audit score can depend on the number of HTTP errors. The HTTP errors are also used in another portion of the analysis system referred to as Continuity Management. The Continuity Management system is described below.

The site priority window is a first element of the Portfolio Management system that communicates an order of prioritized recommendations to the user. The site priority window displays the highest priority opportunities to improve the audit score of the website. A set of icons is displayed for the sections of the website that are listed in a site list in the site summary window .

The site list is determined by the user and represents sub sections or pages of the website being managed. In addition to showing the site list listing the various sections of the website being managed the summary window lists the current values of various metrics and a change in the value of the metrics since the last audit score analysis for each of the sections of the website. In this example the summary window lists for each section of the website the current value and most recent change in value for each the audit score the organic traffic the average PLP rank the word count the page count the click through rate and the query volume.

An icon is displayed for each of the sections listed in the site list . The icons are positioned in the graphical display of the site priority window based on the competitiveness of the section compared to the competition e.g. comparative audit checks as shown on the vertical ordinate portion of the graph and further based on the current share of clicks that the section controls versus all the clicks for the key word space including the competition as shown on the horizontal abscissa portion of the graph. In general the Portfolio Management system will give higher priority to sections of the website that have a low share of clicks and a low competitiveness.

The priority of each of the sections is indicated in this example by the color of each of the individual icons . A priority scale shows a priority ranking from low to high for 5 color levels. Different shades of a single color could be an indication of the priority. For example if the icons are different shades of blue the lowest priority could be light blue and ever darkening shades of blue could be used for the four other priority levels with the highest priority level being the darkest shade of blue.

A user can elect to learn more about the state of each of the sections of the website as determined by the Portfolio Management system by clicking on the respective icon for that section of the website. When the user clicks on one of the icons a section specific screen as shown in is displayed. The section level screen shows similar sections as the website level screen but only for the selected section one of the sections listed in the site summary window of . The section level screen includes a section trend snapshot window a section PLP rank trend focused window a section response code error window and a section specific key word priority window .

The section trend snapshot window displays time histories of various metrics that the reports generator module has generated based on past analyses for the selected section of the website. In the example screen the time histories include the audit score an average PLP rank a traffic volume query volume external links pointing towards the website conversions and a revenue amount for the selected section of the website being managed. A conversion is a client defined on page action that a visitor takes while interacting with the site. A conversion could be a sale a whitepaper download a video view a registration or other revenue or non revenue based action. In addition to the time histories the trend snapshot window also lists the most recent values for each of these metrics.

A PLP rank trend focus window displays a graphical time history showing a columnar display of PLP ranks for all websites that are displayed by one or more search engines in response to a defined set of keywords selected for the section of the website that the screen pertains to. The trend focus window also displays a focused time history overlayed on the PLP ranks . The columnar PLP ranks are divided into three groups in a similar fashion to the PLP ranks of .

The focused time history is a time history of one of the trends listed in the trend snapshot window . The user determines which of the metrics in the trend snapshot window is displayed with the focused time history by highlighting that trend in the trend snapshot window . In this example the audit score metric is highlighted.

The response code error window displays HTTP errors for the selected section of the website being managed. The HTTP errors include 404 302 and 500 errors. These errors indicate to the user the number of pages in the website that are not functioning properly. The response code error window also lists the change in the number of errors introduced since the last time an audit score was determined.

The key word priority window displays the suggested list of keywords that have the greatest opportunity to focus on improving the rank position of the website and thus generating a better traffic number for the selected section of the website for the key words selected for the section of the website. A set of keyword icons is displayed for the selected keywords important to the selected section of the website.

An icon is displayed for each of the keywords that are deemed to be significant to the selected section. The keyword icons are similar to the website section icons of in that they are positioned in the graphical display of the site priority window based on the same competitiveness and current share of clicks for each of the key words individually. In general the Portfolio Management system will give higher priority to keywords in which the selected section has high query volume a low share of clicks and a low competitiveness. Rather than showing the keywords as a graphical display as icons in the site priority window the keywords can list the keywords in a simple table or textual grid listing the competitiveness and current share of clicks for each keyword. In one embodiment the user can toggle between the keyword icons and a table or grid by right clicking on the site priority window with a mouse for example. A user can also toggle between displaying keywords and displaying site sections icons .

The priority of each of the key words is indicated in this example by the color of each of the individual keyword icons . A priority scale shows a priority ranking from low to high for 5 color levels. Different shades of a single color could be an indication of the priority. For example if the icons are different shades of red the lowest priority could be light red and ever darkening shades of red could be used for the four other priority levels with the highest priority level being the darkest shade of red.

A user can elect to learn more about the recommended actions based on priority that the Portfolio Management system has identified for the selected section of the website by clicking on the respective icon for one of the key words. When the user clicks on one of the keyword icons a prioritized list of recommendations as shown in is displayed. Keyword recommendation screen shows a prioritized list of recommendations for the selected section of the website for the selected key word. In the example recommendation screen the Selected Keyword label indicates that the selected keyword is Internet Marketing and the Preferred Landing Page label indicates that the selected section of the website is Interactive Marketing Analytics Software Agency Services Leader Covario. The recommendation screen shows an impact icon for each of the recommendations where the impact icon illustrates a potential impact to change the audit score illustrated by an increasing number of columns from 1 4 in this example. An audit requirement element identifies one of the scored representation entries of Table 1. An audit result element identifies a high level reason that the recommendation was triggered by the audit while an error element identifies a lower level error that triggered the high level audit reason. Lastly a recommendation element identifies specifics on how to resolve the recommendation. In one embodiment the user can select one or more of the recommended actions and generate a pre formatted note to any email address to expedite task management.

The screens and allow a user to start with all the sections of the website identify the most important section to revise with the screen start with 1000 s of keywords and select the higher priority keywords with screen in order to identify the most important recommended actions to take on those terms with screen . This type of focused analysis provides a more focused workflow and increases the efficiency of an organization in optimizing a website in terms of search engine optimization for example.

As discussed above the website screen and the section screen both list HTTP errors in a response code error window and respectively. The Portfolio Management system includes a subsystem known as a Continuity Management System. The Continuity Management System tracks HTTP errors and identifies when they were introduced to the website based upon software updates. As discussed above the audit score can in some aspects track page response errors such as header 1 tag errors header 2 tag errors etc. The Continuity Management system allows for quick identification of causes of HTTP errors that result in lower audit scores. In addition the Continuity Management system allows for quick identification of pages that are not accessible by searchers thereby avoiding lost revenue or conversions as quickly as possible.

A user can view the pages that suffer from the individual response code errors by clicking on the page count for one of the response code errors. shows a 404 error window that results from a user clicking on the 18 page count of the 404 error in the response code error window . The 404 error window lists a site listing that lists each page suffering from a 404 error. The user can click on the individual page entries in the site listing in order to bring up a listing of the errors for that page. This allows the user to quickly identify the problem pages that have failed the audit check in order to fix the problems.

The content audit summary screen provides a unique way for a user to identify which web pages of the website pass and or fail each of the content audit requirements. In this example the web page failure count in the Fail column is a hyperlink that is linked to a recommendation list screen that displays recommended actions that the user can take to improve the content score for each web page that failed the type of audit requirement that the hyperlink was linked with. In this example the hyperlink icon is linked with a requirement that Gold words keywords are included in the URL for a web page. In this example many of the errors involve the keyword being too many levels deep in the URL from the preferred landing page or root directory. The user will get different recommendations when clicking on the hyperlink icons of the other audit requirements.

As described above the audit score is a combination of the weights and values listed in Table 1 which can include one or more of the combinations listed in Table 2. The audit score is used as an indication of how high a website will rank in an organic listing of websites as compiled by a search engine. As such the audit score algorithm can be tuned using statistical analysis for example to be an efficient indicator of where in an organic list of sites a search engine will place the website.

The statistical analysis can include a Monte Carlo style analysis that randomly or pseudo randomly chooses various combinations of scored representations Vand weights wfrom Table 1 to create trial audit score algorithms. For each set of random variables the Monte Carlo analysis calculates audit scores for a large set existing websites each website with one or more PLPs preferred landing pages and calculates an R Squared R value for each trial audit score algorithm indicative of how the audit score algorithm predicts the rank of the PLPs of a website in an organic listing of search results for various Search Engines.

R Squared is a statistical term indicating how good one term is at predicting another. If R Squared is 1.0 then given the value of one term you can perfectly predict the value of another term. If R Squared is 0.0 then knowing one term doesn t not help you predict the other term at all. More generally a higher value of R Squared means that you can better predict one term from another. After analyzing many thousands of random trial audit score algorithms the one with the highest R Squared value between website audit score and PLP rank can be chosen.

Since the audit score algorithm is developed based on certain search engine algorithms when the search engine algorithms change it can be desirable to modify the audit score algorithm based on the updated search engine algorithms. illustrate results of a Monte Carlo analysis used to update an audit score algorithm. shows comparative distributions of an overall audit score a content score a technical score and a link score for an original audit score algorithm labeled v3 and an updated audit score algorithm labeled v4 as determined using a Monte Carlo analysis. The audit score distributions shown in are audit scores for individual PLPs preferred landing pages of a website. The audit scores shown in are overall audit scores for an entire group of websites each of the websites in the group including one or more PLPs.

Referring to a screen includes an overall score distribution chart a content score distribution chart a technical score distribution chart and a link score distribution chart . In each of the charts and the y axis lists the number of occurrences of a given audit score and the x axis lists the audit scores on a scale from 0 100. The overall score distribution chart shows an original overall score distribution and an updated overall score distribution . The content score distribution chart shows an original content score distribution and an updated content score distribution . The technical score distribution chart shows an original technical score distribution and an updated technical score distribution . The link score distribution chart shows an original link score distribution and an updated link score distribution .

In the example shown in the changes from the original audit score algorithm v3 to the updated audit score algorithm v4 include the following 

The distributions and alone are not a useful indicator of whether an audit score algorithm is a good predictor of where a website or PLP will place in an organic listing of a Search Engine. As discussed above the R Squared measure is a useful indicator for determining the effectiveness of one term in predicting another term. shows results of the statistical analysis discussed above using R Squared for updating the audit score algorithm. shows a comparison of average PLP rank see for an example of PLP rank versus site audit score for all PLPs contained in a group of websites with a given overall audit score i.e. the site audit score . In the example shown in a page audit score is determined for each page in a website using the v3 and v4 audit score algorithms represented by the distributions of . In this case the overall page audit score is a linear combination of the page content score the page technical score and the page link score. The site audit score represented by the y axis of is determine based on a weighted combination of inbound link analysis values see V Vin Table 1 to the website and the average page audit score of pages in the website.

A first linear function that was determined e.g. using least squares for the PLP ranks versus the site audit scores for the v4 algorithm is shown in . The first linear function results in an R Squared value of 0.375 in regards to predicting PLP rank for a given site audit score. A second linear function that was determined e.g. using least squares for the PLP ranks versus the site audit scores for the v3 algorithm is also shown in . The second linear function corresponds to an R Squared value of 0.1205 in regards to predicting PLP rank for a given site audit score. In this example the v4 algorithm is three times better 0.375 0.1205 3 at predicting the PLP rank of a page in a website base on the website s site audit score.

The audit score updating discussed in reference to can be conducted periodically or when it has been determined that one or more Search Engines of interest have significantly changes the algorithms use to place PLPs in the organic search results.

As discussed above the reports generator module tracks certain KPIs for a website and displays these KPIs in the trend snapshot window . The reports generator module can be configured to track these KPIs over time. If one of the KPIs changes by more than a user selectable threshold the reports generator module can automatically produce the screen including the PLP rank trend focus window which displays a focused time history for the KPI that changed by more than the threshold overlayed on the PLP ranks . This automatic notification can alert the user as to when something has changed in the website or with Search Engines that has significantly affected the certain KPI.

Upon being notified by the reports generator module that a trend of one of the KPIs has changed the user can do further investigation to determine what affected the change. The change could be determined to be a modification of one of the pages of the website. Alternatively the change could be a change in keywords of competitors or a change in a search algorithm used by the Search Engines. Such instant notification can provide the user with an advantage in responding timely to the change.

The user selectable threshold s used for the KPI trend reporting can include positive thresholds and negative thresholds. For example the user can choose to be notified of a positive change or a negative change in any KPI including but not limited to audit score average organic search listing rank inbound traffic volume query volume or inbound link count.

The user can highlight one of the KPI time histories in order to change the focused time history . The columnar PLP ranks are divided into three groups a high ranking group of the pages that rank in positions 1 5 a medium ranking group for the pages in positions 6 20 and a low ranking group for the pages that rank 21 and higher. The columns of the PLP rankings are sized to show the percentage of key words in the defined group of keywords that each of the high medium and low ranking groups include. The key word percentage scale is located on the left side of the graph.

The focused time history is a time history of one of the trends listed in the trend snapshot window . The user determines which of the metrics in the trend snapshot window is displayed with the focused time history by highlighting that trend in the trend snapshot window . In this example the audit score metric is highlighted. The user can change which metric is displayed with the focused time history by highlighting that metric. The combination of the PLP ranks and the focused time history provides the user with a comparative glimpse of how the website being managed is doing in comparison to the other websites in the PLP rankings. The size of the PLP ranking columns provides the user with an estimate of the percentage of keywords in the defined keyword space needed to get into the high ranking group or the medium or low ranking groups .

Social networks have become a very powerful source for spreading information. Discussions on social networks such as Facebook YouTube Twitter and various blogs can be another form of advertisement for a website. In some aspects the solution can include a Social Media Insight SMI system that gathers information from social networks and presents information to the user regarding how often and in what context the website being monitored is being discussed in social network discussions. In these aspects the data retrieval module is configured to retrieve data indicative of this information and the reports generator module is configured to compile the information into useful indicators that the user can understand. Using the indicators provided by the SMI system the user can modify the content and keywords for example of the website based on the context of the discussions. For example the user can add new keywords to a pay per click PPC strategy or add the new keywords to pages of the website to improve search results.

The SMI system can monitor multiple social networks and provide feedback for each of the social networks separately. The feedback can include for example a number of followers of discussions mentioning the website or product of interest the sentiment of the discussions e.g. positive neutral and or negative the number of mentions of keywords so called Buzz and the number of user engagements e.g. Facebook Likes Twitter Tweets Google 1s comments video views etc. with and or about the website and or products associated with the website.

The cloud computing system can be any computing system with access to social media services and the related information. For example the cloud computing system could be part of the Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud EC2 using the Apache Hadoop open source file system and the Apache Solr open source enterprise search platform running on the Apache Tomcat open source web server and servlet container. The exemplary SMI system includes one or more Hadoop nodes and a Solr Tomcat node .

The pre processing system includes a tenant database that includes tenant specific data files. The tenant specific data files can include lists of keywords and corresponding web pages for tenant websites. The pre processing system also includes a combined database that includes social assets for all tenants being served by the SMI systems . The social assets for all tenants can be a collection of specific engagements of gold words that have been collected in audits of social media websites for all the tenants being served by the SMI system .

The pre processing system creates audit jobs e.g. periodically such as daily for example to collect social media engagement data. In the exemplary pre processing system a run cse sweeper shell script referred to as the run shell script from herein utilizes cron to schedule and run the periodic audit jobs. The run shell script is communicated to a social assets importer module based on the periodic schedule. In the example of the run shell script is scheduled to run daily at 10 00 PM.

Upon receiving the run shell script the importer module retrieves data from the tenant database and the social assets database in order to create an audit job. The data from the tenant database includes keywords that a tenant has chosen for each page of a website. The data retrieved from the social assets database includes a list of social assets owned or earned by the tenant on various social networks or blogs. An owned social asset is an account or page owned by the tenant. For example an owned asset may be one or more tenant sponsored discussion pages on a social media site such as Twitter Facebook YouTube or blogs. An earned asset could be a discussion page on a social media website or blog that was created by outside activity such as public discussions. In one embodiment the importer module is configured to create separate audit jobs for owned assets and earned assets. The importer module also creates a separate audit job to retrieve account level analytics data for each tenant.

Upon receiving the runs shell scripts and retrieving the data from the databases and the social assets importer module writes an audit job in an audit job queue . The audit jobs in the job queue include the necessary information to utilize separate instances of fetcher jobs and Hadoop processor nodes for each audit job in the queue. As discussed above the audit jobs include separate audit jobs both fetchers and processor nodes for owned assets and separate jobs for earned assets.

A put social assets files shell script referred to from herein as a put shell script retrieves the audit jobs in the job queue and submits the audit jobs to the cloud computing system via a secure copy SCP command. An inbound jobs queue receives the jobs form the put shell script . The jobs received by the inbound jobs queue are stored in a Hadoop Distributed File System HDFS .

When jobs are received in the inbound jobs queue fetch jobs are created periodically based on a Fetchall.sh shell script for each of the jobs. When the scheduled time for a job arrives the selected Fetchall.sh shell script is executed causing one or more instances of fetch jobs and in this example to be executed on Hadoop processors . The inputs to the fetch jobs comprise the keywords and owned assets specified in an Owned Accounts.CSV files submitted to the inbound jobs queue .

A first fetch job comprises a Java application configured to search for earned assets on Twitter only. The first fetch job searches the internet for Twitter feeds that are earned. In other words the Twitter feeds are not sponsored by the tenant but are public feeds that include the keywords included in the Twitter feeds. The first fetch job is a public job for anyone posting on Twitter for a given topic keyword whereas a second fetch job is authorized by the client.

The second fetch job is configured to search the internet for both earned and owned assets on specified social networking sites. The second fetch job searches for earned and owned assets on Facebook YouTube and Blogs in this example and searches for owned assets only on Twitter.

Based on the social assets e.g. Facebook pages Twitter feeds YouTube channels etc. listed in the Owned Accounts CSV the account level analytics retrieval process collects overall statistics about the account from Facebook Twitter and or YouTube etc.. The analytics retrieval job ignores blog entries. The statistics collected by the account level analytics retrieval process include the number of followers of a particular social feed a number of posts mentioning keywords of the particular social feed and a number of engagements e.g. Likes ReTweets with the social feed. The statistics collected by the fetch jobs and are posted to an instance of a Solr application running on a Solr Tomcat node . An exporter job portion of the fetch jobs and converts the data from the Hadoop sequence file format to CSV format and stores the CSV files in an outbound Solr data queue .

The social asset fetcher sub process searches the internet for posts and comments in the social assets Facebook page Twitter feed YouTube channel blog listed in owned account.csv. The social asset fetcher sub process collects the most recent posts and comments and stores them in the Solr core database for the tenant of the account. The posts and comments include those for that tenant s owned Twitter Facebook and YouTube accounts and those posts and comments for both earned and owned blogs. For posts and comments it has fetched in the past the social asset fetcher sub process calculates the differences in values to determine the delta values for numbers of comments retweets likes dislikes video views etc.

Upon collecting the posts and comments and posting the posts and comments to the Solr core database for each tenant asset keyword specified in an owned keyword.csv file the social asset fetcher sub process queries the Solr core for that tenant to find all posts matching the keyword s and aggregates the delta values for the different statistics number of followers a measure of sentiment and a number of engagements . The social asset fetcher sub process also takes the owned keyword.csv finds all posts for a given account matching the keywords and uses that list to find the posts for that account that do not match any keywords. The aggregated delta values from these non matching posts are stored in a No Keyword match portion of the account s social owned keyword.csv files. The social asset fetcher sub process also resets to 0 the delta values for the posts in the accounts it has processed. The social asset fetcher sub process also runs an export process twice once for the owned asset results and once for the non matching keyword results. The export process converts the results data from Hadoop sequence files to CSV files in the outbound Solr data queue .

The social asset fetcher sub process searches the internet for earned keywords listed in an input file named earned fetcher.csv. Earned keywords are words that show up in a high volume that are not currently listed in the list of keywords for the website. In one embodiment the social asset fetcher sub process queries YouTube and Facebook for videos and posts that match the keywords in earned fetcher.csv file. The social asset fetcher sub process also collects posts from earned blogs for the keywords in earned fetcher.csv file. The identified posts and videos are stored on the Solr core database . In one embodiment these identified posts and videos are not separated by tenant when stored in the Solr core database but are all stored in the same cores for all the common earned data. The earned Twitter data is collected by a separate process the first fetcher fob that runs continuously.

The earned asset fetcher sub process queries the Solr core database for each tenant asset keyword line in owned keyword.csv for each source YOUTUBE TWITTER FACEBOOK BLOG to find all posts matching the keyword and aggregates the values for the different statistics number of followers a measure of sentiment and a number of engagements . The earned asset fetcher sub process converts the results data from Hadoop sequence files to CSV files and stored in the outbound Solr data queue . Note that because earned blogs are fetched by the social asset fetcher sub process rather than the earned asset fetcher subprocess the social asset fetcher sub process is run prior to the earned asset fetcher sub process.

Upon completion of the fetch jobs the post processing system runs a get social output files shell script to secure copy the data stored in the outbound Solr data queue . The get social output files shell script is scheduled to run based on a cron job scheduler. In this embodiment the get social output files shell script runs daily at 6 00 AM. The get social output files shell script unzips and copies the Solr data retrieved from the outbound Solr data queue and creates a set of Solr data CSV files . The get social output files shell script splits the Solr data on a tenant by tenant basis and creates a server folder labeled MAP Server ETL in . The server folder contains separate folders for each tenant. The get social output files shell script then imports the tenant folders into a tenant database . The tenant database can be the same as the tenant database in the pre processing server .

The social media data imported from the Solr database into the tenant database is used by the reports generator module to create the display as shown in and discussed above. In addition the imported data can be used to display other social media related displays to the user.

The time history window shows a timeline that represents a sentiment also known as Buzz score for a website. The Buzz timeline represents a score of social media sentiment that is similar to the audit score discussed above. However the factors that go into the social media sentiment score of timeline include the number of times that a product or service of the website is mentioned in social media pages or blogs. The social media sentiment score can be calculated using the values Vand weight Wshown in Table 1 above. For example the social media sentiment score could be calculated by summing all the values of Vfor positive V 1.0 neutral V 0.5 and negative V 1.0 comments for all instances where keywords specified in the word cloud are mentioned in social media pages and or blogs both owned and earned weighting the sum by the weight Wand dividing by the total number of instances as follows Sentiment Buzz Sum No. of Instances 1 

In this example Wis 1 so the Buzz score timeline can have a maximum value of 1.0 all positive and a minimum value of 1.0 all negative . The scale for the sentiment buzz score timeline is not shown on the exemplary time history window . The sentiment buzz score given by equation 1 is not affected by the number of instances. However other embodiments could increase the sentiment buzz score for larger numbers of instances. The sentiment buzz score timeline can provide the user with an indication of whether the website is improving or not in discussions on social media pages and blogs.

The time history window also shows color coded columnar icons representative of the number of positive neutral and negative instances that keywords are mentioned in social media pages and or blogs for fifteen time periods e.g. 15 hours 15 days 15 weeks etc. . A pie chart shows similarly colored wedges showing the breakdown of positive neutral and negative instances. The columnar icons provide the user with an indication of the volume of traffic that the social media pages and blogs are experiencing as well as an indication of the percentages of positive neutral and negative sentiments. The time history window can also be changed by the user using a pulldown menu not shown to display other measures such as for example the number of friends followers or the number of engagements.

The word cloud window shows the listing of targeted keywords selected by the client for the website of interest. In addition the word cloud window can display keywords that are not targeted by the client. The size of a font of a word in the word cloud window is larger for words that are mentioned more often in the social media pages and blogs thereby being an indicator of relative frequency or popularity of keywords. This variable font size shows the user which words are most popular and which words are less popular. The user can toggle the word cloud window to display all keywords only targeted keywords or only non targeted keywords e.g. using a mouse input.

The friends followers window shows a trend timeline and a current count for the number of followers of social media pages Facebook Twitter YouTube and Blogs in this example in the last day week or month for example as determined by the user. The sentiment window shows a trend timeline and a current overall sentiment based on the sentiment buzz score discussed above for select social media pages Facebook Twitter YouTube and Blogs in this example .

The engagement window shows a trend timeline and a current number of engagements in that last day week or month for select social media pages Facebook Twitter YouTube and Blogs in this example . In this example engagements include likes tweets and the like for the different social media pages. By showing different trend timelines for each social media page and blog the user can be provided with indications of which social media pages are most important currently or which social media pages need more attention to attract more followers.

The social media profile window shows breakdowns of the sentiment buzz instances number of engagements the number of followers and the sentiment buzz score of different social media profiles that the user is tracking for the website of interest. The social media profiles listed in the profile window include different subsets of the keywords and owned earned social media pages and blogs that are being tracked by the social media insight system. By using different profiles a user can be informed of how different keywords social properties are attracting followers and how the sentiment of these properties varies.

The account level metrics window shows trend timelines and current measurements for number of subscribers sentiment score and number of instances buzz that keywords are mentioned in social media pages and or blogs.

The trends chart shows timelines and for a selected metric number of engagements in this example for separate social media pages and blogs. By showing different trend timelines for each social media page and blog the user can be provided with indications of which social media pages are most important currently or which social media pages need more attention to attract more followers.

The screen is a page level screen that corresponds to one or more pages included in a site list . The screen is displaying a page level window selected from the site list . The screen could also be changed to a sites level window by the user clicking on a sites tab . In this way the user can be tracking multiple websites with multiple pages per website.

An alert window displays color coded icons for various scored representations that are being tracked in the audit score. A red icon can indicate a specific scored representation that changed and resulted in the alert being generated.

A page detail window lists values of user selected metrics that are being tracked to generate alerts. A first sub window lists values for the metrics for a past time period and a second sub window lists values for the metrics for a current time period in which the alert was generated.

A page ranking window lists a time history of search engine rank for three search engines Google Bing and Yahoo or others as determined by the user in this example. More than three search engine ranks can be displayed in other embodiments. A page audit score window lists a time history of audit scores for the page.

By tracking metrics and audit scores on an ongoing basis the Change Tracker system is able to alert the user immediately when an audit score or other metric changes significantly. In this way the user can take corrective action in a fast and efficient manner. The user can identify what change has occurred based on the alert window and the page detail window . Upon receiving an alert including the screen a user can be informed of a change to the source code of the website including summarized changes and relate these changes to the technical content and link metric portions of the audit scores. The user can then take corrective action to remedy the problem s indicated by the screen .

The disclosed exemplary systems and methods have been described above with respect to the analysis system and or the client . One of skill in the art will appreciate alternative embodiments wherein the functions of the analysis system are performed on other devices in the networked system .

Those skilled in the art can readily recognize that numerous variations and substitutions may be made in the disclosed embodiments to achieve substantially the same results as achieved by the embodiments described herein. Accordingly there is no intention to limit the disclosure to the disclosed exemplary forms. Many variations modifications and alternative constructions fall within the scope and spirit of the disclosure as expressed in the claims.

