---

title: Multiplex automated genome engineering
abstract: The present invention relates to automated methods of introducing multiple nucleic acid sequences into one or more target cells.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08569041&OS=08569041&RS=08569041
owner: President and Fellows of Harvard College
number: 08569041
owner_city: Cambridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120305
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 427 478 filed Apr. 21 2009 which is a continuation of PCT Application No. PCT US2007 082487 filed Oct. 25 2007 which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 862 893 filed Oct. 25 2006 each of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entireties.

This invention was made with government support under Department of Energy grant number DE FG02 02ER63445. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates in general to novel methods of introducing multiple nucleic acid sequences into one or more target cells.

Current methods of genome engineering typically introduce one DNA construct per cell generally at low efficiency around 0.1 . Sometimes a large collection of constructs is introduced into a large number of cells simultaneously in a single tube to produce a clone library but the intention is still typically to have one DNA type per cell. To eliminate the many surviving unwanted cells lacking any new DNA typically a selection and or screen is performed at each step of a multi step construction. It is rare to complete a genome engineering construct with more than a dozen steps.

The present invention is based on the discovery of a method to introduce multiple nucleic acid sequences into one or more cells such that the entire cell culture approaches a state involving a large set of changes to each genome or region. This novel method can be used to generate one specific configuration of alleles or can be used for combinatorial exploration of designed alleles optionally including additional random i.e. not designed changes. This novel method can be used with any of a variety of devices that allow the cyclic addition of many DNAs in parallel in random or specific order with or without use of one or more selectable markers.

Accordingly embodiments of the present invention are directed to methods of introducing multiple nucleic acid sequences into a cell including the steps of a providing an automated system including a receptacle containing a cell b transforming or transfecting the cell using transformation medium or transfection medium including at least one nucleic acid oligomer c replacing the transformation medium or transfection medium with growth medium d incubating the cell in the growth medium and repeating steps b d until multiple nucleic acid sequences have been introduced into the cell. In certain aspects a pool of nucleic acid oligomers is added in step b . In other aspects an oligomer is single stranded DNA. In other aspects multiple mutations are generated in a chromosome or in a genome. In still other aspects the growth medium contains an antibiotic and or the growth medium is minimal medium. In certain other aspects the receptacle contains more than one cell. In yet other aspects the receptacle is a microfuge tube a test tube a cuvette a multi well plate a microfiber or a flow system.

Other embodiments of the present invention are directed to methods of introducing multiple nucleic acid sequences into a series of cells in parallel including the steps of a providing an automated system including a series of receptacles each containing at least one cell b transforming or transfecting each of the cells using transformation medium or transfection medium including a nucleic acid oligomer c replacing the transformation medium or transfection medium with growth medium d incubating each of the cells in the growth medium and repeating steps b d until multiple nucleic acid sequences have been introduced into the series of cells in parallel. In certain aspects the series of receptacles are wells of a multi well plate. In other aspects the series of receptacles are cuvettes. In still other aspects each of the series of receptacles contains more than one cell.

The present invention provides novel methods for introducing multiple nucleic acid sequences e.g. engineering genetic mutations in living cells as well as methods for constructing combinatorial libraries in vivo using a variety of microbial plant and or animal cells as well as whole organisms.

In certain embodiments of the invention a pool of nucleic acids e.g. single stranded RNA oligomers single stranded DNA oligomers and the like containing one or more desired mutations is introduced into a set of cells e.g. 50 microliters in a suitable transfection and or transformation medium in a suitable receptacle e.g. .

As used herein the terms nucleic acid molecule nucleic acid sequence nucleic acid fragment and oligomer are used interchangeably and are intended to include but are not limited to a polymeric form of nucleotides that may have various lengths including either deoxyribonucleotides or ribonucleotides or analogs thereof. Oligomers for use in the present invention can be fully designed partially designed i.e. partially randomized or fully randomized. In certain aspects of the invention a pool of nucleic acids contains single stranded 90 mers of DNA.

Oligomers can be modified at one or more positions to enhance stability introduced during chemical synthesis or subsequent enzymatic modification or polymerase copying. These modifications include but are not limited to the inclusion of one or more alkylated nucleic acids locked nucleic acids LNAs peptide nucleic acids PNAs phosphonates phosphothioates and the like in the oligomer. Examples of modified nucleotides include but are not limited to 5 fluorouracil 5 bromouracil 5 chlorouracil 5 iodouracil hypoxanthine xantine 4 acetylcytosine 5 carboxyhydroxylmethyl uracil 5 carboxymethylaminomethyl 2 thiouridine 5 carboxymethylaminomethyluracil dihydrouracil beta D galactosylqueosine inosine N6 isopentenyladenine 1 methylguanine 1 methylinosine 2 2 dimethylguanine 2 methyladenine 2 methylguanine 3 methylcytosine 5 methylcytosine N6 adenine 7 methylguanine 5 methylaminomethyluracil 5 methoxyaminomethyl 2 thiouracil beta D mannosylqueosine 5 methoxycarboxymethyluracil 5 methoxyuracil 2 methylthio D46 isopentenyladenine uracil 5 oxyacetic acid v wybutoxosine pseudouracil queosine 2 thiocytosine 5 methyl 2 thiouracil 2 thiouracil 4 thiouracil 5 methyluracil uracil 5 oxyacetic acid methylester uracil 5 oxyacetic acid v 5 methyl 2 thiouracil 3 3 amino 3 N 2 carboxypropyl uracil acp3 w 2 6 diaminopurine and the like. Nucleic acid molecules may also be modified at the base moiety sugar moiety or phosphate backbone.

The multiple nucleic acid sequences can be targeted for delivery to target prokaryotic or eukaryotic cells via conventional transformation or transfection techniques. As used herein the terms transformation and transfection are intended to refer to a variety of art recognized techniques for introducing an exogenous nucleic acid sequence e.g. DNA into a target cell including calcium phosphate or calcium chloride co precipitation DEAE dextran mediated transfection lipofection electroporation optoporation injection and the like. Suitable transfection media include but are not limited to water CaCl cationic polymers lipids and the like. Suitable materials and methods for transforming or transfecting target cells can be found in Sambrook et al. Molecular Cloning A Laboratory Manual. 2nd ed. Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press Cold Spring Harbor N.Y. 1989 and other laboratory manuals. In certain aspects of the invention oligomer concentrations of 0.1 to 0.5 micromolar per oligomer are used.

Useful receptacles for transfection and or transformation include receptacles routinely used by those of skill in the arts of transfection transformation and microfluidics. Suitable receptacles for use in the present invention include but are not limited to microfuge tubes test tubes cuvettes microscope slides multi well plates microfibers flow systems and the like.

During and or subsequent to transfection and or transformation the incubation temperature of the cells can be adjusted typically 4 C. while introducing DNA and 30 to 40 C. during growth by passing thermo regulated e.g. humid air through the bottom stage of a device or by passing ambient air or fluid through a jacket.

After transfection and or transformation fresh growth media can be placed in the lower chamber diluting the cells e.g. increasing the volume 20 to 1 ml . Without intending to be bound by theory since transfection and or transformation can be accompanied by cell death 1 survival after 7 cell doublings at about 30 minutes each at 32 C. the cells will have recovered. The cells can be mixed and or aerated by pumping humid air into the lower chamber.

The cells can be washed and concentrated e.g. 20 in transfection and or transformation medium. Optionally optical density e.g. at OD 600 nm can be measured in the receptacle e.g. a transparent cuvette and a feedback loop used to adjust dilution and or timing of the cycles. Other measures of cell density and physiological state which can be used include but are not limited to pH dissolved oxygen released enzymes acoustic properties and electrical properties. In certain aspects of the invention the fluids and gases are delivered by automatically controlled valves and or pumps.

It is important to minimize fouling of the receptacle e.g. the cuvette and or filter that occurs during growth or due to debris of cells that have died from various stresses during transformation transfection and or cell culturing. This is alleviated somewhat by having fluids traveling in two directions through optional membranes present in the receptacle. Suitable membranes include membranes and or filters routinely used in molecular cell biology such as those made of cellulose nitrate cellulose acetate nylon and the like. The pore size of suitable membranes can vary e.g. 0.45 micron or 0.22 micron pore size . In certain aspects the receptacle can be coated with a substance that binds fouling materials and or cell debris such as PEG. In other aspects cells with a reduced tendency to foul or an enhanced tendency to digest lysis products can be selected.

The top portion of a receptacle can optionally be covered with a second membrane to prevent incoming and outgoing microbes i.e. contamination . Various anti foam products can optionally be used to prevent fouling of the second membrane. A parallel set of receptacles e.g. cuvettes wells and the like can be used to allow alternating cycles of optionally automatic cleaning and sterilization of cells and re use. In certain aspects of the invention the receptacles are arranged in an array format compatible with standard 9 mm or 4.5 mm or 3 mm multi well plates.

In order to reduce background of cells less competent in transfection oligomers can be included which encode a gene that confers antibiotic resistance or growth on minimal media with selected nutrients added . Alternating the introduction of alleles which eliminate and create these properties allows many cycles of strain manipulation and selection for cells which are adapted to the methods described herein. Optionally genes involved in uptake of DNA recombination and or selection can be induced and or repressed.

Suitable antibiotic resistance genes include but are not limited to genes such as ampicillin resistance gene tetracycline resistance gene kanamycin resistance gene neomycin resistance gene canavanine resistance gene blasticidin resistance gene hygromycin resistance gene puromycin resistance gene chloramphenicol resistance gene and the like.

A suitable gene whose expression enables growth on minimal media is a gene that can allow growth in the absence of an essential nutrient such as an amino acid. For example in the absence of thymine and thymidine cells expressing the thyA gene survive while cells not expressing this gene do not. A variety of suitable genes that allow for growth on minimal media such as thyA are known in the art and can be utilized in the present invention.

Visually detectable markers are also suitable for use in the present invention and may be positively and negatively selected and or screened using technologies such as fluorescence activated cell sorting FACS or microfluidics. Examples of detectable markers include various enzymes prosthetic groups fluorescent markers luminescent markers bioluminescent markers and the like. Examples of suitable fluorescent proteins include but are not limited to yellow fluorescent protein YFP green fluorescence protein GFP cyan fluorescence protein CFP umbelliferone fluorescein fluorescein isothiocyanate rhodamine dichlorotriazinylamine fluorescein dansyl chloride phycoerythrin and the like. Examples of suitable bioluminescent markers include but are not limited to luciferase e.g. bacterial firefly click beetle and the like luciferin aequorin and the like. Examples of suitable enzyme systems having visually detectable signals include but are not limited to galactosidases glucorinidases phosphatases peroxidases cholinesterases and the like.

A target cell can be any prokaryotic or eukaryotic cell. For example target cells can be bacterial cells such as cells insect cells such as cells plant cells such as cells yeast cells amphibian cells such as cells nematode cells such as cells or mammalian cells such as Chinese hamster ovary cells CHO mouse cells African green monkey kidney cells COS fetal human cells 293T or other human cells . Other suitable target cells are known to those skilled in the art. Both cultured and explanted cells may be used according to the invention. The present invention is also adaptable for in vivo use using viral vectors including but not limited to replication defective retroviruses adenoviruses adeno associated viruses and the like.

According to certain embodiments of the invention a cell is deficient in one or more DNA repair enzymes e.g. a mismatch repair deficient strain such as mutS is utilized so that there is either no repair or random repair of an incoming oligomer on the lagging strand of DNA replication. Without intending to be bound by theory after full segregation one would expect on average one in four daughter DNAs to include a nucleic acid sequence like the mutagenic oligomer sequence. Using a mismatch repair deficient strain if the incoming oligomer has an N6 A preferentially in a GATC sequence in a dam strain the incoming oligomer would have a higher probability of being treated as the old DNA strand and hence the template strand would be nicked by the mutH enzyme and corrected by nuclease polymerase ligase action. Without intending to be bound by theory this can raise the theoretical average of allele replacement from 25 to 50 . Strains containing mutH which recognizes a broader range of heteroduplexes of N6 A oligo and native DNA e.g. GATT GACC and the like are desirable for applying this to a broader set of sites in the genome.

The term DNA repair enzyme as used herein refers to one or more enzymes that correct errors in nucleic acid structure and sequence i.e. recognizes binds and corrects abnormal base pairing in a nucleic acid duplex. Examples of DNA repair enzymes include but are not limited to proteins such as mutH mutL mutM mutS mutY dam thymidine DNA glycosylase TDG uracil DNA glycosylase AlkA MLH1 MSH2 MSH3 MSH6 Exonuclease I T4 endonuclease V Exonuclease V RecJ exonuclease FEN1 RAD27 dnaQ mutD polC dnaE or combinations thereof as well as homologs orthologs paralogs variants or fragments of the forgoing. Enzymatic systems capable of recognition and correction of base pairing errors within the DNA helix have been demonstrated in bacteria fungi mammalian cells and the like.

Target cells useful in the present invention include human cells including but not limited to embryonic cells fetal cells and adult stem cells. Human stem cells may be obtained for example from a variety of sources including embryos obtained through in vitro fertilization from umbilical cord blood from bone marrow and the like. In one aspect of the invention target human cells are useful as donor compatible cells for transplantation e.g. via alteration of surface antigens of non compatible third party donor cells or through the correction of genetic defect in cells obtained from the intended recipient patient. In another aspect of the invention target human cells are useful for the production of therapeutic proteins peptides antibodies and the like.

The target cells of the invention can also be used to produce nonhuman transgenic knockout or other genetically modified animals. Such animals include those in which a genome chromosome gene or nucleic acid is altered in part e.g. by base substitutions and or small or large insertions and or deletions of target nucleic acid sequences. For example in one embodiment a target cell of the invention is a fertilized oocyte or an embryonic stem cell into which the addition of multiple nucleic acid sequences has been performed. Such target cells can then be used to create non human transgenic animals in which multiple nucleic acid sequences have been introduced into their genome. As used herein a transgenic animal is a non human animal such as a mammal e.g. a rodent such as a ferret guinea pig rat mouse or the like or a lagomorph such as a rabbit in which one or more of the cells of the animal includes a transgene. Other examples of transgenic animals include non human primates cows goats sheep pigs dogs cats chickens amphibians and the like. A transgene is exogenous DNA that is integrated into the genome of a cell from which a transgenic animal develops and which remains in the genome of the mature animal. A knockout is the removal of endogenous DNA from a cell from which a knockout animal develops which remains deleted from the genome of the mature animal. Methods for generating transgenic and knockout animals via embryo manipulation and microinjection particularly animals such as mice have become conventional in the art and are described for example in U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 736 866 and 4 870 009 both by Leder et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 873 191 by Wagner et al. and in Hogan B. Manipulating the Mouse Embryo Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press Cold Spring Harbor N.Y. 1986 .

This invention is further illustrated by the following example which should not be construed as limiting. The contents of all references patents and published patent applications cited throughout this application are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety for all purposes.

Without intending to be bound by theory using n 25 oligomers acting independently each with an efficiency e 0.2 using c 30 cycles 6 days a probability of 1 1 e n c 97 of achieving all 25 allele replacements in each cell e.g. clone will be expected. Screening a few such colonies by allele specific DNA assays e.g. by hybridization ligation polymerase and the like and or whole genome or selected region sequencing will determine which are complete. If certain alleles are consistently missing this could be due to a defective oligomer for that site or due to a deleterious change in the genome in which case a new design work around will be created. Use of chemical induction of the beta gene and or other ss DNA binding proteins rather than heat induction will be employed to improve efficiency and or permit protocols requiring that the temperature be controlled for one or more other purposes.

Other embodiments will be evident to those of skill in the art. It should be understood that the foregoing description is provided for clarity only and is merely exemplary. The spirit and scope of the present invention are not limited to the above example but are encompassed by the claims. All publications patents and patent applications cited above are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety for all purposes to the same extent as if each individual publication or patent application were specifically indicated to be so incorporated by reference.

