---

title: Enhanced manageability in wireless data communication systems
abstract: A cellular network system comprises a device identifier comparator and a connection enable indicator. A device identifier comparator for comparing a received device identifier with one of a plurality of stored device identifiers, wherein the one of the stored plurality of stored device identifiers is associated with a stored subscriber identifier. A connection enable indicator for indicating whether a connection from a cellular device associated with the received device identifier to a data network associated with the cellular network system should be enabled.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08644840&OS=08644840&RS=08644840
owner: Jasper Wireless Inc.
number: 08644840
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120402
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 004 653 entitled ENHANCED MANAGEABILITY IN WIRELESS DATA COMMUNICATION SYSTEMS filed Nov. 29 2007 claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 004 654 entitled ENHANCED PROVISIONING LOGISTICS AUTOMATION FOR WIRELESS DATA COMMUNICATION SYSTEMS filed Nov. 29 2007 and claims priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 315 178 entitled ENHANCED MANAGEABILITY IN WIRELESS DATA COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEMS filed Nov. 26 2008 which is incorporated herein by reference for all purposes.

In some applications of cellular communication services a service provider negotiates an advantageous billing rate per volume of data transfer between a device and a cellular communications network based on the specific needs of the service the service provider is providing to its customers. For example a customer requires regular transmissions of very small amounts of data and negotiates an advantageous rate based on a guarantee of a small total data transfer volume. The service provider and the cellular communication network have an interest in ensuring that the customer is not able to use the cellular communication service outside of the negotiated parameters.

The invention can be implemented in numerous ways including as a process an apparatus a system a composition of matter a computer program product embodied on a computer readable storage medium and or a processor such as a processor configured to execute instructions stored on and or provided by a memory coupled to the processor. In this specification these implementations or any other form that the invention may take may be referred to as techniques. In general the order of the steps of disclosed processes may be altered within the scope of the invention. Unless stated otherwise a component such as a processor or a memory described as being configured to perform a task may be implemented as a general component that is temporarily configured to perform the task at a given time or a specific component that is manufactured to perform the task. As used herein the term processor refers to one or more devices circuits and or processing cores configured to process data such as computer program instructions.

A detailed description of one or more embodiments of the invention is provided below along with accompanying figures that illustrate the principles of the invention. The invention is described in connection with such embodiments but the invention is not limited to any embodiment. The scope of the invention is limited only by the claims and the invention encompasses numerous alternatives modifications and equivalents. Numerous specific details are set forth in the following description in order to provide a thorough understanding of the invention. These details are provided for the purpose of example and the invention may be practiced according to the claims without some or all of these specific details. For the purpose of clarity technical material that is known in the technical fields related to the invention has not been described in detail so that the invention is not unnecessarily obscured.

Enhanced manageability in wireless data communication systems is disclosed. A system implementing enhanced manageability comprises a rule based authentication server for verifying that a particular combination of subscriber identity module SIM and device are allowed to use a network e.g. a data network of a cellular phone network . Identification information associated with the SIM and the device are communicated with the network. The network in conjunction with a service provider determines acceptable accessibility between the device e.g. a device provided by the service provider and the network.

In some embodiments the network comprises a global system for mobile communications GSM protocol network. The GSM network includes a username and a password for verification when a device registers with a general packet radio service GPRS data network overlaid on the GSM cellular network. The username fields and the password fields are used to provide device and SIM identification information to the network. In some networks the username and password verification are not used and either no data or meaningless data is are transmitted. The network and or service provider e.g. an authentication server and or a service provider server determines the appropriate action based on the identification numbers and a set of rules. In various embodiments the appropriate action includes one or more of the following allowing access denying access alerting a customer of a change in a device being used with a given SIM logging the current device SIM combination or any other appropriate server action.

In various embodiments the relationship between a customer and a cellular communications service provider is direct or is arranged by a third party e.g. a service provider . In some embodiments a guarantee of data transfer volume is based on the requirements of a device e.g. a service provider provided device specific to the customer s desired application e.g. a point of sale device a credit card reader a credit card approval device . To prevent an account being used with a device requiring higher data transfer which is outside of a desired network usage parameters e.g. data transfer volume usage access times number of accesses etc. one or more conditions are enforced on a device used in conjunction with the account e.g. as coupled to a user or customer via a SIM . In various embodiments the one or more conditions comprise a prevention of a swapping of a SIM from a device to another device a limitation on devices or kinds of devices to which the SIM can be swapped a tracking of devices the SIM has been swapped to or any other appropriate condition.

In various embodiments device information is encoded into a username field user account subscriber customer information is encoded into a username field device information is encoded into a password field user account subscriber customer information is encoded into a password field device information is encoded into a username field and a password field user account subscriber customer information is encoded into a username field and a password field device information is partially encoded into a username field and or a password field user or account or subscriber or customer information is partially encoded into a username field and or a password field any other appropriate allocation of information between device user account subscriber customer or other information and a username field and or a password field. In some embodiments the encoding comprises a secure encoding a tamper proof encoding no encoding an error checking encoding or any other appropriate encoding. In various embodiments a username field and or a password field is subdivided to provide storage space for one or more of the following a production date a sign up date an expiration date a maintenance date an account type a rule set version an encoding version service provider identifier a home network identifier a revision number or any other appropriate information.

In some embodiments a username and password are not set up in advanced. In some embodiments the username and or password are established on first or subsequent login attempts. In some embodiments a customer or a device indicates a different username and or password on a login attempt based at least in part on the device identifier associated with the device that a user or customer is using to connect to a network.

In some embodiments the username and or password fields are or are not used for authentication. In some embodiments the username and or password fields are used for passing other information e.g. device identity enabling management of a user and or customer account regarding allowed device s for a given user s and or customer s interaction with a network.

Although the following description focuses on a GSM type cellular network this should not be construed as limiting as other embodiments using other cellular network types e.g. CDMA TDMA etc. are implementable to one practiced in the art.

Wireless data network comprises serving GPRS support node SGSN gateway GPRS support node GGSN and authentication server . SGSN sends data packets to and receives data packets from a cellular device e.g. cellular device and communicates data with GGSN . GGSN serves as an interface between wireless data network and external data network . GGSN communicates with SGSN and with the external data network and translates the data packets into the appropriate formats for the devices on each side. In some embodiments there is more than one GGSN in a given wireless data network each GGSN connecting to the same SGSN. In some embodiments each GGSN connects to the same external data network. In some embodiments a plurality of GGSNs connect to one or more different data networks. GGSN also connects to authentication server . In some embodiments GGSN uses authentication server to authenticate a user of the wireless network before allowing the user to connect to data network .

In some embodiments authentication server receives authentication information including several fields including a SIM identification field a username field and a password field. The username field and the password field convey information regarding a device identifier and a user or subscriber or customer or account identifier. In some embodiments authentication server uses the device identifier and user subscriber customer account information to evaluate whether an interaction of the device and user subscriber customer account satisfies one or more conditions. In various embodiments the one or more conditions comprise an acceptable pairing or an unacceptable pairing of the device and the user subscriber customer account or any other appropriate condition. In various embodiments condition leads to whether the pairing is allowed is denied is logged causes an alert to be sent or any other appropriate action led to as a result of the condition.

Processor comprises device identifier comparator and connection enable indicator . Device identifier comparator compares a received device identifier e.g. a number an alphanumeric code or any other appropriate identifier with a stored device identifier. In some embodiments a device identifier is associated with a user account customer. In some embodiments the received device identity number is received from a GGSN. In some embodiments the received device identity number is received along with an IMSI number. In some embodiments the stored device identity number is retrieved from device rules database . Connection enable indicator indicates to the GGSN whether a connection from a cellular device to a data network should be enabled.

In various embodiments the device identifier comparator determines one of the following that the received device identifier is the same as the one of the plurality of stored device identifiers or that the received device identifier is not the same as the one of the plurality of stored device identifiers. In some embodiments the connection enable indicator indicates the connection should be enabled based at least in part on the determination of the device identifier comparator. In some embodiments the connection enable indicator indicates the connection should be enabled based at least in part on a set of rules. In various embodiments the set of rules indicates one or more of the following whether a received device identifier is to be stored whether a received device identifier is not to be stored whether a storing of a received device identifier is to be logged whether a storing of a received device identifier is not to be logged whether the connection is to be allowed whether the connection is to be denied whether the allowance of the connection is to be logged whether the denial of the connection is to be logged whether a received device identifier is whether an alert is to be sent whether an alert is to be logged or any other appropriate rule.

In some embodiments a device identifier comprises a numeric identifier an alphanumeric identifier a binary identifier or any other appropriate identifier.

Device rules database also stores an ID mismatch action associated with each IMSI number. The ID mismatch action specifies the authentication action for the processor to take if the stored device ID does not match the received. If the ID copy rule associated with the IMSI number is None the processor takes the authentication action associated with the stored ID mismatch action without comparing the stored device ID and the received device ID. An ID mismatch action of Allow indicates that the connection enable indicator should command the GGSN to allow the cellular device to connect to the data network. An ID mismatch action of Allow And Alert indicates that the connection enable indicator should command the GGSN to allow the cellular device to connect to the data network and also set an alert flag indicating that there was an ID mismatch. The alert flag is displayed on an alert display e.g. alert display of when set. An ID mismatch action of Deny indicates that the connection enable indicator should command the GGSN not to allow the cellular device to connect to the data network. An ID mismatch action of Deny And Alert indicates that the connection enable indicator should command the GGSN not to allow the cellular device to connect to the data network and also set an alert flag indicating that there was an ID mismatch. The alert flag is displayed on an alert display e.g. alert display of when set.

In various embodiments the device ID ID copy rule and ID mismatch action associated with an IMSI number are set by a system administrator set to a default value set directly by the customer or set by any other appropriate method. In the example shown values in device rules database are initialized to default values and can be modified by a customer service representative when instructed to do so by a customer. The device ID stored in device rules database is also updated whenever appropriate based on the ID copy rule.

In the example shown the device identifier comparator compares the stored device ID with the received device ID for Copy Always and Locked ID copy rule conditions. The device identifier comparator does not compare the stored device ID with the received device ID for None and Copy Once ID copy rule conditions. If the stored device ID matches the received device ID the connection enable indicator commands the GGSN to allow the cellular device to connect to the data network. In the event that the ID copy rule condition is None Copy Always or Copy Once the action applied on mismatch is that a connection is not denied e.g. allowed . In the event that the ID copy rule condition is Locked the action applied on mismatch is that a connection is denied e.g. not allowed for ID mismatch action rule condition of Deny and Deny and Alert. In the event that the ID copy rule condition is Locked the action applied on mismatch is that a connection is not denier e.g. allowed for ID mismatch action rule condition of Allow and Allow and Alert. If a connection is not denied the connection enable indicator commands the GGSN to allow e.g. enable the connection the cellular device to connect to the data network If a connection is denied the connection enable indicator commands the GGSN not to allow e.g. deny the connection the cellular device to connect to the data network. The processor sets the alert flag if the IDs do not match and the ID Mismatch Action is set to Allow and Alert or Deny and Alert and the ID copy rule condition is Copy Always and Locked . The processor copies the received device ID to the device rules database if the IDs do not match and the ID Copy Rule is set to Copy Always or Copy Once .

The process logs the received Device ID s denial and or alert. In some embodiments there are conditions in which there is no logging of the Device ID s denial and or alert.

In some embodiments the PDP setup procedure comprises transmitting a username and password from the cellular device to the GGSN. In various embodiments the username and password are manually entered by the user are stored in the cellular device contain blank data contain data that are the same for every user on the network contain data identifying the IMSI number e.g. IMSI number of and the device ID e.g. device ID of of the cellular device or contain any other appropriate data. In the example shown the username and or password contain data identifying the IMSI number and the device ID of the cellular device. In various embodiments the IMSI number is transmitted in the username field and the device ID is transmitted in the password field the device ID is transmitted in the username field and the IMSI number is transmitted in the password field both the IMSI number and the device ID are transmitted in the username field both the IMSI number and the device ID are transmitted in the password field the IMSI number and the device ID are transmitted in both the username field and the password field the IMSI number or other identifier or other information and or the device ID are encoded securely encoded error check coded the IMSI number and the device ID are transmitted in a portion of the username field and or the password field or the device ID and the IMSI number are transmitted in the username and password field in any other appropriate way. When the GGSN has verified that the cellular device should be allowed to connect to the data network the GGSN then sets up a session and creates a connection through the SGSN from the cellular device to the newly set up session on the data network.

If the device IDs are not found to match in control passes to . In the connection is allowed according to the mismatch action associated with the IMSI number. If the mismatch action is Allow or Allow And Alert the connection enable indicator instructs the GGSN to allow the connection and if the mismatch action is Deny or Deny And Alert the connection enable indicator instructs the GGSN to deny the connection. In the alert is set according to the mismatch action. If the mismatch action is Allow And Alert or Deny And Alert the alert is set. The alert flag is displayed on an alert display e.g. alert display of when set. In the device ID is copied to the database according to the copy rule. If the copy rule is Copy Always or Copy Once the received device ID is copied to the database. If the copy rule is Copy Once the copy rule is then set to Locked . Control passes to where the transaction is logged and the process ends.

In some embodiments a receiver receives a username and or password from a device a data storer stores the username and or the password and an authenticator authenticates a subsequently received username and or password from the device using the stored username or the stored password e.g. seeing if the stored and subsequently received username and or the password match . In various embodiments the username and or password are received stored and or authenticated by a wireless data network authentication server e.g. of by a server attached to an external data network or any other appropriate server.

In some embodiments a receiver receives a username and or a password from a device the receiver receives a subscriber identifier from the device a mapper maps the received subscriber identifier to a SIM identifier e.g. the mapper associates the subscriber identifier to a subscriber identity module identifier for example one or more of the following an international mobile subscriber identity an integrated circuit card identifier an issuer identification number an individual account identification etc. a data storer for storing the mapping between the device ID and the SIM identifier and a provider for providing the mapping between the device ID and the SIM identifier. In various embodiments the username and or password and or subscriber identifier are received mapped stored and or provided by a wireless data network authentication server e.g. of by a server attached to an external data network or any other appropriate server.

Although the foregoing embodiments have been described in some detail for purposes of clarity of understanding the invention is not limited to the details provided. There are many alternative ways of implementing the invention. The disclosed embodiments are illustrative and not restrictive.

