---

title: System and method for scheduling calendar events
abstract: Disclosed are systems, methods, and non-transitory computer-readable storage media for scheduling calendar events. An exemplary method includes receiving, from a requesting device, an invite request referencing a network address associated with a calendar for a target user, wherein the network address is encoded in a machine-readable code from which the requesting device extracted the network address. The method then includes, sending a preauthorized availability for the calendar of the target/service user to the requesting device, wherein the availability is for a predetermined time length. The method then includes receiving a selection of a desired meeting time within the preauthorized availability from the requesting device and creating a calendar event according to the received selected desired meeting time.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08275837&OS=08275837&RS=08275837
owner: Vizibility Inc.
number: 08275837
owner_city: New York
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120612
---
This application claims priority to United States Non Provisional patent application Ser. No. 13 436 755 filed 30 Mar. 2012 U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 533 549 filed 12 Sep. 2011 and U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 654 722 filed 1 Jun. 2012 the contents of which are herein incorporated by reference in their entirety.

The present disclosure relates to enabling access to pre authorized calendar data to schedule calendar events.

Often individuals meet at networking events and share business cards resumes or other contact information. Later after the networking event the individuals may wish to set up a meeting. Users can attempt to schedule a meeting on the spot but one or the other may not have a computing device their battery may be dead and even if they can schedule a meeting social protocol may prohibit or look down on lengthy interactions with a mobile phone or tablet during such networking events. Accordingly what is needed in the art is a way to enhance the scheduling of meetings.

Additional features and advantages of the disclosure will be set forth in the description which follows and in part will be obvious from the description or can be learned by practice of the herein disclosed principles. The features and advantages of the disclosure can be realized and obtained by means of the instruments and combinations particularly pointed out in the appended claims. These and other features of the disclosure will become more fully apparent from the following description and appended claims or can be learned by the practice of the principles set forth herein.

Disclosed are systems methods and non transitory computer readable storage media for scheduling calendar events. An exemplary computer implemented method includes receiving from a requesting device associated with a requestor an invite request referencing a network address associated with a calendar for a target user wherein the network address is encoded in a machine readable code from which the requesting device extracted the network address. In one example the machine readable code is a QR code a Microsoft TAG a matrix bar code a wireless near field communication signal a RFID signal a Bluetooth signal a short range wireless signal a uniquely identifiable image or a uniquely identifiable biometric code. The method then includes sending a preauthorized availability for the calendar of the target user to the requesting device wherein the availability is for a predetermined time length. The method then includes receiving a selection of a desired meeting time within the preauthorized availability from the requesting device. The method further includes creating a calendar event according to the received selected desired meeting time.

In one embodiment the method includes automatically placing the calendar event on the target user calendar via an API and updating the preauthorized availability to exclude the placed calendar event. In another embodiment the example includes sending the calendar event to the target user calendar detecting acceptance of the calendar event and updating the preauthorized availability to exclude the placed calendar event. In another embodiment the presenting the preauthorized availability for the target user further includes only presenting mutual availabilities for the target user and requestor. Another embodiment includes pre populating the calendar event with at least one of date time duration one or more invitees phone number web share URL location notes and a link to a user profile.

Various embodiments of the disclosure are discussed in detail below. While specific implementations are discussed it should be understood that this is done for illustration purposes only. A person skilled in the relevant art will recognize that other components and configurations may be used without parting from the spirit and scope of the disclosure.

The present disclosure addresses the need in the art for enhancing calendar scheduling. A brief introductory description of a basic general purpose system or computing device in which can be employed to practice the concepts is disclosed herein. A more detailed description of the exemplary approaches and sample infrastructure will then follow. These variations shall be discussed herein as the various embodiments are set forth. The disclosure now turns to .

With reference to an exemplary system includes a general purpose computing device including a processing unit CPU or processor and a system bus that couples various system components including the system memory such as read only memory RUM and random access memory RAM to the processor . The system can include a cache of high speed memory connected directly with in close proximity to or integrated as part of the processor . The system copies data from the memory and or the storage device to the cache for quick access by the processor . In this way the cache provides a performance boost that avoids processor delays while waiting for data. These and other modules can control or be configured to control the processor to perform various actions. Other system memory may be available for use as well. The memory can include multiple different types of memory with different performance characteristics. It can be appreciated that the disclosure may operate on a computing device with more than one processor or on a group or cluster of computing devices networked together to provide greater processing capability. The processor can include any general purpose processor and a hardware module or software module such as module module and module stored in storage device configured to control the processor as well as a special purpose processor where software instructions are incorporated into the actual processor design. The processor may essentially be a completely self contained computing system containing multiple cores or processors a bus memory controller cache etc. A multi core processor may be symmetric or asymmetric.

The system bus may be any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus and a local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. A basic input output BIOS stored in ROM or the like may provide the basic routine that helps to transfer information between elements within the computing device such as during start up. The computing device further includes storage devices such as a hard disk drive a magnetic disk drive an optical disk drive tape drive or the like. The storage device can include software modules for controlling the processor . Other hardware or software modules are contemplated. The storage device is connected to the system bus by a drive interface. The drives and the associated computer readable storage media provide nonvolatile storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computing device . In one aspect a hardware module that performs a particular function includes the software component stored in a non transitory computer readable medium in connection with the necessary hardware components such as the processor bus display and so forth to carry out the function. The basic components are known to those of skill in the art and appropriate variations are contemplated depending on the type of device such as whether the device is a small handheld computing device a desktop computer or a computer server.

Although the exemplary embodiment described herein employs the hard disk it should be appreciated by those skilled in the art that other types of computer readable media which can store data that are accessible by a computer such as magnetic cassettes flash memory cards digital versatile disks cartridges random access memories RAMS read only memory ROM a cable or wireless signal containing a bit stream and the like may also be used in the exemplary operating environment. Non transitory computer readable storage media expressly exclude media such as energy carrier signals electromagnetic waves and signals per se.

To enable user interaction with the computing device an input device represents any number of input mechanisms such as a microphone for speech a touch sensitive screen for gesture or graphical input keyboard mouse motion input speech and so forth. An output device can also be one or more of a number of output mechanisms known to those of skill in the art. In some instances multimodal systems enable a user to provide multiple types of input to communicate with the computing device . The communications interface generally governs and manages the user input and system output. There is no restriction on operating on any particular hardware arrangement and therefore the basic features here may easily be substituted for improved hardware or firmware arrangements as they are developed.

For clarity of explanation the illustrative system embodiment is presented as including individual functional blocks including functional blocks labeled as a processor or processor . The functions these blocks represent may be provided through the use of either shared or dedicated hardware including but not limited to hardware capable of executing software and hardware such as a processor that is purpose built to operate as an equivalent to software executing on a general purpose processor. For example the functions of one or more processors presented in may be provided by a single shared processor or multiple processors. Use of the term processor should not be construed to refer exclusively to hardware capable of executing software. Illustrative embodiments may include microprocessor and or digital signal processor DSP hardware read only memory ROM for storing software performing the operations discussed below and random access memory RAM for storing results. Very large scale integration VLSI hardware embodiments as well as custom VLSI circuitry in combination with a general purpose DSP circuit may also be provided.

The logical operations of the various embodiments are implemented as 1 a sequence of computer implemented steps operations or procedures running on a programmable circuit within a general use computer 2 a sequence of computer implemented steps operations or procedures running on a specific use programmable circuit and or 3 interconnected machine modules or program engines within the programmable circuits. The system shown in can practice all or part of the recited methods can be a part of the recited systems and or can operate according to instructions in the recited non transitory computer readable storage media. Such logical operations can be implemented as modules configured to control the processor to perform particular functions according to the programming of the module. For example illustrates three modules Mod Mod and Mod which are modules configured to control the processor . These modules may be stored on the storage device and loaded into RAM or memory at runtime or may be stored as would be known in the art in other computer readable memory locations.

Continuing with at step the service provider receives selected days for a preauthorized availability. In other words the service user can select e.g. preauthorize days on which he she is available for meetings appointments then the selected days are received by the service. At step the service user can select preauthorize hours e.g. on the selected days at which he she is available. The service provider receives the selected hours for the service user s preauthorized availability. At step the service user can select a length of time for the duration of appointments the service provider receives the selected length of time for appointments for the service user s preauthorized availability. At step the service provider receives a recurrence interval for the preauthorized availability selected by the service user. For example the service user can preauthorize every other Monday at 3 00 pm to be available for a 15 minute appointment. At step the service provider receives text to appear in a created calendar event the text being selected inputted by the service user. For example the service user can input text such as Please remember to provide an agenda. Looking forward to this appointment. At step the selected days hours recurrence and length of time are saved by the service. Optionally at step the service automatically puts the preauthorized availability on the e.g. 1 n connected calendar services if any via API s. Alternatively or additionally at step the service system sends the preauthorized availability as a calendar invite in a standardized format e.g. via e mail and at step the service user accepts confirms the calendar invite. At step the service records the preauthorized availability. The service user e.g. host is now configured with a preauthorized availability before any scheduling requests have been received.

At step the service can receive a command from the service user to modify the preauthorized availability by deleting a desired portion. At step a calendar adjustment file is sent to the calendar or the adjustment is made to the e.g. 1 n connected calendar services automatically via an API. At step the service records the adjusted modified updated preauthorized availability.

Optionally at step the requestor s calendar e.g. including third party calendar services can connect to the service. At step the service accesses both the requestor s and service user s calendars and identifies mutual availabilities. The service then presents the mutual availabilities to the requestor. Optionally at step the requestor can request more time options if the presented pre authorized availability is deemed not desirable.

At step the service receives a selected desired meeting time from the requestor. At step the service creates an event in on the user s attendee s requestor s computing device calendar or on the mobile landing page. In one example the service automatically populates the event with date time duration invitee s phone number s web share URL s location notes and or links to mobile business cards MBC s of the user attendee requestor and or the service user host. Optionally at step the service can connect communicate via APIs with conference call and web meeting services regarding the created calendar event.

Optionally at step the service places the event on calendars e.g. including third party calendar services of the host and or the requestor automatically via an API. Additionally or alternatively at step the service sends a calendar meeting request s to the service user and the requestor and at step the service user and requestor accept or decline the calendar meeting request s . At step the service records a modified updated preauthorized availability for the service user for example if the service user and the requestor accept e.g. at step the calendar meeting request for the selected desired time period then the selected desired time period can be removed from the preauthorized availability of the service user host.

At step a calendar event can be deleted by the service user and or by the requestor. At step a request is sent to the service reflecting the deletion. At step the service receives the request and modifies and stores the new updated preauthorized availability.

Moreover as shown in the preauthorized availability for the service user can be synched with the service user s third party calendar services such as those associated with GMail Outlook and or iCloud.

In after the requesting user selects a confirm button an event is created in a device calendar and or on a mobile landing page. The event can be pre populated with date time duration invitee s phone number s web share URL s reason description for meeting a custom event agenda and or other event information.

The disclosure now turns to exemplary method embodiments. For the sake of clarity the methods are discussed in terms of an exemplary system as shown in configured to practice the method. The steps outlined herein are exemplary and can be implemented in any combination thereof including combinations that exclude add or modify certain steps.

In one embodiment the system receives from a requesting device associated with a requestor an invite request referencing a network address associated with a calendar for a target user wherein the network address is encoded in a machine readable code from which the requesting device extracted the network address. In one example the machine readable code is a QR code a Microsoft TAG a matrix bar code a wireless near field communication signal a RFID signal a Bluetooth signal a short range wireless signal a uniquely identifiable image or a uniquely identifiable biometric code. The system then sends a preauthorized availability for the calendar of the target user to the requesting device wherein the availability is for a predetermined time length. The system then receives a selection of a desired meeting time within the preauthorized availability from the requesting device. The system then creates a calendar event according to the received selected desired meeting time.

In one example the system can automatically place the calendar event on the target user calendar via an API and update the preauthorized availability to exclude the placed calendar event. In another example the system can send the calendar event to the target user calendar detect acceptance of the calendar event and update the preauthorized availability to exclude the placed calendar event. In another example when the server presents the preauthorized availability for the target user the server only presents mutual availabilities for the target user and requestor. In another example the server can pre populating the calendar event with at least one of date time duration one or more invitees phone number web share URL location notes and a link to a user profile.

In some embodiments third party calendar services can provide their own API s for the service provider to utilize in establishing connections and or communicating with the calendar services. For example third party calendar services such as iCal on Apple computers or Calendar on iPhones can provide means to communicate with their calendar databases such as EventKit. Similarly for example Google Calendar and Microsoft Outlook also provide API s for application developers.

Embodiments within the scope of the present disclosure may also include tangible and or non transitory computer readable storage media for carrying or having computer executable instructions or data structures stored thereon. Such non transitory computer readable storage media can be any available media that can be accessed by a general purpose or special purpose computer including the functional design of any special purpose processor as discussed above. By way of example and not limitation such non transitory computer readable media can include RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to carry or store desired program code means in the form of computer executable instructions data structures or processor chip design. When information is transferred or provided over a network or another communications connection either hardwired wireless or combination thereof to a computer the computer properly views the connection as a computer readable medium. Thus any such connection is properly termed a computer readable medium. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of the computer readable media.

Computer executable instructions include for example instructions and data which cause a general purpose computer special purpose computer or special purpose processing device to perform a certain function or group of functions. Computer executable instructions also include program modules that are executed by computers in stand alone or network environments. Generally program modules include routines programs components data structures objects and the functions inherent in the design of special purpose processors etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Computer executable instructions associated data structures and program modules represent examples of the program code means for executing steps of the methods disclosed herein. The particular sequence of such executable instructions or associated data structures represents examples of corresponding acts for implementing the functions described in such steps.

Those of skill in the art will appreciate that other embodiments of the disclosure may be practiced in network computing environments with many types of computer system configurations including personal computers hand held devices multi processor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics network PCs minicomputers mainframe computers and the like. Embodiments may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by local and remote processing devices that are linked either by hardwired links wireless links or by a combination thereof through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.

The various embodiments described above are provided by way of illustration only and should not be construed to limit the scope of the disclosure. Those skilled in the art will readily recognize various modifications and changes that may be made to the principles described herein without following the example embodiments and applications illustrated and described herein and without departing from the spirit and scope of the disclosure.

