---

title: Method, medium, and system for determining eligibility for a location-based shipping option for fulfillment networks
abstract: Methods, systems and apparatus are described for determining eligibility for a location-based shipping option for multiple fulfillment networks. Embodiments may send display information to a user in response to a user request for display information for one or more items offered on a network-based site. The display information may be configured to indicated whether items are eligible for an enhanced shipping option based upon the shipping origin of the item and a predicted shipping destination. Some embodiments may provide multiple fulfillment networks with the enhanced shipping option. Some of the fulfillment networks may be controlled by an entity different from the entity controlling the network-based site. In some embodiments the enhanced shipping option is an option within a subscription-based shipping program for the network-based site.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09047607&OS=09047607&RS=09047607
owner: Amazon Technologies
number: 09047607
owner_city: Reno
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120625
---
Manufacturers retailers wholesalers and distributors typically maintain an inventory of various items that may be ordered and shipped to clients or customers. This inventory may be maintained and processed at a materials handling facility or facilities such as distribution centers cross docking facilities and order fulfillment facilities which may be collectively referred to as distribution centers . Fulfillment networks may include one or more distribution centers and may be operated by a distributor manufacturer retailer or wholesalers for example. Generally fulfillment networks may receive orders for items stored in inventory retrieve the ordered items and ship the items to the ordering customer s destination.

With the recent and staggering growth of electronic based commerce virtual storefronts are increasing their offerings to compete in greater numbers with brick and mortar stores. In order to compete with the advantage of traditional stores namely the near instant receipt of purchased items virtual storefronts are developing innovative systems to approximate the same experience. For example subscriber based shipping programs are one method that virtual storefronts have developed to increase consumer confidence in the ability of virtual storefronts to quickly and easily place purchase items into the hands of consumers. As virtual storefronts grow in scale the fulfillment networks that supply the items offered by virtual storefronts are increasingly controlled by distinct entities that may provide their own various methods for delivering purchased items to customers.

While the invention is described herein by way of example for several embodiments and illustrative drawings those skilled in the art will recognize that the invention is not limited to the embodiments or drawings described. It should be understood that the drawings and detailed description thereto are not intended to limit the invention to the particular form disclosed but on the contrary the intention is to cover all modifications equivalents and alternatives falling within the spirit and scope of the present invention. The headings used herein are for organizational purposes only and are not meant to be used to limit the scope of the description. As used throughout this application the word may is used in a permissive sense i.e. meaning having the potential to rather than the mandatory sense i.e. meaning must . Similarly the words include including and includes mean including but not limited to.

In the following detailed description numerous specific details are set forth to provide a thorough understanding of claimed subject matter. However it will be understood by those skilled in the art that claimed subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances methods apparatus or systems that would be known by one of ordinary skill have not been described in detail so as not to obscure claimed subject matter.

It will also be understood that although the terms first second etc. may be used herein to describe various elements these elements should not be limited by these terms. These terms are only used to distinguish one element from another. For example a first contact could be termed a second contact and similarly a second contact could be termed a first contact without departing from the scope of the present invention. The first contact and the second contact are both contacts but they are not the same contact.

The terminology used in the description of the invention herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the invention. As used in the description of the invention and the appended claims the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will also be understood that the term and or as used herein refers to and encompasses any and all possible combinations of one or more of the associated listed items. It will be further understood that the terms includes including comprises and or comprising when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

As used herein the term if may be construed to mean when or upon or in response to determining or in response to detecting depending on the context. Similarly the phrase if it is determined or if a stated condition or event is detected may be construed to mean upon determining or in response to determining or upon detecting the stated condition or event or in response to detecting the stated condition or event depending on the context.

Various embodiments of a method system and apparatus for determining eligibility for a location based shipping option for fulfillment networks are described. Embodiments may send display information to a user for one or more items that may be selected for order in response to a user request to a network based site. Before one of the items is selected by a user embodiments may determine whether the item is eligible for an enhanced shipping option based upon the shipping origin of the item and a predicted shipping destination for the item. In some embodiments this determination may be based on whether the item can be shipped by a shipping entity from the shipping origin to arrive at the predicted shipping destination within a timeframe for the enhanced shipping option using a cost effective shipping technique. A cost effective shipping technique may be a shipping technique such as ground shipping that may be a lower cost shipping technique than other shipping techniques such as air shipping that can ship the item from the origin to predicted destination within the timeframe for the enhanced shipping option. In some embodiments a cost effective shipping technique may be a shipping technique having a shipping cost below a predefined threshold. Display information sent to the user may be configured to indicate whether a particular item is eligible for the enhanced shipping option.

Some embodiments may allow users of network based sites to order items offered by the network based site with an enhanced shipping option. Users may order items offered by one or more fulfillment networks. Some fulfillment networks may be operated or controlled by one or more entities. Moreover some fulfillment networks may be controlled by entities distinct from an entity controlling the network based site. For example a brick and mortar store may offer for order certain items such as action figures it currently carries in its physical store inventory on a network based site that it does not own or control. Some of these distinctly controlled fulfillment networks may fulfill items that are eligible for an enhanced shipping option offered by the network based site. In the above example a customer may order one of the store s action figures through the network based site with an enhanced shipping option that the store s items the action figures are eligible for.

Eligibility for the enhanced shipping option may be determined in various embodiments according to a particular item s shipping origin and the user s predicted shipping destination. Embodiments may determine a particular item s shipping origin by accessing a database that contains the particular item s information such as the shipping origin. Determining a user s predicted shipping destination may implemented in various ways. In some embodiments user information accessible on database may provide a default shipping or billing address. Embodiments may also identify the internet protocol IP address of the user request and perform a geolocation technique on the IP address to determine a location for the predicted shipping destination. Users may supply a shipping destination which may be used as the predicted shipping destination.

Embodiments may determine eligibility for an enhanced shipping option by determining one or more shipping timeframes according to the shipping origin and the predicted shipping destination. Timeframes may be determined by supplying the shipping origin and predicted shipping destination to one or more shipping carriers who return a shipping timeframe based upon the submitted information. Some embodiments may access shipping performance data and calculate a shipping time frame based on the shipping origin and the predicted shipping destination using the shipping performance data. Embodiments may obtain from a shipping carrier delivery destinations such as a list of postal codes according to a shipping origin and a specified delivery timeframe and determine whether the predicted shipping destination is one of the obtained delivery destinations in order to determine whether a particular item is eligible for an enhanced shipping option. In some embodiments the shipping carrier may indicate a delivery area in which items can be shipped from the origin within the specified delivery timeframe using a cost effective shipping technique. A cost effective shipping technique may be a shipping technique such as ground shipping that may be a lower cost shipping technique than other shipping techniques such as air shipping that can ship the item from the origin to a destination within the delivery area within the timeframe for the enhanced shipping option. In some embodiments the shipping carrier may provide the shipping cost of shipping an item according to the timeframe which may compared to a predefined threshold for shipping the item with the enhanced shipping option.

A user may in various embodiments select one or more items for order. Display information sent to a user may provide a user interface configured to accept a user order for a particular item. A user interface may display one or more user interface elements configured to select a shipping option for a particular item. Embodiments may generate an order for the selected one or more items. An order may contain shipping information for a particular shipping carrier such as a shipping label and or shipping tracking identifier. The order may be sent to the corresponding fulfillment network. Various embodiments may record an order in a database.

Some embodiments may use the shipping tracking identifier to determine a delivery time for an item. If the delivery time exceeds a specified delivery timeframe some embodiments may perform a corrective action. A corrective action may be sending an order fulfillment reminder to a fulfillment network or sending a cancellation order for the item to the fulfillment network and sending the order to another fulfillment network.

In at least some embodiments a user may be a subscriber of a subscription based shipping program. A subscription based shipping program may be offered by a network based site providing subscribers with a plurality of shipping options for items ordered at the network based site. In some embodiments the enhanced shipping option is one of many shipping options available to subscribers of a subscription based shipping program. For subscribers some embodiments may determine whether items offered by fulfillment networks controlled by an entity distinct from the entity controlling the network based site are eligible for the subscription based shipping program.

Some embodiments may provide a fulfillment network access to a user interface. A user interface may contain various user interface elements which display orders sent to the fulfillment network. Embodiments may allow a fulfillment network to retrieve shipping information for an order such as shipping labels and or shipping tracking identifiers.

Embodiments may obtain a request from a fulfillment network to submit additional items for offer on a network based site for an enhanced shipping option. In response some embodiments may provide the requesting fulfillment network with access to a user interface. The user interface may display submission user interface elements configured to obtain information concerning an item such as the identifier of an item the quantity of an item and the location of an item. Some embodiments may determine whether the fulfillment network is eligible for the enhanced shipping option.

Embodiments may be implemented in various network based sites such as a virtual marketplace or websites that support e commerce. These network based sites may provide other entities such as online merchants manufacturers retailers and distributers with opportunities to offer items for order on the network based site. A network based sited may offer an enhanced shipping option to users that specifies certain shipping services for an item ordered with the enhanced shipping option. An enhanced shipping option may be a location based shipping option dependent on the shipping origin of an offered item and the predicted shipping destination of a user who may order the item. An enhanced shipping option may be a shipping option that can be used based on the cost of shipping from the location of the shipping origin and predicted shipping destination. Offered services for an enhanced shipping option include but are not limited to free and or reduced rate shipping for eligible items ordered on the network based site.

An enhanced shipping option may also be a component of a subscription based shipping program offered by a network based site. A subscription based shipping program more generally may provide mechanisms that allow users of network based sites to pay a fee to obtain a subscription or membership in a shipping program offered to customers of the network based site for a period e.g. a month six months a year etc. that provides the users with free and or reduced rate shipping for at least some items ordered from the network based site during the period covered by the subscription. In embodiments in paying for a subscription to the program a user may essentially be pre paying a fixed shipping charge for a period a month six months a year etc. instead of paying a per order shipping charge based upon the number of items ordered the size and or weight of the items or other factors. Instead of users paying per unit charges for every order for shipping embodiments may provide a subscription based shipping program with a fixed subscription and thus shipping cost for the subscriber.

A subscription based shipping program may in some embodiments allow any user of the network based site to pay an annual membership fee to receive benefits including but not limited to free 2 day shipping on ordered items or free standard shipping if 2 day shipping is not available for an item next day shipping on ordered items at a reduced cost per item shipping either to the subscriber s address or to third party addresses and the ability to share the membership at no additional charge with one or more other users such as residents of the same household there may be an upper limit on the number or relationships of other customers that the membership may be shared with .

Note that the above is an example of a subscription based shipping program and is not intended to be limiting other implementations may be set up differently. For example other implementations may provide only one discounted or free shipping method for subscribers to the program e.g. free 2 day shipping or more than two discounted and or free shipping options for subscribers the program. As another example implementations may issue subscriptions to the program for different periods or using other models for example implementations may offer one or more of monthly subscriptions bi annual subscriptions annual subscriptions and lifetime memberships. Some implementations may offer various combinations such as monthly subscription for the first year and then annual subscription thereafter. Some implementations may offer tiered subscriptions wherein users may opt to subscribe for different periods for different fees for example an enterprise may offer one month six month annual and lifetime memberships or subscriptions to the shipping program for different subscription fees. In general various implementations may offer subscriptions or memberships in the program of any arbitrary duration and not strictly of regular durations. Also note that embodiments may offer other benefits to the subscriber s for example exclusive and or first access to special items or special offers and or special fast track handling of the subscribed user s orders.

Note that while the term order is generally used herein in terms of a user purchasing an item from an network based site an order as used herein may also refer to a rental a lease an exchange or any other transaction that might occasion a shipment of one or more items to or on behalf of users using an enhanced shipping option.

As described above embodiments may be implemented in various network based sites such as a virtual marketplace or any network based site that provides other entities such as online merchants manufacturers retailers and distributers with opportunities to offer items for order on the network based site. A network based site may be controlled by a single entity or single group of entities. This same entity or group of entities may also control a fulfillment network which offers items on the network based site. Communications between the network based site and this fulfillment network may operate through public communication channels such as a public network like the Internet or private communication channels such as a mutually accessible inventory management system. A network based site may communicate orders to the fulfillment network and receive information concerning offered items from the fulfillment network such as the item quantity shipping origin or identification numbers.

Users often described as customers of a network based site may peruse items offered on a network based site through a variety of systems like those described with regard to and communication methods such as communications exchanged over a network. Customers more generally may be retailers online merchants individuals suppliers and or any other entity that may request display information concerning items offered on a network based site. Customers may be other network based sites or enterprises with supply channels or networks utilizing many different hardware and or software configurations to communicate with a network based site. For example a custom car repair service may maintain a part supply system that communicates with a network based site to request information on and place orders for specialty car parts offered on a network based site.

The items offered on a network based site may be fulfilled by other entities known as fulfillment networks including but not limited to online merchants wholesalers manufacturers retailers distributers or any other entity that may receive orders for items stored in inventory retrieve the ordered items and ship the items to the ordering customer s destination. Note that in some embodiments a fulfillment network may not be the owner of offered items. For example a gardening retailer may offer several different species and varieties of plants for sale on a network based site. When the gardening retailer receives an order for a particular warm weather plant it may direct a particular warm weather nursery that holds the plant in inventory to ship the plant to a customer. The gardening retailer may own the plant and receive the profits from the plant s sale but the warm weather nursery may be the gardening retailer s fulfillment network because it receives the order for the warm weather plant from the gardening retailer retrieves the plant from inventory and ships the plant to the customer.

Communications between a fulfillment network and a network based site may be facilitated through many different communication systems implemented by many different configurations of hardware and software. Some network based sites may communicate through private networks or channels to direct orders to fulfillment networks while others may use public communication channels such as a network like the Internet or wireless networks to send communications to and receive communications from fulfillment networks. The content of these communications may be orders for items directed to fulfillment networks and the reminders directions and follow on communications related to an order. Communications may also include information concerning items a fulfillment network offers on the network based site such as the item identification numbers quantity of items and the logistical information necessary to ship items such as the shipping origin of the item where a shipping carrier would take custody of the item. Some embodiments may allow a network based site to receive communication information for new or additional items to be offered on a network based site from fulfillment networks.

Network based sites may implement a location based shipping option also known as an enhanced shipping option for customers of a network based site. An enhanced shipping option may provide one or more shipping services to a customer ordering a particular item that is eligible for the enhanced shipping option. illustrates an example operating environment for a network based site that implements determining eligibility for a location based shipping option for multiple fulfillment networks according to some embodiments.

Network based site may obtain requests for display information for items offered on the network based site from customers such as Customer A customer B and Customer C . In some embodiments network based site may be an e commerce website or other computer network based retail site. Network based site may receive from customers requests for display information concerning one or more items offered on the network based site. In some embodiments the network based site may receive these requests over a network such as the depicted network the Internet . The requested display information may be text images graphics or otherwise displayable data about a particular item. For example Customer A may be desktop computer that displays a webpage based upon display information received over the Internet from the network based site . When the network based site receives the request from Customer A the network based site may send display information that displays various text and images concerning the item on the webpage. A network based site may obtain requests from various customers sending display information in response. A network based site may obtain requests from Customers A B and C for the same or different items offered on the network based site . A network based site such as network based site may implement various configurations of servers load balancers and other hardware software configurations to handle multiple customers.

One or more fulfillment networks may offer items on a network based site. One of these fulfillment networks may be controlled by the same entity that controls the network based site. Some network based sites may allow at least one other fulfillment network to offer items on the network based site that are controlled by an entity distinct from the entity controlling the network based site. For example in items may be offered on the network based site by fulfillment network A which accesses inventory A fulfillment network B which accesses inventory B fulfillment network C which accesses inventory and the entity fulfillment network which accesses inventory . The dotted line denotes that a single entity controls both the network based site and the entity fulfillment network . Fulfillment networks A B and C may be operated or controlled by one or more entities distinct from the entity controlling the network based site and the entity fulfillment network . In one example fulfillment network A may be a jewelry artisan neither owned nor controlled by the network based site . The jewelry artisan may offer several different necklaces for order on network based site . If the network based site receives a customer order for one of the jewelry artisan s necklaces then the network based site may communicate this order to fulfillment network A the jewelry artisan. The jewelry artisan then packages and ships the necklace to the customer and retains the profits of the sale though in some embodiments a network based site may share a portion of the profits usually in the form of a fee . As depicted in a network based site like may offer items from multiple fulfillment networks such as fulfillment networks A B and C . Communication between the network based site and the fulfillment networks A B and C is depicted using private communication channels including but not limited to private networks utilizing hardware software devices shared access to inventory management systems or private communications such as emails Multimedia Messaging Service MMS or Short Messaging Service SMS text messages phone calls facsimiles or other physical or digital communications. Although not depicted in fulfillment networks may utilized public communication channels such as networks like the Internet .

Various embodiments may implement a location based shipping option referred to as an enhanced shipping option. This enhanced shipping option may in some embodiments be limited to customers who are also subscribers to a subscription based shipping program. In some embodiments then enhanced based shipping option may be extended to items offered by multiple fulfillment networks of which at least one of the fulfillment networks is not controlled by the entity controlling the network based site. The network based site may determine the eligibility of particular items for the enhanced shipping option for particular customers. For example the network based site may a receive a request for display information concerning a clock. The clock is fulfilled by fulfillment network A . The network based site may determine through various means described below the clock s shipping origin essentially the location where fulfillment network A would ship the clock from. The network based site may also determine a predicted shipping destination for the clock for Customer A . Based upon the shipping origin and predicted shipping destination the network based site may determine the eligibility of the clock for ordering with the enhanced shipping option and return over the Internet or other network display information that indicates that the clock is eligible for the enhanced shipping option. If however the network based site were to detect that Customer A has updated its shipping destination the network based site may determine that the clock is no longer eligible for the enhanced shipping option and may send display information configured to reflect the change. The network based site may obtain a request from Customer B for display information for the same clock viewed by Customer A . As Customer B may have a different shipping destination than Customer A the network based site may determine that the clock is not eligible for the enhanced shipping option for Customer B . Yet the network based site may also determine that the same model of clock fulfilled by fulfillment network B is eligible for the enhanced shipping option based option the shipping origin of the clock from fulfillment network B .

The previous example illustrates the various combinations of eligibility for items offered on a network based site for various pairings of customers and fulfillment networks. A network based site may determine eligibility for offered items in response to various communications from both customers and fulfillment networks. These communications may provide further information obtained by a network based site to determine or determine again item eligibility for an enhanced shipping options. Further descriptions of these communications as well as various methods for determining eligibility are described below.

A network based site such as network based site described in may be implemented in a variety of ways. A network based site may need to communicate with a variety of entities such as fulfillment networks customers and other entities like shipping carriers in order to make item eligibility determinations for an enhanced shipping option and send display information to customers configured to identify eligible items. Therefore many different configurations of hardware and software systems devices and methods may be envisioned for a network based site. is a block diagram that illustrates an example system configuration for a network based site implementing an embodiment for determining eligibility for a location based shipping option for fulfillment networks according to some embodiments.

A network based site may be implemented on one or more servers one or more of which may be coupled to Internet or other network or combination of networks . An example system that may be used for a server is illustrated in . Servers may include software and or hardware that implements enterprise logic through which the functionalities of the network based site may be supported and through which items offered by the network based site may be ordered according to embodiments as described herein or via other ordering methods. Enterprise logic may include software and or hardware that implements location based shipping component that provides the functionalities of the enhanced shipping option as described herein. Location based shipping component may be a part of shipping management application with may interact with various other components in enterprise logic . For example enterprise logic may implement a subscription management program that allows customers to subscribe to a subscription based shipping program. The subscription based shipping program may allow customers to use a location based shipping option known as an enhanced shipping option. As part of its eligibility determination location based shipping component may interact with this subscription management application to determine whether to include in display information eligibility information for a customer.

Servers may be coupled to data storage for storing information in database related to the network based site including but not limited to webpages data related to items offered by the network based site and customer information such as but not limited to customer billing information and default shipping addresses. Data storage may be implemented as one or more storage devices configured independently or as a storage system. In general data storage may be implemented as one or more of any type of storage device and or storage system suitable for storing data used by the server systems of the website including but not limited to redundant array of inexpensive disks RAID devices disk drives or arrays of disk drives such as Just a Bunch Of Disks JBOD used to refer to disks that are not configured according to RAID optical storage devices tape drives RAM disks Storage Area Network SAN Network Access Storage NAS or combinations thereof.

Database may be implemented as a single monolithic database or as a combination of two or more databases and or data stored in other non database formats such as files stored in any of various file formats. Database may be or may include a relational database or may be or may include any other type of database such as an object oriented database depending on implementation or combinations thereof. In one embodiment database may include a customer database configured for storing information about customers that have accounts for accessing the network based website. In one embodiment database may include a user database for storing information about users that have accounts at the network based site. The stored user information may include but is not limited to payment and billing information a default shipping address order history and memberships with network based site programs such as a subscription based shipping program. Other data stored in database may include fulfillment network performance data such as on time delivery data and customer feedback. Databases may store the shipping origins for items offered for order on the network based site quantities of offered items and item identification numbers. Shipping performance information may be stored regarding one or more shipping carriers providing delivery times and locations for previous orders. Embodiments may record orders generated by the network based site in database including shipping information such as shipping labels and shipping tracking identifiers. More generally data storage may store some or all transactional data received by and sent from a network based site to customers other fulfillment networks shipping carriers and or the enterprise fulfillment network .

A network based site may obtain requests from customers such as requests described with regard to . Enterprise logic implemented on servers may be configured to obtain requests from customers . Customer requests such as requests for display information concerning a particular item offered on the network based site may travel over a network such as the Internet . In some embodiments servers may receive requests from customers through a client system e.g. a computing device such as a desktop computer laptop computer tablet computer smart phone etc. . Each client system of a customer may be configured to access the network based site using for example a web client application such as a web browser. Network based sites may utilize other messaging protocols or networks for messages received from client devices. For example in some embodiments a server may configured to receive a SMS or MMS text message requesting display information from a mobile phone of customer . In other example embodiments servers may obtain request messages from a supply management system of a customer which utilizes a server system that sends request messages over a private network not depicted . Various embodiments may configure servers to obtain customers requests from many different devices using many different communication protocols. For example a network based site may provide customers with an Application Programming Interface API through which a client system may be configured to communicate with API defined message formats and functionalities to servers and enterprise logic .

In one embodiment servers may allow a customer using a client system access to a network based site implemented by enterprise logic on servers for example using a web browser. The network based site may cause to display a webpage of the network based site on a client system that may include a user interface configured to specify one or more items for display for the customer and a user interface configured to accept user orders of displayed items. Display information configured and sent by a network based site to a customer may be configured to display information concerning the specified one or more items on the user interface. Information about an enhanced shipping option or a subscription based shipping program and or one or more user interface elements for selecting shipping options may be displayed on the user interface.

A network based site may send orders to a fulfillment network and receive from a fulfillment network requests to submit additional items for offer on a network based site such as the communications described with regard to . Many different hardware and software configurations may be implemented to facilitate these communications. For example servers may send orders and obtain requests from one or more other fulfillment networks over a network such as the Internet through a client system e.g. server a computing device such as a desktop computer laptop computer tablet computer smart phone etc. . These fulfillment networks may be controlled by an entity distinct from the entity controlling the network based site. In some embodiments servers may allow a client system of an other fulfillment network to access the network based site using a web client application such as a web browser. Enterprise logic send orders to other fulfillment network by displaying information through the web application.

In another example a network based site may provide another fulfillment network with an API by which servers may allow a client system such an application implemented on server or other computing device to access or receive messages from enterprise logic . These client servers of other fulfillment networks may be servers that implement websites of other entities such as enterprises institutions or individuals that control the one or more other fulfillment networks order management applications or real time messaging systems. In some embodiments mobile client devices of other fulfillment networks may access or interpret messages from enterprise logic of servers through mobile applications relying upon APIs or standard mobile technologies such as SMS or MMS text messages. Many possible implementations exists for facilitating the communication between a network based site and fulfillment networks which are not described herein so as not to obscure the claimed subject matter and thus none of the above examples are intended to be limiting.

In one embodiment enterprise logic on servers may allow another fulfillment network using a client system access to the network based site implemented by enterprise logic on servers for example by using a web browser. The network based site may cause to display a webpage of the network based site on a client system that may include a user interface configured to accept submissions of one or more additional items to offer for order on the network based site. The user interface may display one or more submission user interface elements to obtain information such as the identification information of items the quantities of items and the locations of items. The user interface may be configured to display orders generated by the network based site for the fulfillment network to fulfill and supply shipping labels and shipping tracking information for the order to the fulfillment network.

A network based site may control or operate its own fulfillment network for items it offers on the network based site. In some embodiments the network based site through enterprise logic on servers may generate orders and send the orders to an entity fulfillment network controlled by the same entity controlling the network based site. Orders may be communicated through a variety of means such as over an internal network e.g. intranet . In some embodiments enterprise logic and enterprise fulfillment network may both access an inventory management system through which enterprise logic may send orders to enterprise fulfillment network and obtain item information from enterprise fulfillment network .

In some embodiments a network based site may communicate with shipping carriers to determine item eligibility for an enhanced shipping option. For example servers implementing enterprise logic may request or obtain information from one or more shipping carriers over a network such as the Internet through a client system e.g. a server or other computing device . Shipping carriers may be courier services package delivery services postal services freight services and more generally any common carrier service company or mode of transporting an item from one location to another. Enterprise logic may configured to submit information to shipping carriers such as shipping origin shipping destination and shipping timeframe information. In some embodiments servers and client devices of shipping carrier may both access a mutual database or other device that allows either party to store and retrieve information for the other party. Other communication tools may be used such as an API. For example a network based site may obtain an API from shipping carriers allowing enterprise logic to communicate with one or more client devices of shipping carriers such as servers through an application. This application may be able to provide the network based site with information used by the location based shipping component to determine item eligibility for an enhanced shipping option. Location based shipping component may send a postal code and a one day shipping timeframe to shipping carriers utilizing the API. Location based shipping component may receive from shipping carriers information data containing a list of five postal codes which the shipping carrier may deliver from the origin postal code within the one day shipping timeframe in addition to the shipping cost. Various embodiments may implement many forms of customized hardware and or software devices and applications to facilitate communication between shipping carriers and a network based site through various messaging protocols APIs or networks.

Network based sites may implement a location based shipping component within the enterprise logic of a network based site. The various methods and functionalities of a location based shipping component are described below with respect to and other related figures. Location based shipping component may be implemented in a shipping management application within the enterprise logic or separately on a location based shipping application. Some embodiments may implement dedicated hardware to implement location based shipping component such as a dedicated server or network of servers. Location based shipping component may communicate with other applications within the network based site such as those that may be implemented with the enterprise logic . For example location based shipping component may communicate with a fulfillment network application which determines the performance of fulfillment networks or a subscription shipping application which determines which items or customers may be ordered with a subscription based shipping option.

As described above a network based site such as network based site in may determine whether a particular item offered by a particular fulfillment network is eligible for an enhanced shipping option based on whether the particular item can be shipped from the shipping origin of the item to arrive at the predicted shipping destination of the item within a timeframe specified for the enhanced shipping option using a cost effective shipping technique. A cost effective shipping technique may be a shipping technique such as ground shipping that may be a lower cost shipping technique than other shipping techniques such as air shipping that can ship the item from the origin to predicted destination within the timeframe for the enhanced shipping option. In some embodiments a cost effective shipping technique may be a shipping technique having a shipping cost below a predefined threshold. Network based site may configure display information indicating eligibility for the particular item to be sent to a particular customer. In describing an example system of a network based site identifies a location based shipping component that may implement determining whether a particular item offered by a particular fulfillment network is eligible for an enhanced shipping option and configure display information indicating eligibility to be sent to a particular customer. A location based shipping component may implement various methods to make this determination. illustrates a flowchart of an example method for determining eligibility for an enhanced shipping option which may be implemented in some embodiments of a location based shipping component. As indicated at the network based site obtains a request for display information for an item. An item is one of the one or more items offered on a network based site for order by a user. A network based site may obtain a selection from a user selecting one or more of the offered items and requesting display information for the selected items. Display information may include but is not limited to text information e.g. item description price condition etc. images or videos of the item and any other graphical data that may be displayed concerning an item. In some embodiments display information may be configured for display in a user interface such as described below with respect to .

In some embodiments offered items may be fulfilled by two or more fulfillment networks such as those described in . One fulfillment network may be controlled by the entity controlling the network based site. At least one other fulfillment network may be controlled by an entity distinct from the network based site. Display information may contain information about the respective fulfillment network offering the item. Further information about the fulfillment network may be displayed for users or may available upon further user request.

Prior to a user selecting a particular one of the items offered by the network based site embodiments may determine a shipping origin for the item as indicated at . Various embodiments may implement various methods to determine the shipping origin of the item. In some embodiments a network based site may access data storage that stores item information such as the shipping origin of the item. For example a handbag seller may offer various handbags on a network based site. When placing the offers for the handbags on the network based site the handbag seller may provide the network based site with information about each handbag such as size color weight condition and the location of the handbag. A network based site may store all of the information concerning each handbag in a database. To determine the shipping origin of the handbag the network based site need only access the item location information in the database.

In some embodiments an item may be stored in more than one location even when offered by only one fulfillment network. For example a book publisher may warehouse its inventory in two different locations in the United States one on the west coast and one on the east coast. Both warehouses may contain quantities of the same book. A network based site may take into account the locations of both warehouses when determining eligibility for an enhanced shipping option for the book. To account for the possibility of one fulfillment network offering an item that may have more than one shipping origin some embodiments will determine eligibility for each of the shipping origins for the item for each fulfillment network if the display information of more than one fulfillment network offering the item is requested by a user. Using the above example if the network based site obtains a request for display information concerning the above book a location based shipping component may make two eligibility determinations for the book. First the west coast warehouse location may be used as the shipping origin in method described below with regard to element which determines item eligibility for an enhanced shipping option based upon the shipping origin and the predicted shipping destination of an item. Second the east coast warehouse location may be used as the shipping origin in the method described below with regard to element which determines item eligibility for an enhanced shipping option based on whether the item can be shipped by the different entity from the shipping origin to arrive at the predicted shipping destination within a timeframe specified for the enhanced shipping option using a cost effective shipping technique or at a shipping cost below a predefined threshold. If either warehouse location used provides an eligible item then the display information concerning the book for the requesting user will indicate that the book is eligible for the enhanced shipping option.

Embodiments may then determine a predicted shipping destination for the item according to various embodiments. The discussion below with regard to provides some the many possible embodiments to determine a predicted shipping destination. In many of these embodiments the shipping origin determined at and the predicted shipping destination determined at are used to determine if one or more shipping carriers could deliver the item within a certain delivery timeframe. More implementation detail as well as some of the possible embodiments are further explained below at . If the item is determined eligible for the enhanced shipping option using one of the various methods to determine item eligibility then included in the display information sent to the user is an indication that the item is eligible for the enhanced shipping option . An indication may be a graphic symbol text or image. described below illustrate possible embodiments of display information configured to indicate that an item is eligible for the enhanced shipping option.

Embodiments may then in response to the user request send the display information for the item to the user . The discussion above with regard to describe the various communication methods by which a network based site may send the display information to a client system of a user. In one example a network based site may obtain a MMS or SMS text message from a user requesting display information for an item. After determining the shipping origin determining a predicted shipping destination and determining whether the item is eligible for an enhanced shipping option a network based site may send the user a MMS text message that includes an item image description price and words indicating that the item is available to order with the enhanced shipping option.

In some embodiments the display information sent to a user for an item may be configured as a user interface. The user interface may display item offers from multiple fulfillment networks. illustrates an example embodiment of display information that provides a user interface configured to accept a user order for a particular item offered by multiple fulfillment networks. The offered items user interface may include one or more user interface elements such as buttons tabs menus etc. through which the user may navigate to other pages on the interface and or perform other functions such as searches. In some embodiments the offer items user interface displays bar stripes or areas displaying multiple fulfillment networks that may offer the same item . These fulfillment networks may be operated or controlled by an entity distinct from the entity controlling the network based site such as fulfillment networks A B and C discussed and described in . For each fulfillment network display a network based site may determine the eligibility of the fulfillment network s item for the enhanced shipping option according to a method such as the method outlined in .

Item area may display information concerning the item such as graphic images video text descriptions and other item information which may be obtained by enterprise logic accessing data storage in Offers for the item may be displayed in an offer area which also may be determined by an enterprise logic accessing data storage in . This area may contain information about the specific offers for the item such as price item condition fulfillment network information available shipping options and order options . These categories may be expanded to include more or less information about offers. User interface element is a marker identifying the offer as eligible for a subscriber shipping program. This marker is an example of the enhanced shipping option eligibility identification included in the display information at in . Selecting the Order with enhanced shipping option may allow a user to order the item with the enhanced shipping option generating the order for shipping with the enhanced shipping option discussed with regard to element in below and sending the order to the corresponding fulfillment network using the various methods described with regard to other fulfillment networks in . In some embodiments the Order with the enhanced shipping option element may be a single action user interface element that initiates an order for the item using previously supplied user information. Varying information about the shipping program as well as a hyperlink leading to user interface elements that display further information may also be displayed. The Order user interface element may allow a user to select an item for order. In some embodiments selecting the Order user interface element may allow the user to add the item shown on the interface to a collection or cart of items that the user may purchase when done selecting items.

In some embodiments the display information sent to a user for an item may be configured as a user interface may display item offers from one fulfillment network. illustrates an example embodiment of display information that provides a user interface configured to accept a user order for a particular item according to some embodiments. Through item detail user interface a user may view information about an item and order or pre order if the item is not yet available the item according to one or more shipping options offered by the shipping program if desired according to one embodiment. Item detail user interface may include one or more user interface elements such as buttons tabs menus etc. through which the subscriber may navigate to other pages on the website and or perform other functions such as searches. User information area may describe user account information and display messages or other information to the user which may be obtained by the enterprise logic accessing a database containing user information as described above with regard to . For example in the user is described as a subscriber to a shipping based subscription program and the user s name is given Joe Customer. In another example user information area may be displayed to include one or more options available only to subscribers of a subscription based shipping program and specific to this item detail user interface as determined by a subscription based shipping application implemented in enterprise logic in accessing a subscriber database . Area may also display a predicted shipping address such as determined at in or a default shipping address for the user which may be determined by enterprise logic in accessing a user database that contains a default shipping address.

Item detail area may describe relevant graphical and or textual information about the item associated with this item detail webpage such as an item description price availability of the item and other item information such as a picture of the item which may be obtained by enterprise logic accessing data storage in . User interface area may include one or more user interface elements for selecting standard options of the network based website such as an Order button that allows the user to add the item shown on the webpage to a collection or cart of items that the user may purchase when done selecting items. User interface element is a marker identifying the offer as eligible for an enhanced shipping option. This marker is an example of the enhanced shipping option eligibility identification included in the display information at in . Selecting the Order with enhanced shipping option button may allow a user to order the item with the enhanced shipping option generating the order for shipping with the enhanced shipping option discussed with regard to element in below and sending the order to the corresponding fulfillment network using the various methods described with regard to other fulfillment networks in . In some embodiments the Order with the enhanced shipping option element may be a single action user interface element that initiates an order for the item using previously supplied user information. Area may also include a user interface element such as a pop up menu or text box through which the user may select a quantity for the item if ordered.

Network based sites may determine the eligibility of items fulfilled by one or more fulfillment networks for an enhanced shipping option. In various embodiments the shipping origin of an item as determined at in and a predicted shipping destination for the item as indicated at in are used by embodiments to determine a predicted shipping destination. Many embodiments discussed below with regard to through C use the shipping origin the predicted shipping destination and a shipping delivery timeframe to make an eligibility determination as indicated at in . Some of the possible methods of determining a predicted shipping destination are outlined in .

If the network based site has not obtained a user shipping destination some embodiments may access user information stored in a database such as database in . Generally a user may supply user credentials to associate the user with a particular user account on the network based site. For example before receiving a request for display information concerning a particular item a network based site may have previously received user credentials associating the user with a particular user account e.g. providing a user access to a sign on webpage . When the network based site sends display information to the identified user the default shipping address of the account may considered as the predicted user shipping address. In another example a network based site may define a message protocol that requires client devices to provide user information in one of the fields of request response or acknowledgement messages sent to a network based site. When a network based site receives a request for display information using the above protocol the network based site will be able to retrieve any user associated data such as a default shipping address from a user database such as the database in . User information including but not limited to a default shipping address or billing address may be stored generally in data storage such as in or in a particular database such as in . Other user account information associated with an identified user that is stored in a database may be utilized to provide a predicted shipping destination. For example an identified user may wish to order a particular item on the network based site. Located in the user s account order history stored in a database previous orders of a similar item may have been sent to a particular destination for the user. A location based shipping component may count item description keywords e.g. textbook . If a certain percentage of these items e.g. 90 with the same keyword are shipped to an address different from than a user default address the shipping component may determine the predicted shipping destination for any requested items with the keyword textbook to be sent to the address for other textbook items in the order history. Therefore if the user information provides a default shipping destination or other destination information may be determined based upon the user information embodiments may use one of these addresses selected by the location based shipping component as the predicted shipping destination .

Some embodiments may determine the internet protocol IP address of the user . Many techniques well known to those of ordinary skill in the art exist to allow a network based site or servers implementing a network based site to obtain the internet protocol addresses of obtained user requests. After identifying the input internet protocol address some embodiments may perform a geolocation technique upon the identified internet protocol address . A geolocation technique receives as input an internet protocol address and identifies the geographical location of the user of the identified internet protocol address. Common may geolocation services such as WHOIS may automatically trace an internet protocol address and return such information as country region city postal zip code latitude longitude and time zone. The amount of information retrieved may be dependent upon the geolocation service and or the entity utilizing the internet protocol address. For example some internet protocol addresses for individuals may be only identifiable as to the physical address of their internet service provider. Various embodiments may implement geolocation services controlled by the entity controlling the network based site such as implementing their own hardware and or software to implement a geolocation technique or separate services from a third party provider. After performing the geolocation technique to determine a ip address location some embodiments may use the ip address location as the predicted shipping address .

Embodiments may implement various combinations of the elements described in . Some embodiments may use only one predicted shipping determination method. Other embodiments may combine them in various combinations or orders different than described in . is not intended to be limiting as to a particular order or combination of methods to determine a predicted shipping destination.

In some embodiments a client device or system may be a mobile phone or other mobile computing device such as client device discussed above with regard to . Embodiments may determine a predicted shipping destination based on the geographic area from which the mobile device accessed the network based site. A predicted shipping destination as provided to a shipping carrier may be a geographic area such as city county or list of postal codes. Various implementations may be utilized to determine the geographic area of a mobile device. Some mobile devices may be identified through the Global Positioning Satellite GPS network or other various forms of the network such as Assisted GPS A GPS . In some embodiments the communication channel may determine the geographic area of a mobile device. For instance if a mobile device is accessing a cellular network a cellular triangulation technique may be used to determine the geographic area of the cellular network accessing mobile device. In another example a mobile device may be accessing a wireless network connected to a wide area network WAN such as the Internet which the geographic area may be determined by the particular wireless access point used or the ip geolocation technique discussed above at . The above examples are some of many possible location techniques for a mobile device and are not intended to be limiting.

In some embodiments the location information of a mobile device may be directly available to a network based site. For example if a mobile device is using a custom software application developed to interact with the network based site it might relay the geographic area of the mobile device as determined by one of the previously discussed techniques for determining the geographic area of a mobile device. In some embodiments the network site may be able to determine through a third party service or application that directed the mobile device to the network based site. For example if a mobile device used a location application or search engine with location determining capabilities that redirects a mobile device to the network based site the location application or search engine may provide information about the mobile device geographic area to the network based site when directing the mobile device there.

Some embodiments may obtain a request from a user to modify the predicted shipping destination. This request may be obtained over one of the communication methods systems or devices described with respect to customers in . In response embodiments may determine whether the particular item selected is eligible for the enhanced shipping option based on the shipping origin and the modified predicted shipping destination using a method such as outlined with regard to . Some embodiments may include in display information sent to the user an indication that the particular item is no longer eligible for the enhanced shipping option. This display indication may take a form similar to the indication used for eligible items. In some embodiments the display information is configured to identify eligible items without providing any indication or notification of a change in item eligibility.

For example a customer such as a customer described in may through a client system request display information for teddy bear. The customer has an account with the network based site that has a default shipping address associated with the customer. After receiving the display information the customer notices a display element on which identifies the shipping destination as the customer s default shipping destination. The customer desires to send the item to another address as a gift and so selects to change the shipping destination by using the client device. The network based site obtains the customer s modified shipping address and in response determines again the eligibility of the teddy bear for the enhanced shipping option. The teddy bear is no longer eligible and display information is configured and sent to the customer providing a message that states that the teddy bear is no longer eligible for the enhanced shipping option due to the changed address. The above example is one of many possible embodiments that account for a network based site obtaining a modification of a shipping destination for an item and is not intended to be limiting.

A location based shipping component such as location based shipping component in may implement the various eligibility methods described below through various hardware and software configurations. The location based shipping component may communicate with various shipping carriers such as shipping carriers in using the various public and private communication channels previously discussed. As discussed above shipping carriers may be courier services package delivery services postal services freight services and more generally any service company or mode of transporting an item from one location to another.

In some embodiments eligibility may be determined by determining one or more shipping timeframes according to one or more shipping carriers based upon the shipping origin and the shipping destination. A shipping timeframe may be the door to door delivery time from the shipping origin to the shipping destination. A location based shipping component may determine the shipping timeframe according to various service agreements or expectations. For example a network based site may advertise or assert that items ordered with an enhanced shipping option will arrive the next day. When performing eligibility determinations a location based shipping component will in the above example submit a delivery timeframe that delivers items in one day. Some embodiments may determine the delivery timeframe according to a subscription based shipping program. For example a subscription based shipping program provides two day shipping for eligible items with no shipping charge other than the subscription fee . The location based shipping component determines the delivery timeframe for eligible items to be within two days as the enhanced shipping option is a shipping option for subscribers. In some embodiments the delivery timeframe may be the estimated and or guaranteed delivery date of an item.

Along with receiving calculating or determining a shipping timeframe embodiments may determine a shipping cost for the shipping time frame in accordance with the shipping carrier discussed below in and . Embodiments may determine if the shipping cost of the item shipped from the shipping origin to the predicted shipping destination is below a predefined threshold. A predefined threshold such as particular dollar amount may be determined in accordance with the subscription based shipping program or enhanced shipping option policies at the network based site. Embodiments may determine whether the item can be shipped from the shipping origin to the predicted shipping destination using a cost effective shipping technique. A cost effective shipping technique may be a shipping technique such as ground shipping that may be a lower cost shipping technique than other shipping techniques such as air shipping that can ship the item from the origin to predicted destination within the timeframe for the enhanced shipping option. In some embodiments the shipping timeframes determined may be timeframes for a shipping carrier using a ground shipping service. For example a service level agreement for the subscription based shipping program may specify a 2 day delivery time. To determine if an item is eligible for the enhanced shipping option the system may determine whether the item can be shipped from the origin to the destination within the required 2 day timeframe using ground shipping. For example if the shipping origin and destination are within a region such that a cheaper shipping methodology e.g. ground shipping may be used then the item may be eligible for the enhanced shipping option. However if the shipping origin and destination are located such that a more expensive shipping methodology e.g. air freight would be required to meet the 2 day timeframe then the item may be deemed ineligible for the enhanced shipping option.

A location based shipping component may then compare the received shipping timeframes to a delivery timeframe threshold . Some embodiments may query multiple shipping carriers while other embodiments may query only one shipping carrier. A location based shipping based shipping component may query shipping carriers based upon pre established relationships between the network based site and the shipping carrier. In some embodiments a location based shipping component may access a database of shipping carrier performance data for items order on the network based site such as a database in to determine a single carrier that may perform the best for delivering items against some performance measure. For example a network based site may store delivery information for items delivered in a specific country. Shipping carrier performance data for that country may indicate that the local government postal service delivers to more locations faster than any other shipping carrier at a lower cost. A location based shipping component may select to query only the local government postal service for a delivery timeframe.

For items that have a shipping timeframe that is within the delivery time frame threshold using a cost effective shipping technique the item is eligible for the enhanced shipping option and identified in the display information at in .

A network based site may implement more than one method to determine the eligibility of an item for an enhanced shipping option according to the shipping origin and the shipping destination. In some embodiments a location based shipping component may obtain shipping performance data from a database such as database in to determine item eligibility. illustrates a workflow of a method to determine based upon accessing shipping performance data whether an item is eligible for an enhanced shipping option according to some embodiments. Embodiments may access shipping performance data for one or more shipping carriers as stored in a database accessible to a network based site such as database in . Embodiments may then calculate a shipping timeframe based upon the shipping performance data for a particular cost effective shipping technique or methodology such as ground shipping. Such a calculation may determine the historic delivery times for different carriers from the shipping origin to a shipping region that includes the predicted shipping destination using the cost effective shipping technique. For example the database may contain information that demonstrates that orders sent from one postal code to another set of postal codes may arrive on a certain day or time using ground shipping. Embodiments may then compare the received shipping timeframes to a delivery timeframe threshold . A delivery timeframe threshold may be determined according to one or more service guidelines for an enhanced shipping option. For example there may be a one day or two day guideline. A delivery timeframe threshold may be determined by a subscription based shipping program if the enhanced shipping option is part of the subscription based shipping program. Some embodiments may obtain multiple timeframes from multiple shipping carriers. For items that have a shipping timeframe that is within the delivery time frame threshold for the cost effective shipping technique the item is eligible for the enhanced shipping option and identified in the display information at in .

A network based site may implement more than one embodiment using information obtained from a shipping carrier such as those shipping carriers described above. A location based shipping component may only communicate a shipping origin and a delivery timeframe to a shipping carrier. illustrates a workflow of a method to determine based upon a shipping origin and the cost of shipping from the shipping origin to the predicted shipping destination whether an item is eligible for an enhanced shipping option according to some embodiments. Some embodiments may obtain from a shipping carrier delivery destinations that the shipping carrier may deliver to within a certain timeframe using a particular cost effective shipping technique or below a certain shipping cost having previously submitted to the shipping carrier a shipping origin for the item and shipping cost information using communication channels described above with regard to shipping carriers in and above For example a network based site may receive from a shipping carrier a list of postal codes that the carrier may deliver to using ground shipping from another postal code within one day. If the predicted shipping destination is included within or one of the delivery destinations then the item is determined as eligible for the enhanced shipping option and identified in the display information at in .

A network based site may in various embodiments offer items fulfilled by multiple fulfillment networks for order on the network based site such as the fulfillment networks described with regard to . Moreover in some embodiments a customer such as described in may also be a subscriber and eligible for certain enhanced shipping options as part of a subscription based shipping program. Some embodiments provide a method for determining whether an item is eligible for subscription based shipping for multiple fulfillment networks when at least one of the multiple fulfillment networks is controlled by an entity distinct from the entity controlling the network based site. illustrates a workflow of a method to determine the eligibility of an item for subscription based shipping for multiple fulfillment networks. A network based site may obtain input at a network based site identifying a user . User identification information may be included in a request for display information or obtained separately at the network based site. The user identification may include a name and password id and pin number or any combination of identification information that allows the network based site to identify the user. The user may access a user interface to provide the identification information to the network based site. As indicated at a network based site may request display information for one or more items selectable for order on the network base site by multiple fulfillment networks. One of the fulfillment networks may be controlled by the entity that controls the network based site such as describe with regard to . At least one other of the fulfillment networks may be controlled by an entity distinct from the entity controlling the network based site.

Based upon the input identifying the user some embodiments may determine whether the user is a current subscriber to a subscription based shipping program . Such a determination may in some embodiments be made by accessing the user information stored on a subscription database such as database in to identify whether the user has a current subscription to a subscription based shipping program. If the user is not a subscriber then the network based site may send the user non subscriber display information for the item . This display information may only differ from subscriber display information based upon the shipping options displayed to the user.

Embodiments may then obtain input at the network based site specifying one or more items for display for the subscriber. Some embodiments may allow a user to access a user interface such as but not limited to a webpage configured to accept user orders of the displayed one or more items. If the item is fulfilled by a fulfillment network controlled by an entity distinct from the entity controlling the network based site then the network based site determines the shipping origin and the predicted shipping destination of the item . Otherwise include in the display information sent to the user an indication that the item is eligible for subscription based shipping program and send the display information for the item to the user . If the item is determined to be eligible for the subscription based shipping program according to a method such as the method described with regard to then include in the display information sent to the user an indication that the item is eligible for subscription based shipping program and send the display information for the item to the user . If the item is determined to be ineligible for the subscription based shipping program send the user non subscriber display information for the item .

A network based site may obtain orders for items identified as eligible for an enhanced shipping option. A location based shipping component such as location based shipping component in may implement various software and or hard components to generate orders for items send item orders and record orders in a database such as database in or communicate with various other components of the enterprise logic of to generate orders for items send item orders and record orders in a database. illustrates a flowchart for a method to generate an order with the enhanced shipping option according to some embodiments.

Various embodiments may obtain input at the network based site selecting at least one of the displayed one or more items that the user wants to order . In at least some embodiments a user may access a user interface configure to accept orders of the displayed one or more items such as described above with regard to . For example a server such as servers in may obtain a customer selection sent over a wireless network from the customer s web enabled mobile phone to order an item offered at the network based site that is eligible for enhanced shipping. The selection is obtained through a webpage provided to the customer and through the selection of an Order with enhanced shipping button which communicates the selection to the network based site.

In response to obtaining input selecting at least one of the displayed one or more items that the user wants to order a location based shipping component or enterprise logic may generate an order for the selected at least one item directing the at least one item to be a shipped according to the enhanced shipping option . To generate an order various embodiments may communicate with a shipping carrier such as a shipping carrier in to obtain a shipping label and shipping tracking identifier. For example location based shipping component or enterprise logic may communicate through a software application configured according to a particular shipping carrier s API that allows the network based site to create a shipment and receive a shipping label and shipping tracking identifier for the shipping carrier. An order may also include item information such as item identification information the quantity of the item ordered the shipping option selected a shipping label and or a shipping tracking number for a particular carrier. Embodiments may use the shipping carrier that provided that was used to determine the item was eligible for the enhanced shipping option.

Embodiments may then send the generated order to the corresponding fulfillment network for the ordered item using one the communication channels discussed with the other fulfillment networks in and formatting the order and any accompanying information in a format suitable to the communication channel e.g. document format for a facsimile multiple messages for SMS or MMS text messages hyperlinks for access to a website etc. . For example enterprise logic or a location based shipping option may be configured to send an email with the order and accompanying shipping information such as the shipping label and shipping tracking identifier to the corresponding fulfillment network. The email may provide links that allow the fulfillment network to access the shipping carrier s website or system to provide further shipping instructions and print the shipping labels. Other embodiments may send the order to the corresponding fulfillment by providing the corresponding fulfillment network access to a user interface configured to retrieve order information such as described below with respect to .

In some embodiments the network based site may record the order in a database such as a database in including in the record but not limited to the shipping tracking identifier and the corresponding order fulfillment network. Some embodiments may use the record to determine the delivery time of an item described below with regard to and to determine the performance of fulfillment networks described below with regard to .

In some embodiments a network based site may provide a fulfillment network with access to a user interface configured to manage orders sent to the fulfillment network as indicated at in . illustrates an exemplary manage order user interface via which a fulfillment network may access to manage item orders according to one embodiment but is not intended to be limiting. Some embodiments may allow a fulfillment network to manage orders sent to a fulfillment network via a manage order user interface . Note that sent orders may be sent to the fulfillment network through some other communication channel in addition to the user interface for example in an email. In some embodiments a fulfillment network may search for particular orders in an order search list element by providing a search type such as whether the order is regular or expedited search range such as dates or times order was received and a search user interface element which instructs the user interface to obtain the search results. These user interface elements may be configured by enterprise logic to access various databases such as described in data storage in to retrieve the various orders corresponding to the fulfillment network. As described above with regard to the databases may implement various relational associations or other logic to aid the enterprise logic to satisfy order search requests on manage order user interface .

The order search results area displays order information such as but not limited to order date order identification shipping destination shipping option order status and action . Such fields may be supplied with information obtained by the enterprise logic accessing a database such as database in . Embodiments may provide additional user interface functionality in the order action field such as retrieving and or printing order shipping labels and order tracking information. In some embodiments the action field may provide a hyperlink to a shipping carrier where a fulfillment network may obtain and or print a shipping label and shipping tracking identifier.

A network based site that allows multiple fulfillment networks to offer items that may be eligible for an enhanced shipping option such as the fulfillment networks described with regard to may implement various mechanisms to determine whether a fulfillment network is performing according to the network based site s enhanced shipping expectations. A location based shipping component may access the recorded order information as indicated in in stored in a database such as database in to determine the delivery time of ordered items. Many different determinations and actions may be implemented by a location based shipping component in response to accessing recorded shipping information. illustrates a flowchart of a method to determine the delivery time of an item within a delivery timeframe according to some embodiments.

A location based shipping component may access an item s shipping tracking identifier for a particular order that is recorded on an order database such as database in . A location based shipping component may use the shipping tracking identifier to determine the delivery time of an item. In some embodiments a location based shipping component may communicate with a shipping carrier such as a shipping carrier in to obtain the delivery time of an item corresponding to that shipping carrier s tracking identifier for the item. For example location based shipping component or enterprise logic may communicate through a software application configured according to a particular shipping carrier s API that allows a location based shipping option to utilize a software and or hardware component configured to according the API to submit the tracking identifier for the item to the corresponding shipping carrier. The location based shipping component may obtain from the shipping carrier the estimated or actual delivery time of the item to the customer. Alternatively in some examples the shipping based component may be configured to receive delivery message updates e.g. item picked up item left shipping facility item out for delivery item delivered from the shipping carrier concerning an item according to the item s shipping tracking identifier. The location based shipping component may record these message updates in the order database corresponding to the fulfillment network. Neither of the two examples described above is intended to be limiting as to the many possible implementations of obtaining a delivery time from shipping carrier that may be envisioned by those of ordinary skill in the art.

A location based shipping component may determine whether a delivery timeframe is exceeded by comparing the determined delivery time to a delivery timeframe. The delivery timeframe as described above may be the door to door delivery time from the shipping origin to the shipping destination. A location based shipping component may determine the delivery timeframe according to various service agreements or expectations. Some embodiments may determine the delivery timeframe according to a subscription based shipping program. For example a subscription based shipping program provides two day shipping for eligible items with no shipping charge other than the subscription fee . Embodiments may also use the same timeframe as was used to originally determine the order s eligibility for the enhanced shipping option as indicated at in . For example if an order s eligibility was determined according to a two day shipping delivery timeframe then the location based shipping component will determine the delivery timeframe to be within two days. In some embodiments the determined delivery time may not be available. For example the shipping carrier may have not picked up the package from the fulfillment network. In such embodiments a location based shipping program may automatically determine that the delivery time exceeds the delivery time frame. The frequency of the occurrence of the above scenario may depend upon when the location based shipping option implements the method described in . Some embodiments may determine certain audit times which a location based shipping component may implement FIG. s method to assess the performance of a fulfillment network or to maintain customer expectations concerning the enhanced shipping option.

If the delivery time is found by the location based shipping component to exceed the delivery timeframe some embodiments may initiate a corrective action. Various corrective actions may be implemented by a location based shipping component. In some embodiments a corrective action may be to send the fulfillment network an order reminder through various communication methods such as email MMS or SMS text message or phone call or any other communication channel as described with regard to other fulfillment networks in . For example if a fulfillment network has not yet handed over an ordered item to a shipping carrier and the location based shipping component determines the delivery timeframe is exceeded the location based shipping component may send both a text message and an email informing to the fulfillment network to ship the order.

Some embodiments may then again determine whether the delivery time frame has been exceeded using the shipping tracking identifier of the item such as described above at . For some embodiments another corrective action may be to send a cancellation order for the item to the fulfillment network using one of the various communication channels described for other fulfillment networks in . A location based shipping component may then send the order to another fulfillment network which may be another fulfillment network controlled by an entity distinct form the entity controlling the network based site or the entity fulfillment network such as indicated at in .

Various embodiments may implement a variety of combinations of the elements described in the above method. Individual actions or groups of actions may be implemented in some embodiments. is not intended to be limiting as to the arrangement or combination of these actions.

As discussed previously a network based site that allows multiple fulfillment networks to offer items that may be eligible for an enhanced shipping option such as the fulfillment networks described with regard to may implement various mechanisms to determine whether a fulfillment network is performing according to the network based site s enhanced shipping expectations. In some embodiments the network based site may implement a method to evaluate the performance of fulfillment networks according to performance over a period of time or more than a single transaction as is describe above with respect to . In at least some embodiments the fulfillment networks evaluated will be those who offer items eligible for the enhanced shipping option. illustrates a flowchart of a method to evaluate a fulfillment network according to some embodiments.

A location based shipping component may access fulfillment network performance data for a fulfillment network store in a database such as database in . In some embodiments this data may include but is not limited to the previous orders fulfilled by a fulfillment network customer feedback for orders e.g. feedback that states Item was late Item was not delivered when promised number of on time deliveries and number of late deliveries. The location based shipping component may based upon this performance data determine a performance measure for the fulfillment network . For example a performance measure may be an on time delivery percentage calculated by dividing the number of on time deliveries by the total number of delivered orders. It will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that many performance measures may be determined and the above example is not intended to be limiting.

A location based shipping component may then determine whether the determined performance measure exceeds an enhanced shipping option threshold or guideline for participation by the fulfillment network in the enhanced shipping program. Such a threshold or guideline may be determined by an agreement between fulfillment networks and the network based site. For example a fulfillment network may in order to participate in an enhanced shipping option program agree that it must maintain above 90 deliveries for items fulfilled by the fulfillment network with the enhanced shipping option. Various embodiments may implement various actions depending on the discrepancy between the performance measurement of a fulfillment network and the enhanced shipping option threshold. In some embodiments if the performance measure exceeds the enhanced shipping option threshold then all items of the fulfillment network are identified as ineligible for the enhanced shipping option . A location based shipping component may access a fulfillment network eligibility database such as database in to record or retrieve the eligibility of a particular fulfillment network. Some embodiments will configure additional display information to be sent to a user to reflect items determined as ineligible for enhanced shipping option if the fulfillment network becomes ineligible after the display information is sent to a user.

In some embodiments a network based site may obtain a request from a fulfillment network submitting one or more additional items to offer for order on the network based site. A location based shipping component may obtain such a request over a communication channel described with respect to other fulfillment networks in . illustrates a flowchart of a method to submit additional items for offer at the network based site for the enhanced shipping option. A location based shipping component may obtain a request from a fulfillment network to submit additional items for the enhanced shipping option . In some embodiments this request may be obtained through a user interface such as described below with regard to . Other embodiments may utilize other communication methods. For example a location based shipping component to obtain fulfillment network requests through a network based site provided web service API which may allow fulfillment network systems to communicate with the location based shipping component. In response to received requests a location based shipping component may determine if the fulfillment network is eligible to offer items with the enhanced shipping option such as by using a method described by above with regard to . If the fulfillment network is determined eligible the location based shipping component may provide the fulfillment network with access to a user interface configured to submit additional items for offer with the enhanced shipping option .

A network based site may in some embodiments provide a user interface displays a plurality of submission user interface elements. These submission user interface elements may be configured to obtain identification numbers of the one or more additional items quantities of the one or more additional items and shipping origin locations of the one or more additional items. The identification numbers may be unique to the network based site or a globally unique id such as an ISBN. The quantities of the items are the quantity of the item at the submitted location. The location information for items may be the location where a shipping item may be picked up by a shipping carrier or may be the location where an item is stored. For example an artist may store certain artwork items offered at a studio but may submit the location of art gallery that handles the shipping and packing as the location. In another example a manufacturer may warehouse finished items offered at the network based site at many different warehouses around the country. In some embodiments the same item may be in multiple locations. A fulfillment network may submit the item for each shipping origin location of the item providing the quantity of the item at the location as well as the item identification information.

In one embodiment a network based site that implements determining eligibility for a location based shipping option for multiple fulfillment networks as described herein in may include a general purpose computer system that includes or is configured to access one or more computer accessible media such as computer system illustrated in . In the illustrated embodiment computer system includes one or more processors coupled to a system memory via an input output I O interface . Computer system further includes a network interface coupled to I O interface .

In various embodiments computer system may be a uniprocessor system including one processor or a multiprocessor system including several processors e.g. two four eight or another suitable number . Processors may be any suitable processors capable of executing instructions. For example in various embodiments processors may be general purpose or embedded processors implementing any of a variety of instruction set architectures ISAs such as the x86 PowerPC SPARC or MIPS ISAs or any other suitable ISA. In multiprocessor systems each of processors may commonly but not necessarily implement the same ISA.

System memory may be configured to store instructions and data accessible by processor s . In various embodiments system memory may be implemented using any suitable memory technology such as static random access memory SRAM synchronous dynamic RAM SDRAM nonvolatile Flash type memory or any other type of memory. In the illustrated embodiment program instructions and data implementing desired functions such as those methods and techniques described above for an network based website of an electronic commerce enterprise that implements a subscription based shipping program are shown stored within system memory as code .

In one embodiment I O interface may be configured to coordinate I O traffic between processor system memory and any peripheral devices in the device including network interface or other peripheral interfaces. In some embodiments I O interface may perform any necessary protocol timing or other data transformations to convert data signals from one component e.g. system memory into a format suitable for use by another component e.g. processor . In some embodiments I O interface may include support for devices attached through various types of peripheral buses such as a variant of the Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus standard or the Universal Serial Bus USB standard for example. In some embodiments the function of I O interface may be split into two or more separate components such as a north bridge and a south bridge for example. Also in some embodiments some or all of the functionality of I O interface such as an interface to system memory may be incorporated directly into processor .

Network interface may be configured to allow data to be exchanged between computer system and other devices attached to a network such as other computer systems for example. In particular network interface may be configured to allow communication between computer system other computer systems if any that are part of the network based site other servers on the Internet and computers used by customers of the network based website elsewhere on the Internet. Network interface may commonly support one or more wireless networking protocols e.g. Wi Fi IEEE 802.11 or another wireless networking standard . However in various embodiments network interface may support communication via any suitable wired or wireless general data networks such as other types of Ethernet network for example. Additionally network interface may support communication via telecommunications telephony networks such as analog voice networks or digital fiber communications networks via storage area networks such as Fibre Channel SANs or via any other suitable type of network and or protocol.

In some embodiments system memory may be one embodiment of a computer accessible medium configured to store program instructions and data as described above. However in other embodiments program instructions and or data may be received sent or stored upon different types of computer accessible media. Generally speaking a computer accessible medium may include storage media or memory media such as magnetic or optical media e.g. disk or DVD CD coupled to computer system via I O interface . A computer accessible medium may also include any volatile or non volatile media such as RAM e.g. SDRAM DDR SDRAM RDRAM SRAM etc. ROM etc. that may be included in some embodiments of computer system as system memory or another type of memory. Further a computer accessible medium may include transmission media or signals such as electrical electromagnetic or digital signals conveyed via a communication medium such as a network and or a wireless link such as may be implemented via network interface .

Various embodiments may further include receiving sending or storing instructions and or data implemented in accordance with the foregoing description upon a non transitory computer accessible medium. Generally speaking a non transitory computer accessible medium may include storage media or memory media such as magnetic or optical media e.g. disk or DVD CD ROM volatile or non volatile media such as RAM e.g. SDRAM DDR RDRAM SRAM etc. ROM etc. As well as transmission media or signals such as electrical electromagnetic or digital signals conveyed via a communication medium such as network and or a wireless link.

The various methods as illustrated in the Figures and described herein represent exemplary embodiments of methods. The methods may be implemented in software hardware or a combination thereof. The order of method may be changed and various elements may be added reordered combined omitted modified etc.

Various modifications and changes may be made as would be obvious to a person skilled in the art having the benefit of this disclosure. It is intended that the invention embrace all such modifications and changes and accordingly the above description to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense.

