---

title: Efficiently injecting spin-polarized current into semiconductors by interfacing crystalline ferromagnetic oxides directly on the semiconductor material
abstract: A spintronic device and a method for making said spintronic device. The spintronic device includes an epitaxial crystalline ferromagnetic oxide formed directly on the semiconductor material thereby allowing spin-polarized current to be efficiently injected from the ferromagnetic oxide into the semiconductor material. A host crystal lattice includes multiple sets of stacked oxide layers of material A and B of a perovskite structure with a formula of ABO. After an oxide layer of B is grown, magnetic ions are introduced to intermix with the B material, which may replace some of the ions of the B material. The process of growing additional stacked oxide layers of material A and B and introducing further magnetic ions after the deposition of the oxide layer of B continues until enough magnetic ions are sufficiently close to one another that they align in the same direction thereby forming a ferromagnetic oxide on the semiconductor material.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09023662&OS=09023662&RS=09023662
owner: Board of Regents, The University of Texas System
number: 09023662
owner_city: Austin
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120507
---
Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 484 080 Efficiently Injecting Spin Polarized Current into Semiconductors by Interfacing Crystalline Ferromagnetic Oxides Directly on Silicon filed May 9 2011 and claims the benefit of its earlier filing date under 35 U.S.C. 119 e .

This invention was made with government support under N00014 09 1 0908 awarded by the Office of Naval Research. The U.S. Government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates generally to spintronic devices and more particularly to efficiently injecting spin polarized current into semiconductors without significant losses by interfacing crystalline ferromagnetic oxides directly on the semiconductor material.

Spintronic devices are electronic circuits that could use both the charge and spin of charge carriers most typically electrons to transmit store and process information. There are many applications for spintronic devices. Some examples of spintronic devices are the family of devices which exploit giant magnetoresistance GMR . Spintronic devices may be used for example in magnetic field sensors magnetic memories spin based transistors semiconductor quantum interference devices based on electron spin classical and quantum computers heads for reading data from magnetic storage media or the like.

An impediment to the availability of commercially useful spintronic devices is that it has so far not been practical to generate strongly spin polarized currents in semiconductor materials often referred to as spin injection . Spin polarized currents of electrons can be generated in ferromagnetic materials because the magnetic field of the material augmented by many body effects interacts with the spins of electrons. Thus the spin up and spin down states of electrons in a ferromagnetic material have different energy levels. The majority of electrons are in states such that their spins are aligned with the local magnetic field of the material. In such materials electrons occupy the majority and minority spin states asymmetrically.

It is possible in principle to take advantage of this asymmetry to create a spin polarized current in a non ferromagnetic material e.g. semiconductor by creating a spin polarized electronic current in a ferromagnetic material and causing the current to flow from the ferromagnetic material into an adjacent non ferromagnetic material by way of an interface. For example if a layer of ferromagnetic metal is bonded to a piece of silicon the electrons can be made to flow from the magnet into silicon by applying a voltage. Unfortunately the electrons lose their polarization as they cross the interface between the two materials thanks to an impedance mismatch between the metal and the semiconductor. As a result the efficiency of spin injection from ferromagnetic metals into semiconductors has been very low.

This problem has been circumvented in semiconductor materials such as gallium arsenide by allowing the spin polarized electrons to tunnel across the interface thus avoiding the impedance mismatch. However such a process requires a very thin and abrupt interface between the metal and the semiconductor which cannot currently be achieved when growing layers of ferromagnetic metal on semiconductor material such as silicon.

In one embodiment of the present invention a method for forming a ferromagnetic oxide material on a semiconductor comprises introducing magnetic ions into a host crystal lattice where the host crystal is in contact with a semiconductor material. The host crystal lattice is a perovskite oxide structure with a formula of ABO where A comprises an alkaline earth metal or a group IIIA metal and where B comprises one of the metals from groups IVA VIIIA and IIIB. The host crystal lattice comprises a first oxide layer of A and a first oxide layer of B where the first oxide layer of B is grown after the first oxide layer of A. The magnetic ions are introduced after the first oxide layer of B is grown in the host crystal lattice. The method further comprises introducing further magnetic ions into the host crystal lattice after adding each set of additional oxide layers of A and B in the host crystal lattice until a number of magnetic ions align in a same direction thereby forming a ferromagnetic oxide on the semiconductor material.

In another embodiment of the present invention a method for forming a ferromagnetic material on a semiconductor comprises growing a first layer of strontium oxide on a semiconductor material. The method additionally comprises growing a first layer of titanium dioxide on the first layer of strontium oxide. In addition the method comprises introducing a first set of magnetic ions after the first layer of the titanium dioxide is grown on the first layer of strontium oxide to intermix with titanium ions in the first layer of titanium dioxide whereby one or more of the first set of magnetic ions replace one or more titanium ions in the first layer of the titanium dioxide. Furthermore the method comprises growing a second layer of strontium oxide on the first layer of titanium dioxide following the introduction of the first set of magnetic ions. The method further comprises growing a second layer of titanium dioxide on the second layer of strontium oxide. The method additionally comprises introducing a second set of magnetic ions after the second layer of the titanium dioxide is grown on the second layer of strontium oxide to intermix with titanium ions in the first and second layers of titanium dioxide whereby one or more of the second set of magnetic ions replace one or more titanium ions in the first and second layers of the titanium dioxide. In addition the method comprises continuing to grow additional layers of strontium oxide and titanium dioxide and continuing to introduce magnetic ions after the additional layer of titanium dioxide is grown until a number of magnetic ions align in a same direction thereby forming a ferromagnetic oxide on the semiconductor material.

In one embodiment of the present invention a spintronic device comprises a semiconductor material and an epitaxial layer of crystalline ferromagnetic oxide in contact with the semiconductor material.

In another embodiment of the present invention a spintronic device comprises a semiconductor material. The spintronic device further comprises a silicon dioxide layer in contact with the semiconductor material. In addition the spintronic device comprises an epitaxial layer of crystalline ferromagnetic oxide in contact with the silicon dioxide layer where the silicon dioxide layer is formed after the epitaxial layer of crystalline ferromagnetic oxide is formed.

The foregoing has outlined rather generally the features and technical advantages of one or more embodiments of the present invention in order that the detailed description of the present invention that follows may be better understood. Additional features and advantages of the present invention will be described hereinafter which may form the subject of the claims of the present invention.

The present invention comprises a spintronic device and a method for making said spintronic device. The spintronic device includes an epitaxial crystalline ferromagnetic oxide formed directly on the semiconductor material e.g. silicon . The ferromagnetic oxide is formed directly on the semiconductor material by introducing magnetic ions in a host crystal lattice. The host crystal lattice may include multiple sets of stacked oxide layers of a perovskite structure with a formula of ABO where A includes an alkaline earth metal or a group IIIA metal and B includes one of the metals from groups IVA VIIIA and IIIB. After the oxide layer of B is grown in the host crystal lattice magnetic ions are introduced to intermix with the B material. The magnetic ions may replace some of the ions of the B material. The process of growing additional stacked oxide layers of material A and B in the host crystal lattice and introducing further magnetic ions after the deposition of the oxide layer of B continues until a sufficient number of magnetic ions are sufficiently close to one another that they align in the same direction thereby forming a ferromagnetic oxide on the semiconductor material. As a result of forming an epitaxial layer of ferromagnetic oxide directly onto the semiconductor material spin polarized current may be efficiently injected from the ferromagnetic oxide into the semiconductor material.

As stated in the Background section an impediment to the availability of commercially useful spintronic devices is that it has so far not been practical to generate strongly spin polarized currents in semiconductor materials often referred to as spin injection . When the spin polarized currents flow from a ferromagnetic material into the semiconductor material the electrons lose their polarization as they cross the interface between the two materials thanks to an impedance mismatch between the metal and the semiconductor. As a result the efficiency of spin injection from ferromagnetic metals into semiconductors has been very low.

The principles of the present invention provide a process for depositing an epitaxial crystalline ferromagnetic oxide directly onto the semiconductor material such as silicon without any interfacial reactions thereby allowing spin polarized current to be injected into the semiconductor material with a much higher efficiency as discussed below in connection with A H A B and . is a flowchart of a method for forming a ferromagnetic oxide material on a semiconductor that allows spin polarized current to be injected into the semiconductor material with a much higher efficiency. depict cross sectional views of a spintronic device during the process steps described in . illustrate the planes of strontium oxide and titanium dioxide respectively that are formed in a host crystal lattice. illustrates a host crystal lattice used as a host for forming an epitaxial crystalline ferromagnetic oxide on the semiconductor material.

Referring now to the Figures in detail is a flowchart of a method for forming a ferromagnetic oxide material on a semiconductor in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. will be discussed in conjunction with which depict cross sectional views of a spintronic device during the process steps described in in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. While discusses a process of forming a ferromagnetic oxide material on a semiconductor using strontium oxide and titanium dioxide the principles of the present invention apply to using a crystal lattice with a perovskite oxide structure with a formula of ABO where A includes an alkaline earth metal or a group IIIA metal e.g. strontium barium lanthanum and calcium and B includes one of the metals from groups IVA VIIIA and IIIB e.g. titanium aluminum cobalt and hafnium . A person of ordinary skill in the art would be capable of applying the principles of the present invention to such implementations.

Referring now to in conjunction with in step a first layer of strontium oxide SrO is grown on a semiconductor material such as silicon as illustrated in . Referring to a layer of strontium oxide is grown directly on silicon to fabricate a spintronic device . In one embodiment the strontium oxide is grown using molecular beam epitaxy. As will be discussed in further detail below a crystal lattice of stacked strontium oxide and titanium dioxide TiO layers will be grown and used for forming an epitaxial crystalline ferromagnetic oxide. A depiction of a strontium oxide layer in such a crystal lattice is provided in .

Referring to illustrates a plane of strontium oxide which consists of strontium Sr and oxygen O in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. Plane of strontium oxide represents the first and each subsequent layer discussed further herein of strontium oxide that is grown in a crystal lattice discussed further below in connection with .

Returning to in conjunction with in step a first layer of titanium dioxide TiO is grown on the first layer of strontium oxide as illustrated in . Referring to a layer of titanium dioxide is grown on the layer of strontium oxide . In one embodiment the titanium dioxide is grown using molecular beam epitaxy. As discussed above a crystal lattice of stacked strontium oxide and titanium dioxide layers will be grown and used for forming an epitaxial crystalline ferromagnetic oxide. A depiction of a titanium dioxide layer in such a crystal lattice is provided in .

Referring to illustrates a plane of titanium dioxide which consists of titanium Ti and oxygen O in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. Plane of titanium represents the first and each subsequent layer discussed further herein of titanium dioxide that is grown in a crystal lattice as illustrated in .

Referring to illustrates a crystal lattice used as a host to form a crystalline ferromagnetic oxide in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. Crystal lattice depicts the first layers of strontium oxide and titanium dioxide stacked on top of another. As shown in plane of titanium dioxide is stacked on top of plane of strontium oxide. The stack of plane on top of plane may be referred to as a set. Further sets of strontium oxide and titanium dioxide may be added to crystal lattice as discussed further below.

Returning to in conjunction with in step magnetic ions are introduced after the first layer of titanium dioxide TiO is grown so as to allow the magnetic ions to intermix with the titanium ions in the titanium dioxide as illustrated in . Referring to metallic ions are introduced to be intermixed with the titanium ions in the titanium dioxide . In the process of intermixing some of these magnetic ions may replace some of the titanium ions in the titanium dioxide. For instance referring to some of the titanium ions Ti would be replaced with the metallic ions. In one embodiment metallic ions are cobalt. In another embodiment the metallic ions may include any one of the following chromium iron nickel manganese cobalt gadolinium and europium. In one embodiment any metal may be used to be introduced in step that is comparable in size to the titanium atoms.

The steps of are repeated in the manner described below. In step a second layer of strontium oxide is grown on the first layer of titanium dioxide following the introduction of the magnetic ions in step as illustrated in .

In step a second layer of titanium dioxide is grown on the second layer of strontium oxide as illustrated in . Referring to a layer of titanium dioxide is grown directly on the layer of strontium oxide .

As discussed above each layer of strontium oxide may be represented by plane in and each layer of titanium dioxide may be presented by plane in . Each of these planes are stacked on top of another as shown in in crystal lattice where crystal lattice after step would now include plane stacked on top of plane which is stacked on top of another plane which is stacked on top of another plane .

After growing each titanium dioxide layer magnetic ions are introduced to have the magnetic ions intermix with the titanium ions in the titanium dioxide including the titanium ions in previously grown layers of titanium dioxide.

In step additional magnetic ions are introduced after the second layer of titanium dioxide is grown so as to allow the magnetic ions to intermix with the titanium ions in the first and second layers of titanium dioxide as illustrated in . Referring to additional metallic ions are introduced to be intermixed with the titanium ions in the layers of titanium dioxide . In the process of intermixing some of these magnetic ions may replace some of the titanium ions in the titanium dioxide .

In step steps are repeated where additional layers of strontium oxide represented by plane of and titanium dioxide represented by plane of are grown in a stack manner as discussed above in host crystal lattice and where magnetic ions are continued to be introduced after the additional layer of titanium dioxide is grown until a sufficient number of magnetic ions are sufficiently close to one another that they align in the same direction thereby forming an epitaxial crystalline ferromagnetic oxide on the semiconductor material e.g. silicon as illustrated in . Referring to

As a result of forming an epitaxial layer of ferromagnetic oxide directly onto the semiconductor material e.g. silicon spin polarized current may be efficiently injected from ferromagnetic oxide into the semiconductor material e.g. silicon .

In one embodiment magnetic ions are cobalt. The concentration of intermixing cobalt Co with titanium dioxide is represented by TiCoO where the cobalt ions align in the same direction when x is between 0.1 and 0.5.

In one embodiment the first layers of strontium oxide and titanium dioxide are deposited using molecular beam epitaxy. The additional layers of strontium oxide and titanium dioxide may be deposited using other techniques such as pulsed laser deposition.

In the case of spintronic device having a tunneling structure process proceeds with performing a post deposition anneal step with oxygen in step to form a silicon dioxide layer on the semiconductor material e.g. silicon as illustrated in . Referring to a silicon dioxide SiO layer is formed on top of silicon after the epitaxial layer of ferromagnetic oxide has been formed. The thickness of the silicon dioxide layer can be controlled by temperature and pressure.

In some implementations method may include other and or additional steps that for clarity are not depicted. Further in some implementations method may be executed in a different order presented and that the order presented in the discussion of is illustrative. Additionally in some implementations certain steps in method may be executed in a substantially simultaneous manner or may be omitted.

Although the method and spintronic device are described in connection with several embodiments it is not intended to be limited to the specific forms set forth herein but on the contrary it is intended to cover such alternatives modifications and equivalents as can be reasonably included within the spirit and scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims.

