---

title: Method and apparatus for pushing situationally relevant data
abstract: A computer-implemented method of providing users with contextually relevant data associates metadata tags with data items extracted from a variety of data sources that summarize the data items in searchable form using a common format. Contextual data is collected from the users indicative of their current situation. This data is then correlated with the metadata tags to identify data items of potential interest to the users taking into account their current situation. The identified data items are pushed to the relevant receiving devices in real time over a communications network to provide the identified users with information relevant to their current situation.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09152739&OS=09152739&RS=09152739
owner: NTEROP Corporation
number: 09152739
owner_city: Kanata, Ontario
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20120404
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. provisional application No. 61 472 418 filed Apr. 6 2011 the contents of which are herein incorporated by reference.

This invention relates to the field of data communications and in particular to a method and apparatus for pushing situationally relevant data to a user for example a police officer.

In emergency services access to the right information at the right time is critical. In most cases relevant information is scattered through old and new systems some electronic and others based on paper. Emergency services workers can find themselves in many different situations that require totally different information and many different situations can arise during just one shift. A lot of these situations carry a life or death implication. Police services are one area of emergency services that can act as an example of what exists today.

Police officers increasingly have to search through complex and extensive information and knowledge sources. To find information police officers have to know where the data sources are located and how to access them. A large amount of manual and cognitive effort is required to query all the relevant data sources each with a different search interface or to read the paper based reports and glean the correct and relevant information from them.

Database technologies have been widely used to manage crime and police reports to provide faster and easier access for law enforcement personnel. One such example is the COPLINK Connect system. COPLINK aims to enable law enforcement agencies to search for information more effectively by providing a user friendly interface that integrates data from various sources such as incident records mug shots and gang information. COPLINK uses co occurrence analysis to identify the relationships among different entities e.g. persons vehicles locations and organizations in criminal justice databases.

Other information technologies also have been used in law enforcement. For example the Connect system introduced by the New York Police Department uses computer statistics and crime mapping techniques to identify the types of crimes happening in different districts. Data mining techniques have also been applied to identifying interesting patterns in criminal data. For example a self organizing map is used to cluster similar sexual offense cases into groups in order to identify serial offenders.

There are many monitoring and notification systems for Web information sources. One example is the NorthernLight Web search engine www.northernlight.com which alerts users when new Web pages are added to the database. Some client side search tools such as Copernic Agent www.copernic.com and WebSeeker www.bluesquirrel.com also provide the functionality for scheduling automatic searches. Eirade www.etrade.com allows users to choose which stocks they want to monitor and the users are alerted when the stock price reaches the level they specified. In the financial application arena more advanced monitoring e.g. monitoring based on the results of complex financial analysis has also been proposed. In these systems users can often opt to be alerted in different ways such as Web messages emails pagers voice messages or short messages for mobile devices. In the area of providing monitoring and alerting support for law enforcement applications the FALCON system developed at Charlotte Mecklenburg Police Department CMPD in Charlotte N.C. offers the functionality of monitoring all incoming police records as well as sending alert messages to police offers by email and pager. FALCON does not offer collaborative filtering capabilities or advanced collaboration functions.

Collaborative filtering is a kind of collaboration in which people help one another perform filtering by recording their reactions to documents they read. Examples of collaborative filtering and recommender systems include Amazon.com GroupLens Fab Ringo Do I Care and Collaborative Spider. When a user performs a search these systems will recommend a set of documents or items that may be of interest based on this user s profile and other users interests and past actions.

New technologies providing even more information are showing up all the time. An example is a device that shoots a small GPS equipped dart that attaches itself to a suspect s vehicle during a high speed pursuit. Another is an ear mounted video camera that captures an officers view of traffic stops and other incidents. Police departments are using cameras on patrol cars to scan and track the license plates of each vehicle they pass which lets them recoup overdue parking violations fines.

Law enforcement technology may be evolving but it hasn t changed the core responsibilities of police officers jobs police officers still must talk to people and gather information. Judgment and instinct from officers is the most important when recording what is actionable. When an officer is given information they are responsible to act on it or not which can lead to misconduct.

The different forms of intelligence can guide investigations provide insights for resource allocation suggest when priorities should be expanded or changed suggest when new training and procedures may be needed to address changing threats and permit insight when there is a change in the threat level.

Intelligence led policing ILP is a policing model that has emerged in recent years which is built around risk assessment and risk management. Although there is no universally accepted understanding of what intelligence led policing entails the leading definition is that ILP is a strategic future oriented and targeted approach to crime control focusing upon the identification analysis and management of persisting and developing problems or risks. In simpler terms it is a model of policing in which intelligence serves as a guide to operations rather than the reverse.

Unlike industries where information overload can be resolved with hardware and storage policies the emergency service field must account for a daily bombardment of information that might or might not be relevant the moment it is received. Zipping up this information and shipping it off to some forgotten archive is not an option especially when considering that case activity is constantly in flux. It takes full time personnel and large expensive meetings devoted to creating actionable information with no good way to disseminate it.

Intelligence data often resides across multiple locations making retrieval and analysis even more cumbersome. At the end of the day analysts require speed efficiency and 100 percent accuracy when it comes to the software tools they use to carry out their intelligence work. The information should be kept permanently and be stored in doubles or triples.

Increasing numbers of emergency service workers are using sophisticated hardware including smart phones and smart devices that plug into computers for example fingerprint analyzers and radios. Because of the range in age of workers the equipment has to be easy to use and learn. With unlimited mobile data on tap all manner of information can be pushed to workers who might previously have had to spend time returning to the station to receive it. It also serves as a quick storage medium for things like photos of suspects or new methods of performing a procedure.

The use of mobile technology is associated with an increasing amount of information at the users disposal. The twin themes of a growing volume of information and increasing exposure to it is called information overload. Information overload results from the inability of living systems to process excessive amounts of information. Combined with the fact that technology can generate information much faster than people can process it this means that people often find themselves unable to cope with an increasing amount of information. Information overload may originate from information actively requested or searched for and information received whether or not the recipient wants needs it or not.

In emergency service organizations a great deal of information flows to and from internal departments and external organizations and the regulatory framework requires substantial audit trails and documentation. The structure is one of command and control with hierarchical relationships involving reporting up and down the ranks. These factors and others result in a large volume of information for managers to deal with.

Organizational information includes systems and services that are designed to acquire share and disseminate information of all kinds including information that circulates through formal and informal means both internally and externally. The information environment and organizational context needs to be understood in order to understand the complex ways in which information flows in out and around the organization and how this contributes towards information overload and to judge the effectiveness of the information style etc.

Emergency service organizations operate in a complex and changing environment with information flowing to and from external organizations as well as through a number of internal hierarchies and departments. The highly structured organization tends to generate highly structured and often large amounts of information. Time pressure frequent deadlines complex tasks high uncertainty unpredictable events and important decision consequences also contribute towards information load.

As the culture of an organization moves towards a more open information environment with information being shared more freely and widely this results in a greater volume of information being made available to the individual and decision making power being pushed out. Superiors can try to summarize information on their behalf. This serves to moderate information overload by reducing the time spent on information seeking or filtering. To avoid information overload individuals employ process or coping strategies which may be either conscious or unconscious and can potentially become dysfunctional. Filtering omission and error are among the coping strategies.

Effective real time business intelligence requires that data latency analysis latency and action latency be reduced as much as possible. The analysis of large amounts of historical data prior to taking action inherently involves considerable latency.

According to the present invention there is provided a computer implemented method of providing users with contextually relevant data comprising associating metadata tags with data items extracted from a variety of data sources that summarize the data items in searchable form using a common format collecting contextual data for users indicative of their current situation correlating the contextual data with said metadata tags with to identify data items of potential interest to the users taking into account their current situation identifying relevant receiving devices associated the identified users and pushing the identified data items to the relevant receiving devices in real time over a communications network to provide the identified users with information relevant to their current situation.

With the context of the invention a metadata tag or metatag is information that is used to organize and categorize the underlying data. Examples might be location time groups skills channel users etc. Contextual data represent qualities associated with the data and can be stored as metatags.

The contextual data can for example be a subscription to a channel. The metadata tag on a data item can be geographical location the time when it occurred in the form of a timestamp the nature of a particular task or a channel topic.

The data items may be ranked in order of interest. The ranking can be customer based and influenced by user feedback. The rankings may be based on weight vectors which are changed based on the customer feedback.

The invention also provides a system for providing users with contextually relevant data comprising a data store for storing metadata tags with data items extracted from a variety of data sources that summarize the data items in searchable form using a common format and processor configured to collect contextual data for the users indicative of their current situation correlate said contextual data with said metadata tags with to identify data items of potential interest to the users taking into account their current situation identify relevant receiving devices associated with the identified users and push the identified data items to relevant receiving devices associated with the respective users in real time over a communications network to provide the users with information relevant to their current situation.

The system provides a way to define channels to broadcast information on. As is the case for users these channels would have relevant information on a particular topic. The same mechanism for determining relevance on a data item for a user can be used to determine the relevance of a data item for a channel. Data items can also be manually added to a channel. When a user subscribes to a channel a secondary filtering action can be performed so that they only see data from the channel that is relevant to them if that is what they want.

Embodiments of the invention provide a platform and application suite that addresses critical information management needs. The platform connects all the different information sources that a worker might needs analyses the data and then based on the workers contextual parameters training location current situation etc. gives them the required information in the best way possible on the right communication device of which there could be many . The platform adds a layer of collaboration and situational awareness to current information systems. The platform is capable of integrating with various data sources and is built to allow for easy integration of applications.

The platform also includes applications that can be used to input information for example a briefing creation and presentation tool and several intuitive interfaces to allow workers to access the system. Information can be added to the system through users or systems as authorized. Through a simple and efficient interface briefings can be created to include authorizing capabilities and information being pushed can be updated throughout the day. Briefings are therefore easy to present in a continuous manner throughout a worker s shift. This moves the briefing from a static one time event to an ongoing and constantly updated process.

Users can then access the system through a personalized application. This application is available on a wide variety of devices including on a computer through a web browser or with a smart phone client The information provided through these clients either pushed to them or asked for by them is presented in a relevant and prioritized manner dependant on individual and situational circumstances. Information presented is customized to each user based on their current context and needs. The user can also give input as to the relevance of the information they received at the time so the system can learn to make better decisions.

The system can also group users together that have a connected context for example a Case where different individuals contribute and need to be updated on relevant developments. The system also can merge data coming to a user for different reasons and determine a combined ranking. For example a Case can be an ongoing role for a user which is applicable even if they are in another role for example on patrol at the same time.

The system thus provides a rule based methodology for pushing relevant information to the appropriate user at the right time based on a predetermined set of rules.

The metatags may be a configurable parameter of the system as different users may have different needs. For example the police service will have different criteria compared to the fire service.

The receiving devices could be radios in car terminals computers including wireless laptops tablets desktops etc. . They may be handheld but do not need to be as in the case of an in car system. Conceivably they could also be wired in a situation where user are located at or have access to a fixed station. A receiving device may also include shared systems such as a TV that has a marquee to display various pieces of information important to a group of people.

There are many types of users who would be interested in the system including firemen paramedics soldiers or indeed anyone who has need of updated real time information.

In one embodiment of the method the information can be displayed by relevance and also overlaid over other information such as a template or map. For example in the case of a police officer the display could include a flag at the location of a recent burglary with a call out box noting the relevant details of the crime for that officer.

Embodiments of the invention may handle the process or workflow associated with all information that comes through this system. For instance it may include a workflow editor that is graphical in nature and describes the process design surrounding how all information is handled for each type for example using a set of business rules thus providing an easy method of not only configuring the exact process information follows while in the system but easily understanding it documenting and maintaining it moving forward.

Embodiments of the invention may also include ad hoc language translation. If Quebec sent high priority information to Ontario the system could translate it in real time.

Referring now to in an emergency services organization there are many information sources many people who fill many different roles which could include groupings and who use many different communications devices to collaborate and perform their duties. Embodiments of the invention connects all these various and disparate entities together into a cohesive system that decreases the amount of irrelevant information that an emergency services worker gets or has access to and enhances their access to relevant information depending on various factors the main one being the current situation they are in which includes location .

Referring to a System Administrator uses Web Pages to configure the system. There is also an Information Creator Role which can assign Permissions on Items in the system and perform other tasks. This is all done using standard methods for inputting data on a web page and storing it a database. Typically configuration consists of Persons Groups Roles Devices MetaData Definitions and Possible Values that can be assigned . Permissions define who is allowed access to a specific piece of data Items MetaData . The Web Pages are connected through the LAN WAN in a standard way using standard software to the Standard Web Server . When the System Administrator wants to input data they must first go through security. The Standard Web Server uses the Authentication Interface to check the credentials. The Authentication Interface uses the Database Interface to do this. This is all standard login procedure. The input Data is formatted in the Standard Web Server and passed Configuration . Configuration uses the Database Interface to store the data in the correct Database . When an Information Creator is assigning Permissions to an Item they can do so in two ways.

They can assign particular Persons Roles or Groups Permissions or they can choose a pre defined default setting which automatically makes the link between the Item and the Persons Groups and or Roles allowed to access it. These links between Persons Roles Groups and Items are stored as Permissions .

The rank of an item then is calculated at as the scalar product dot product of s with a vector of feature weights w where wis the weight of the feature n. rank s.w sw sw . . . sw

By repeating the process for each item e get a Vector of Rank r for k items where ris the rank of the kitem.

We then apply a linear separation well known mathematical function to the Vector of Ranks which is effectively choosing items with rank more than a constant c used to determine the quality of the relevance. i.e. all items ranked above are considered relevant to the provided user and can be shown to the user by the order of highest rank first 

It will be seen that the system thus provides the user with up to date prioritized information that takes account of his current contextual situation.

Information is presented to the user in this case police officer in the most effective way. A prioritized inbox is used that contains only the most relevant information for that particular officer at that particular time. As the officers situation changes the prioritized inbox is updated with the different information to reflect the changing circumstances.

The system can also be designed to allow officers to input relevant information from the field in real time. They can also tag the information as being relevant to a subset of officers for example officers in the same geographic area.

