---

title: Methods and systems for authenticating one or more users of a vehicle communications and information system
abstract: A system includes a processor, configured to wirelessly communicate with at least a vehicle computing system, wherein the processor is further configured to receive input from a vehicle owner indicating that transfer of administrative rights to vehicle systems is desired. The processor is further configured to send a confirmation message to a new owner of the vehicle and send a confirmation request to the vehicle computing system, following receipt of a response to the first confirmation message. Also, the processor is configured to establish the new owner as having administrative rights upon receipt of a response to the confirmation request.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09569403&OS=09569403&RS=09569403
owner: Ford Global Technologies, LLC
number: 09569403
owner_city: Dearborn
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120503
---
Various embodiments relate to an authentication process for authenticating one or more user of a vehicle communication and information system. In some embodiments one or more vehicle users may be authenticated before operating one or more vehicle controls from a device remote from a vehicle.

For a variety of reasons including but not limited to identification security and safety a vehicle owner or user may be authenticated as an authorized user of a vehicle communications and information computing system before the system can be used by the vehicle owner. Typically this authentication may occur prior to first use of the vehicle and or vehicle communications and information system. The authentication may occur at a dealership by a dealer or dealer representative. Additionally or alternatively the authorization process may occur through a telephone call or other communication to the automotive OEM or an entity associated with the automotive OEM responsible for handling such calls by the dealer the vehicle owner or other authorized person.

These and other aspects will be better understood in view of the attached drawings and following detailed description of the invention.

In a first illustrative embodiment a system includes a processor configured to wirelessly communicate with at least a vehicle computing system wherein the processor is further configured to receive input from a vehicle owner indicating that transfer of administrative rights to vehicle systems is desired. The processor is further configured to send a confirmation message to a new owner of the vehicle and send a confirmation request to the vehicle computing system following receipt of a response to the first confirmation message. Also the processor is configured to establish the new owner as having administrative rights upon receipt of a response to the confirmation request.

In a second illustrative embodiment a computer implemented method includes receiving a request from a current administrator for administrative rights transfer to a new administrator. The method also includes sending a confirmation message to the new administrator and sending a confirmation request to a vehicle computing system upon receipt of a confirmation response from the new administrator. Further the method includes establishing the new administrator as having administrative rights upon receipt of a response to the confirmation request from the vehicle computing system.

In a third illustrative embodiment a system includes a processor configured to communicate at least with a vehicle computing system. The processor is further configured to receive a request from a non administrator to make the non administrator an administrator and responsive to the request send a message to a current administrator seeking permission to process the request and further send a confirmation request to a vehicle computing system. The processor is also configured to responsive to a confirmation received from either the current administrator after the request has been sent to the vehicle computing system or the vehicle computing system establish the non administrator as an administrator.

A typical authentication process for authenticating vehicle owners or users to use the vehicle s telematics system may not only be expensive for an OEM but also inconvenient for the vehicle owner. Authentication may be performed through a human operator with access to information for authenticating the vehicle user s . This may include for example access to remote systems such as a DMV s or Secretary of State s office to verify the identity of the vehicle owner users. This may leave a limited time window for the user to be authenticated e.g. due to hours of operation . Further using human operators can be expensive for the OEM because of the added cost of employing these individuals. Therefore using for example and without limitation a nomadic device such as a cell phone a vehicle owner and or user can be authenticated to use the vehicle s communication and information computing system VCIS without the issues that may be associated with typical authentication processes.

Detailed embodiments of the invention are disclosed herein. However it is to be understood that the disclosed embodiments are merely exemplary of an invention that may be embodied in various and alternative forms. Therefore specific functional details disclosed herein are not to be interpreted as limiting but merely as a representative basis for the claims and or as a representative basis for teaching one skilled in the art to variously employ the present invention.

Additionally the disclosure and arrangement of the figures is non limiting. Accordingly the disclosure and arrangement of the figures may be modified or re arranged to best fit a particular implementation of the various embodiments of the invention.

In this illustrative embodiment the centralized system is a server system that includes processing capability for incoming nomadic device signals designated to interact with a remote vehicle .

For example the server s may include an automated call server and or web host. Further the server s may route an incoming signal from a nomadic device ND to the appropriate remote vehicle. Data sent in this fashion may be sent using data over voice a data plan or in any other suitable format.

Data can also be sent to the remote vehicle through the server s using a personal computer . In this case the data is likely although not necessarily sent over the internet .

Once the server s receive the incoming data request from the remote source the message is processed and or relayed to a vehicle . The vehicle may be identified by a header associated with one or more incoming data packets or may be identifiable based on a database lookup for example.

The relay to the vehicle is sent out from the server s through a network e.g. without limitation a cellular network the internet etc. and passed through a cellular network to the vehicle . In another embodiment the relay may be passed through network e.g. WiFi or WiMax and to the vehicle . A remote communication module in the vehicle receives the signal sent from the server s and processes it or relays it to an appropriate processing system within the vehicle .

In at least one illustrative embodiment the vehicle is also outfitted with a communication transceiver such as but not limited to a BLUETOOTH transceiver. This transceiver may allow communication with the nomadic device using a direct signal .

It should be understood that the communication between nomadic device server and vehicle may be performed in a number of ways and is presented for illustrative purposes. illustrates various alternatives for communicating data. For example and without limitation data communication may be partially or entirely cellular or WiFi or a combination of cellular and WiFi.

In this illustrative embodiment a communications module can include a cellular e.g. and without limitation GSM or CDMA antenna that communicates with a remote server over a cellular network. The received cellular signal may be sent from the cellular antenna to a multi band cellular e.g. and without limitation GSM or CDMA decoder that processes the received signal to produce information usable by the microprocessor .

In this illustrative embodiment the multi band cellular chip including flash memory and RAM is installed in the module as part of a removable device including a SIM card . The SIM card may contain user identifying information that allows access to the cellular network under a particular user s plan.

Additionally the module includes a GPS chip that can process and decode a signal from the GPS antenna and send this information to a microprocessor .

The microprocessor is also in communication with a vehicle data bus that provides access to various vehicle modules such as RF module . Other modules not shown include but are not limited to the vehicle cluster a remote off board GPS system a radio module etc. Non limiting examples of a vehicle data bus include an SAE J1850 bus a CAN bus a GMLAN bus and any other vehicle data buses known in the art. For illustration purposes only are represented as using a CAN bus.

In another embodiment the GPS antenna may be attached to the module separately from this board . When a signal comes in from the cellular antenna and or the GPS antenna the signal may be sent to the corresponding cellular GPS chip for processing and then passed to the microprocessor . The microprocessor interfaces with the CAN transceiver to connect to a vehicle network and vehicle modules such as RF module .

In this illustrative embodiment the removable board may contain a SIM card and a multi band cellular chip as well as a flash memory and RAM . Signals from the cellular antenna may be sent to the board for processing by the multi band cellular chip before being sent to the microprocessor .

Again in this embodiment the cellular antenna may send a signal to the multi band cellular including flash memory and RAM . The signal may be processed and sent to the microprocessor . The multi band cellular chip may be located on a removable circuit board which may also include a SIM card .

In some embodiments input s may be received in the vehicle through tactile and or audible inputs. Accordingly the module may process such inputs received from one or more vehicle microphones not shown and one or more touch sensitive vehicle controls not shown via vehicle network .

Use of the communications system may be provided once a vehicle user is a registered user. Accordingly a vehicle user may register one or more devices nomadic device and or personal computer to use the communications system block in order to gain access to various vehicle based services from the nomadic device and or personal computer . Examples of such vehicle based services without limitation may include remote lock and unlock remote start vehicle tracking remote control of vehicle controls e.g. and without limitation radio and HVAC data download and others.

Registration may occur from a nomadic device and or personal computer using an Internet connection. In some embodiments the vehicle user may download a software application e.g. a mobile application to the personal computer and or nomadic device . Using this application the vehicle user may remotely operate one or more vehicle functions and or controls via system . In order to download this application the vehicle user may additionally or alternatively register for the service. Registration may occur for example through a website.

In some embodiments the applications may be located and executing on a remote computing system such as server or a different server in communication with system . In this case an application programming interface API may be installed on the nomadic device and or personal computer and or a web based interface may be used in order to operate the remotely executing application.

The registration process may be but not necessarily a single event such that the step may not occur subsequent to a first use of the system . During the registration process the vehicle user may establish one or more forms of identification to identify the vehicle user. Such forms of identification may include a username and password one or more security questions a VIN a mobile identification number MIN or a combination of such identification items. Additionally during the registration process one or more identifiers such as a phone number associated with the vehicle user may be provided to identify the nomadic device and or PC which serves as the primary or controlling device. Also during the registration process an identification associated with the module e.g. and without limitation a VIN or Electronic Serial Number may be provided to identify the vehicle having the vehicle controls which may be controlled via the vehicle communication system .

Once the user is registered the vehicle user may login from the nomadic device and or personal computer block . A login may include without limitation inputting the vehicle user identification information created by the user during registration. The input may be one or more touch sensitive inputs and or one or more voice inputs. In some embodiments the login information may be saved in memory. In this case the vehicle user may use the vehicle based services without inputting login information.

In some embodiments one or more commands for a vehicle based service may be input and received by the personal computer or nomadic device block . Where the nomadic device personal computer or the remote computing system has software application installed this application may receive the command s . Such commands may be input using tactile and or audible inputs. Audible inputs may include one or more spoken commands.

Vehicle communication module information may be received identifying the vehicle communication module block . Module information may include for example an electronic serial number associated with the module . This information may be received from the vehicle user via user input. The module information may be received from the module by the user after a key on event in the vehicle. The user may input this information at the ND and or PC .

In some embodiments the module information may be stored in memory at one or more of the nomadic device personal computer or the remote computing system during for example registration. In this case the module information may be received from memory. In some embodiments the module information may be an electronic serial number ESN associated with the module . This module information may be used to tie the user device nomadic device and or personal computer to the module so that data and information may be exchanged.

Since a vehicle user may command one or more vehicle controls from a nomadic device or a personal computer either or both devices may be registered. As represented by block one or more determinations may be made relating to the type of device used by the vehicle user.

If a nomadic device is used nomadic device information may be obtained in order for the server to identify the nomadic device block . The nomadic device information may be input manually by a vehicle user from the nomadic device or obtained automatically. Such information may include a mobile identification number e.g. a phone number .

Additionally one or more registration codes may be input to and received by the nomadic device block which may be used by the system e.g. at server to confirm block that the nomadic device and therefore the vehicle user is registered block . The registration code s may be received by a vehicle user from the OEM via for example a vehicle dealer or a third party e.g. a telematics service provider either through a physical exchange e.g. in person or in a telephone call or from an Internet based exchange e.g through an email exchange or a website . Once received the code may be input by the vehicle user. In some embodiments the registration code and any associated authorization codes may periodically change and as such a new registration code may be received and input by the vehicle user. The registration code s may include numbers letters characters or a combination of numbers letters and characters. Additionally the code s may comprise graphics and colors. In some embodiments the registration code s may be input by the vehicle user and stored in memory e.g. locally or remotely so that thereafter the code is automatically obtained.

The server may store a registration code which may be compared to the registration code received by the nomadic device as part of the confirmation process block to register the nomadic device block . The confirmation process may occur at server . In some embodiments the comparison may be made to confirm that the codes are the same. Alternatively the comparison may be made of different but complementary codes. As one non limiting example the registration code from the vehicle user may be ABCD while the registration code on the server may be 1234. Accordingly the server may receive the ABCD registration code and based on the correspondence between ABCD and 1234 the nomadic device may be recognized block .

If the registration code is not confirmed block the registration code may be requested and in some embodiments the request presented at the nomadic device block . The registration code may be re entered block .

Referring back to block if the vehicle user is using personal computer information about the personal computer may be obtained in order for the server to identify the personal computer block . Non limiting examples of personal computer information may include an IP address a MAC address or other like identifier. This information may be input by the vehicle user or obtained automatically.

As with when a nomadic device is used a registration code may be input to and received by the personal computer block so that the personal computer is registered block . If the registration code s is not confirmed a request for the registration code may be transmitted to the personal computer and in some embodiments presented at the computer block . Details of the confirmation process block and further details about the registration code s are described above. Accordingly for purposes of brevity these details are not herein repeated. In some embodiments the process illustrated in may be time limited. Accordingly a timer e.g. a clock on the nomadic device the personal computer or the server may be used to confirm that the registration process is performed within a predetermined time.

As represented by circle block A the authentication process may further include one or more processes at the vehicle . One non limiting example of this authentication process is provided in .

The authentication request may be received in the vehicle by the module block . In some embodiments the authentication request may not be received until the registration code s is confirmed. In other embodiments the authentication request may be received at any time. Accordingly the order of the processes illustrated in is non limiting and may be modified to best fit the particular implementations of the invention. The authentication request may include an identification of the device the user account associated with the user or both. The authentication request may also include the association of the device the user account or both with the vehicle.

The one or more commands for vehicle based services from the vehicle user may be received by the module block . The command s may be transmitted to the vehicle from nomadic device or personal computer directly or via server .

The authentication sequence may be initiated in the vehicle block . The module may monitor for the receipt or presence of one or more authentication items block . The authentication items may include but are not limited to one or more of the following individually or in combination 1 vehicle key 2 or more vehicle keys voice one or more codes e.g. numeric alphabetic or alphanumeric a pattern of maneuvers or a question and answer process. In some embodiments the module may monitor that one or more of these authentication items are within the vehicle. As one non limiting example the RF module e.g. a PEPS receiver may monitor for the presence of at least two programmed vehicle keys. If detected the vehicle user may be confirmed as authenticated and further in the vehicle.

In other alternative or additional embodiments the module may monitor for authentication items that are received from a remote source such as nomadic device and or personal computer . As one non limiting example the module may monitor for a code which may be different than the registration code described with respect to or a pattern of maneuvers input at the nomadic device or personal computer . The software application may receive these authentication items and transmit a confirmation e.g. and without limitation a confirmation flag indicating the authentication status of the vehicle user based on the authentication item e.g. the code or the maneuvers . The module in turn may monitor for the presence of this confirmation flag block .

Of course the code or maneuvers in the non limiting example above may be provided in the vehicle. For example the vehicle user may input the code using the vehicle s HMI e.g. and without limitation a touchscreen display a microphone one or more controls in the center stack a vehicle keypad and others . Accordingly the monitoring may be for authentication items at least some of which may be provided in the vehicle or remote from the vehicle.

In some embodiments the authentication sequence may be time limited. Accordingly if the vehicle based authentication sequence is not completed within the time period the command s for vehicle based services rejected. In this case a timer may be initiated as part of the authentication sequence block . The module may use a vehicle clock a GPS clock a crystal oscillator or other like timer for measuring the time. The time period may be measured in seconds minutes clock cycles or variations thereof.

In the illustrative embodiment of monitoring for the receipt and or presence of the authentication items may occur if the monitored period of time has not expired block . Otherwise the authorization process may be suspended block . In some embodiments when the process is suspended the authentication process may be restarted.

If one or more authentication items have not been received block the module may continue to monitor for the authentication item s until the time has expired block . Additionally the time may continue to be monitored if one or more authentication items have been received but the items are not valid or recognized block . Non limiting examples where one or more authentication items may not be recognized include but are not limited to one key in the vehicle where two are required incorrect code s incorrect maneuver s voice is not recognized and the like. Accordingly if the time has not expired block one or more authentication items may continue to be provided block unless the number of attempts has been exceeded block . The number of attempts may be predetermined by the OEM or VCIS provider . In some embodiments the vehicle user may get a single attempt. Once the number of attempts has been exceeded the authorization process may be suspended block . In some embodiments the authentication process may be restarted.

It will be appreciated that the time periods and may comprise a single time period. For example the receipt block and recognition block of the authentication items may occur in the same time period in order for the user to be authorized. Alternatively the time periods may be separate time periods measured by separate timers or resetting a timer to measure the time of receipt block or recognition block of the authentication items.

If the time has expired the process may be suspended block . In some embodiments the authentication process may be restarted.

If one or more authentication items are recognized block the vehicle user may be authenticated and authorized to use the VCIS and the command s accepted block . In some embodiments recognition of the authentication item s may indicate that an authorized user is in the vehicle.

In some embodiments the vehicle user may be provided with instructions for the authentication process. These instructions may be presented audibly and or visually at the nomadic device personal computer and or in the vehicle e.g. and without limitation at a vehicle display . These instructions may be provided as the vehicle user performs each step of the authorization process. In some embodiments the instructions may not be provided until is apparent that the vehicle user requires assistance. As one non limiting non exhaustive example the vehicle user may be provided instructions if the number of times to input the authentication item s has been exceeded.

After such information is received by the server block including user identification information the server may determine that a new user account is requested based on for example the user information and the module information. Accordingly a user account for the user may be created.

One or more notifications may be transmitted to the authorizing user e.g. the user already having authorization indicating that a user has requested authorization block . An authorizing user may be a vehicle dealer or a private owner of the vehicle. The user requesting authorization may be an additional user and or a substitute user of the system.

The notification may state as a non limiting example a new remote user name of user has requested to be account owner current owner is name of current owner . The notification may also include instructions for the authorizing user to accept or reject the request. This notification may be received on the module display e.g. and without limitation as a pop up notification and or in the vehicle as a voice notification. In additional or alternative embodiments the notification may be received on the ND and or PC as an email a text message instant message web based message and the like block .

In one embodiment the authorization may be accepted rejected by the requesting user who then if accepted becomes the additional substitute user . However a notification may be received at the ND and or PC notifying the current owner that authorization is being requested and or authorization was accepted rejected.

If the request is rejected by the authorizing user the requesting user s may not be authorized to use the system. However if accepted by the authorizing user the requesting user s may be added substituted block and the user authorized block .

In some embodiments as illustrated in multiple notifications may be sent to the authorizing user. For example a first notification block may state that authorization is requested as described above .

If authorization is accepted the additional substitute user s may only be permitted limited operation of the module . As some non limiting non exhaustive examples the additional user s may be restricted from GPS tracking vehicle lock and or unlock and vehicle charging schedule.

Additional notification s may be transmitted after the first notification for granting authorization to the additional substitute user s . If authorization is accepted the additional substitute user may operate all functions of the module block .

In some embodiments there may be a period of time that elapses before the additional notification s are transmitted. The period of time may be in seconds minutes hours days or variations thereof. The time gap may provide additional confirmation that the additional substitute user is authorized. For example if the period of time that elapses is 24 hours the time gap may confirm that an owner has confirmed authorization of the additional substitute user after the second notification because a non owner may not have 24 hour access to the vehicle.

In some instances however a vehicle technician may have longer than 24 hour access to the vehicle. In this case if the unscrupulous technician attempts to self authorize access to the system e.g. via the module the vehicle owner may be notified at ND and or PC . The vehicle owner may have an override option which disables authorization to the system . Alternatively accepting or rejecting authorization after the second notification may only be permitted from the ND and or PC so that accepting rejecting authorization is not permitted from the vehicle.

An authorized user may monitor the usage of the VCIS . illustrates the process for informing an authorized vehicle user about system usage.

A request may be received in the vehicle or remotely from the vehicle block . The request may be received from an authorized user and or the module . The request may be for information for select system usage or all system usage. Accordingly the usage information may be received according to the type of information requested block and presented to an authorized user.

Non limiting and non exhaustive examples of usage information that may be obtained and provided to the user are illustrated in . For example if there are new nomadic device s that are associated e.g. paired with the module block a notification may be presented with this information to the user block . The notification may also include an identification of the nomadic device e.g. the phone number . Notifications may be provided in vehicle e.g. on a vehicle display or audibly from one or more speakers as an e mail text message a phone call or other such notifications.

In some embodiments the authorized user may indicate whether the associated nomadic device is authorized block by rejecting the request block or permitting accepting the request block . In some embodiments granting permission may not require input or instructions from the authorized user. For example the paired nomadic device may be automatically accepted based on information provided by the authorized user indicating which nomadic device s are authorized which may be stored at server . The same process may be performed with respect to other usages of the system as described below.

Additionally or alternatively the vehicle user may obtain vehicle tracking information block . In this case a tracking event for tracking the vehicle may be received by the module from another person at another device and the vehicle s position transmitted to server . As an example a service technician having access to the vehicle may attempt to track the vehicle s location. The vehicle user may be notified of the vehicle tracking block and may permit block or deny the tracking block .

Additionally or alternatively the vehicle user may request a command history report block . Commands received by the module may be stored in memory at the vehicle or on the server . Accordingly if a report is not requested if any command s are received by the module the may be stored block . If the vehicle user requests a report the report may be presented in the vehicle at the nomadic device or at the personal computer block .

Other non limiting examples of notifications not shown may include notification s relating to expiration of a subscription to the service and unavailability of one or more services of the module .

Although the above processes are useful to provide transfer of ownership and have some protections built in by virtue of the time the ownership transfer takes to occur there can also be instances where more immediate transfer of ownership is desired. In these instances there are several possible solutions for more immediate transfer of ownership exemplarly implementations of which are presented below.

For example if a person is buying a vehicle from a dealer typically that person has been working with a dealer for a while and an expected purchase date is known. Accordingly a dealer could begin an ownership transfer process in advance of the date and have the process ready for completion when the customer arrives. On the other hand a person may be buying a vehicle directly from another person and may want account administrative ownership transferred upon purchase. In such an instance it may be useful to have a model that can remove some of the delay from the transfer process.

Additionally in this example the process will send an email or text or other message if desired to the proposed new owner of the vehicle . This allows for capture of the new owner s email address and provides for the new owner to click a link contained in the email or take other appropriate action to facilitate the continuation of the transfer process. Once the new owner has clicked the provided link the process shown receives a response that the new owner agrees to the transfer process and can send an authorization to the vehicle .

In this illustrative example the transfer process is not completed until a new owner selects a confirmation of ownership change in the vehicle itself. This may be useful because for example if the sale falls through presumably the new owner will never take possession of the vehicle and the former owner to whom the vehicle still belongs can then decline or abort the final transfer preventing an inadvertent change of administrative rights.

Once a response has been received from the vehicle indicating that the new owner or a representative thereof is in possession of the vehicle and confirms the final transfer the process can decommission the old administrative account . All administrative rights can then be transferred to the new owner of the vehicle .

In this workflow there are four actors a vehicle a service provider a seller and a buyer . In the immediate direct transfer process a seller wishes to transfer ownership and administrative rights to a buyer. The seller in this example initiates the process by going to a for example web based administration page and clicking on the appropriate link. Another possibility is that the seller accesses the appropriate link through for example a mobile device menu in communication with the vehicle computing system a mobile device menu on a running vehicle control application a vehicle system screen menu or any other suitable way of controlling administrating vehicle rights.

Clicking on the link or otherwise activating the transfer in this example sends a request to the service provider which then initiates a wizard to walk the former owner through ownership administrative rights transfer . Once the transfer wizard has finished the service provider may also send an email to the new owner with a transfer process for the new owner outlined therein. Again this could be a text message SMS message or any other suitable means of notifying the new owner.

The new owner would then register some amount of personal information and finish the registration process relaying the entered information back to the service provider . The service provider can then send a final authorization request to the vehicle itself which will make available an option to complete the transfer upon the next key on or any subsequent key on event.

At the vehicle once a new owner is ready to complete the transfer the new owner can key on the vehicle to receive an option to complete the process . The new owner can confirm the completion of the process once in possession of the vehicle causing the vehicle to send a notification to the service provider.

Once the final notification has been received from the vehicle the service provider can decommission the old user s administrative profile and account and activate the new user as a full administrator .

A new owner may enter the vehicle and try to access a feature requiring administrative rights to access and thus discover that rights were never transferred. Accordingly the new user through a vehicle menu or a phone in communication with the vehicle for example may initiate a transfer of administrative rights. The process outlined in may receive this request for rights transfer .

Although not necessary it may be useful to require some interaction with the vehicle itself to initiate this process. Using a vehicle menu or phone prevents someone from for example simply logging on to a website and attempting to co opt ownership rights. Although such a transfer may still need the vehicle to be completed it could be a source of irritation for a current owner. Starting the process in the vehicle at least usually ensures that the initiator had at least one authorized instance of vehicle use.

Once the request for rights transfer has been received from a party other than the current owner an email may be sent to the current owner notifying the owner that a rights transfer request has been made . Additionally a confirmation of transfer rights may be sent to the vehicle although there may be some elapsed period of time before this second confirmation transfer occurs so that the original owner has an opportunity to view the email and be made aware of the transfer of ownership rights.

The process may then wait to see if there is a response from the owner of the vehicle . If the vehicle owner confirms that the transfer is appropriate e.g. the owner simply forgot to initiate the transfer but has no problem with the transfer proceeding the process may then approve the transfer immediately foregoing the need for a confirmation from the vehicle.

If a sufficient time period has passed the new owner may be able to confirm the transfer using the vehicle without interaction from the previous owner. This could be useful if the previous owner is unavailable deceased or otherwise unwilling to facilitate a rightful transfer. Once the time period has passed the process can check to see if a confirmation has been received from the vehicle confirming the transfer of ownership and administrative rights . Once this confirmation has been received rights can be transferred and the old account can be decommissioned.

While exemplary embodiments are illustrated and described above it is not intended that these embodiments illustrate and describe all possibilities. Rather the words used in the specification are words of description rather than limitation and it is understood that various changes may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.

