---

title: Providing power to remote emergency light fixtures
abstract: A remote emergency light system provides a base unit that is electrically coupled to one or more remote emergency light fixtures using cables. The base unit may provide power to each of the remote emergency light fixtures using the cables to activate the remote emergency light fixtures during an emergency condition. Alternatively, the base unit may provide a trickle charge to one or more remote emergency light fixtures when each of the remote emergency light fixtures includes an energy charging device. The base unit may be configured to communicate with the remote emergency light fixtures and determine when a trickle charge should be sent to a remote emergency light fixture, when a trickle charge should be stopped for a remote emergency light fixture, and/or when an energy charging device needs to be replaced. The cables can meet the requirements for Class 2 circuits as defined by the National Electric Code.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09328883&OS=09328883&RS=09328883
owner: Cooper Technologies Company
number: 09328883
owner_city: Houston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120507
---
The present disclosure relates generally to remote emergency light fixtures and more particularly to the interaction between a base unit and one or more remote emergency light fixtures that are electrically coupled to the base unit.

Emergency lighting is a requirement in a number of applications. Emergency lighting is designed to activate in an emergency situation e.g. power failure to provide egress lighting during the emergency situation. The emergency lighting must not only be installed according to certain codes and regulations but the emergency lighting must also function properly when called upon. Often activating the emergency is an automatic process that occurs when the emergency situation arises.

At times the emergency lighting is part of a system. For example a base unit may be used to activate one or more remote emergency lighting devices. When the emergency situation arises the base unit detects the emergency situation and activates the remote emergency lighting devices in the system. The footprint of the base unit is relatively large compared to the footprint of a remote emergency lighting devices.

For one exemplary aspect a system for providing emergency egress lighting can include a base unit that is electrically coupled to an AC power source and that can be configured to receive power form the AC power source and supply power to at least one emergency light fixture. The system can also include an emergency light electrically coupled to the base unit and positioned in an area remote from the base unit. The emergency light fixture can be configured to receive the power from the base unit. The system can also include a cable that has a first end that is electrically coupled to the base unit and a second distal end that is electrically coupled to the emergency light fixture.

In yet another exemplary aspect a method for delivering power to a plurality of emergency light fixtures can include the step of providing a base unit that is electrically coupled to a source of AC power. The base unit can be electrically coupled to a least one of the plurality of emergency light fixture using a cable. Power can be transmitted to at least one of the plurality of emergency light fixtures from the base unit through the cable.

In still another exemplary aspect a system for providing power to emergency egress lighting can include a base unit electrically coupled to a power source the base unit configured to receive power from the power source and supply a trickle charge to at least one emergency light fixture. The system can also include an emergency light fixture electrically coupled to the base unit and positioned in an area remote from the base unit the emergency light fixture configured to receive the trickle charge from the base unit. The system can further include a cable having a first end electrically coupled to the base unit and a second distal end electrically coupled to the emergency light fixture.

These and other aspects objects features and embodiments will be apparent from the following description and the appended claims.

Exemplary embodiments of providing power to remote emergency light fixtures will now be described in detail with reference to the accompanying figures. Like but not necessarily the same elements in the various figures are denoted by like reference numerals for consistency. In the following detailed description of the exemplary embodiments numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a more thorough understanding of the disclosure herein. However it will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art that the exemplary embodiments herein may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known features have not been described in detail to avoid unnecessarily complicating the description.

In one or more exemplary embodiments each base unit and each of the remote emergency light fixtures meets one or more of a number of standards codes regulations and or other requirements established and maintained by one or more entities. Examples of such entities include but are not limited to Underwriters Laboratories the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and the National Fire Protection Association. For example wiring the wire itself and or the installation of such wire that electrically couples a base unit with a remote emergency light fixture may fall within one or more standards set forth in the National Electric Code NEC . Specifically Article 725 of the NEC defines Class 1 circuits and Class 2 circuits.

Class 1 circuits under Article 725 of the NEC typically operate between 120 V alternating current AC and 600 VAC. The wiring used for Class 1 circuits under Article 725 of the NEC must be run in raceways conduit and enclosures for splices and terminations. Consequently wiring for Class 1 circuits must be installed by a licensed electrical professional.

By contrast Class 2 circuits under Article 725 of the NEC typically operate at lower power levels e.g. up to 100 VA no more than 30 VAC . The wiring used for Class 2 circuits under Article 725 of the NEC does not need to be run in raceways conduit and or enclosures for splices and terminations. Consequently wiring for Class 2 circuits does not need to be installed by a licensed electrical professional.

In addition each base unit and each of the remote emergency light fixtures are operate during an emergency condition in certain exemplary embodiments. An emergency condition may be any time when auxiliary lighting e.g. emergency egress lighting is needed to help bring people to safety. Examples of such an emergency condition may include but are not limited to a fire a tornado a power outage when a main source of power has failed a chemical spill and a gas leak. A normal condition is when there is no emergency condition.

The exemplary base unit provides power and or control signals to each of the remote emergency light fixtures e.g. remote emergency light fixture . . . remote emergency light fixture N . The base unit may provide the power which may include a trickle charge and or control signals to each of the remote emergency light fixtures using a direct wired connection and or an indirect wired connection as through the optional junction box . In certain exemplary embodiments the cable is used to electrically couple the base unit to one or more of the remote emergency light fixtures.

In one or more exemplary embodiments the cable meets the requirements of a Class 2 circuit under Article 725 of the NEC. Alternatively or in addition the cable can meet the requirements of a Class 1 circuit under Article 725 of the NEC. The cable may include one or more of a number of different types of wires and or cables. Examples of the cable that meets the requirements of a Class 2 circuit include but are not limited to an Ethernet cable telephone wire instrumentation wiring and mini universal serial bus USB cable.

Further when the cable is used a hardwire connection is made to one or more of the base unit a remote emergency light fixture and the optional junction box . One or more of a number of connecting devices may be used to create the hardwire connection. Examples of such connecting devices may include but are not limited to a RJ45 connector a RJ11 connector a RS232 connector a RS485 connector and a terminal block.

Other types of wires cables and or wireless technology may be used in conjunction with the cable to couple the base unit to each remote emergency light fixture. In addition the base unit may be communicably coupled to the user and electrically coupled to a user system not shown and the one or more external sources using one or more of any type of cable and or wireless technology including but not limited to the cable .

The exemplary remote emergency light fixture e.g. remote emergency light fixture . . . remote emergency light fixture N is any type of light fixture e.g. an exit sign an egress light a spotlight an overhead light that is activated or is designed to remain activated during an emergency condition. Some exemplary remote emergency light fixtures e.g. an exit sign can also operating during a normal condition. In certain exemplary embodiments each remote emergency light fixture is remote because it is positioned in a location separate from the base unit . For example a remote emergency light fixture may be positioned one hundred feet away from the base unit . The base unit may also include an emergency light fixture.

Each remote emergency light fixture and the base unit may comply with one or more standards regulations and or other requirements to be used in particular areas as a remote emergency light fixture. A remote emergency light fixture typically includes an emergency light source that illuminates during the emergency condition to provide emergency egress lighting. In certain exemplary embodiments the emergency light source may be any type of light source including but not limited to light emitting diode LED halogen and metal halide.

Each exemplary remote emergency light fixture communicates with the base unit using cable . Alternatively each remote emergency light fixture communicates with the base unit using one or more other types of wires and or wireless technology. The positioning of the remote emergency light fixtures relative to the base unit may depend on one or more of a number of factors including but not limited to losses in the wires used the wireless technology being used or one or more standards directed to emergency lighting.

The exemplary remote emergency light fixtures include an energy storage device . In certain exemplary embodiments the energy storage device is electrically coupled such as by way of one or more cables to the power source of the base unit . Each energy storage device stores power or other energy that can be used to illuminate activate the light of the remote emergency light fixture . Examples of an energy storage device include but are not limited to a battery e.g. fixed rechargeable nickel cadmium lithium nickel metal hydride a super capacitor a fuel cell a flywheel and or any other suitable device capable of storing some amount of energy.

The energy storage device may be fixedly or removably coupled to the remote emergency light fixture . When the energy storage device is removably coupled to a remote emergency light fixture the energy storage device may be replaced. The energy storage device may be positioned inside of adjacent to or outside of one of the remote emergency light fixtures . In certain exemplary embodiments the energy storage device is coupled to one or more remote emergency light fixtures using any type of wired including the cable and or wireless technology and may output power to one or more remote emergency light fixtures . In certain exemplary embodiments the energy storage device may be activated i.e. instructed to release its charge to its corresponding remote emergency light fixture directly or indirectly by a signal e.g. activation signal sent by the base unit .

As discussed above each remote emergency light fixture is electrically coupled directly or indirectly to the base unit using at least the cable . When one or more of the remote emergency light fixtures is indirectly coupled to the base unit a junction box may be used. The junction box may be any device and or enclosure that electrically couples different segments of a cable or other types of electrical wire connections where for example one cable electrically couples the base unit to the junction box and another cable electrically couples the junction box to a remote emergency light fixture . The exemplary junction box electrically couples each segment of the cable using one or more of the hardwire connecting devices described above. In addition or in the alternative the junction box may be used to electrically couple other types of cable and or wire.

In certain exemplary embodiments the power source of the base unit is one or more sources of energy e.g. electricity used to provide power and or control to the base unit and or the remote emergency light fixtures . The power source typically provides electricity that is in AC format and or direct current DC format. The power source may be physically separate from the base unit as with a 24 VDC remote emergency power source that is connected to the base unit and or with 120 VAC household wiring that is connected to the base unit and or internal within the base unit such as with a battery .

In certain exemplary embodiments the power source provides power e.g. activation power a trickle charge and or a signal e.g. an activation signal to one or more of the remote emergency light fixtures when an emergency condition e.g. the main source of power has failed arises. In addition or in the alternative the power source provides power to one or more components e.g. the remote emergency light fixture manager the timer a light of the base unit . In certain exemplary embodiments the amount of voltage generated and or delivered by the power source is any amount suitable to activate the one or more remote emergency light fixtures and or operate one or more components e.g. the remote emergency light fixture manager of the base unit . In certain exemplary embodiments the voltage delivered by the power source is transformed rectified inverted and or otherwise manipulated at the power source and or within the base unit so that the various components of the base unit and or one or more of the remote emergency light fixtures receive a proper voltage level to operate properly.

In one exemplary embodiment a trickle charge is a continuous or periodic amount of power delivered by the power source to the remote emergency light fixtures . The trickle charge charges the energy storage devices of the remote emergency light fixtures . The amount of power in a trickle charge is a lower amount relative to constant power provided to a remote emergency light fixture without an energy storage device . Put another way the trickle charge is used to maintain an existing charge of the energy storage devices which requires fewer resources less energy than fully powering the remote emergency light fixtures . Consequently the base unit may provide power and or control to a larger number of remote emergency light fixtures using exemplary embodiments described herein.

The amount of trickle charge may vary. For example the trickle charge may be a few milliamps regardless of the rated voltage. As another example the trickle charge may be 2 A at a rated voltage of 48 V. As yet another example the trickle charge may be 9.6 A at a rated voltage of 24V. In certain exemplary embodiments the amount of trickle charge may be less than the maximum allowed under UL Class 2 requirements.

In certain exemplary embodiments when a trickle charge is provided by the power source to one or more remote emergency light fixtures the trickle charge is provided during normal operating conditions e.g. when the one or more remote emergency light fixtures are not activated and or during an emergency condition. The amount of trickle charge delivered by the power source to an energy storage device is typically determined by one or more of a number of factors including but not limited to the configuration and number of remote emergency light fixtures the type of wiring used the distance between the base unit and the remote emergency light fixtures and the capacity of the energy storage devices . In certain exemplary embodiments the trickle charge is provided as DC power e.g. 48 VDC 200 mA while in other examples it is provided as AC power.

In one exemplary embodiments the remote emergency light fixture manager sometimes called the manager identifies an emergency condition in which one or more remote emergency light fixtures must be activated. Specifically the remote emergency light fixture manager may identify directly or indirectly one or more indications that an emergency condition exists. In certain exemplary embodiments the remote emergency light fixture manager identifies an emergency condition by communicating with one or more external sources . For example the manager can monitor a main source of power and determine when the main source of power has failed. As another example the manager can communicate with a fire detection system and receive a signal from the fire protection system when a fire has been detected. As discussed above other emergency conditions may include but are not limited to smoke a chemical spill and a gas leak.

Examples of an external source include a sensor device or other suitable component that monitors directly or indirectly for an emergency condition. The exemplary external source is communicably coupled to and communicates with e.g. send signals to receive signals from the remote emergency light fixture manager using wired including the cable and or wireless technology. Specific examples of an external source include but are not limited to a smoke detector a fire alarm a carbon monoxide detector a radiation detector and a protective relay.

In certain exemplary embodiments the base unit controls the operation and activation of the remote emergency light fixtures . In one example the remote emergency light fixture manager instructs the power source to send power for example as during an emergency condition and or to charge an energy storage device and or stop sending power for example as when an emergency condition no longer exists and or when an energy storage device is fully charged to one or more of the remote emergency light fixtures . If the remote emergency light fixture is an exit light or some other lighting device that operates during both a normal condition and an emergency condition the base unit can provide in addition to a trickle charge to the corresponding energy storage device an operating charge to the remote emergency light fixture during a normal condition.

The remote emergency light fixture manager may use the occurrence of an emergency condition received from one or more external sources to control the one or more remote emergency light fixtures . For example when the remote emergency light fixture manager receives a signal e.g. an outage signal from one or more external sources indicating that a main power source to a facility at which the base unit is located has failed the remote emergency light fixture manager may send power e.g. a trickling charge and or an activation signal to one or more of the remote emergency light fixtures . In such a case the one or more of the remote emergency light fixtures activate i.e. the lighting of the remote emergency light fixture is turned on upon receiving the activation signal.

In cases where a remote emergency light fixture does not include an energy storage device the remote emergency light fixture manager sends energy using the power source to the remote emergency light fixture . In cases where a remote emergency light fixture includes an energy storage device the remote emergency light fixture manager sends a trickle charge using the power source to charge one or more energy storage devices . The trickle charge sent by the remote emergency light fixture manager to the one or more energy storage devices may be constant or intermittent. When the trickle charge is intermittent the intermittency may be based on one or more of a number of factors including but not limited to a predetermined and preset period of time between the sending of trickle charges and the occurrence of some event e.g. passage of time the energy level of an energy storage device .

In certain exemplary embodiments the remote emergency light fixture manager also adjusts start stop increase decrease a trickle charge to one or more remote emergency light fixtures at various times and or in various amounts. The remote emergency light fixture manager may send and or stop a trickle charge to one or more particular remote emergency light fixtures or to all remote emergency light fixtures that are electrically and or communicably coupled to the base unit .

In exemplary embodiments where the remote emergency light fixtures include an energy storage device the power source of the base unit may be substantially smaller in size when compared to base units currently known in the art. As a result the profile of the base unit particularly when the remote emergency light fixtures include an energy storage device is substantially small compared to currently known base units. In addition the number of remote emergency light fixtures that are electrically and or communicably coupled to and controlled by the base unit may be higher than those in currently known remote emergency light systems because supplying a trickle charge during normal operation to each of the remote emergency light fixtures greatly reduces the demand on the base unit during an emergency condition.

In certain exemplary embodiments the remote emergency light fixture manager receives information e.g. an energy level from one or more of the remote emergency light fixtures to trigger a change in the delivery of trickle charge to the one or more remote emergency light fixtures . For example when the remote emergency light fixture manager is not sending a trickle charge to remote emergency light fixture the remote emergency light fixture manager may receive a signal from remote emergency light fixture where the signal discloses that the energy level of its energy storage device is less than a low energy level threshold. Alternatively the remote emergency light fixture manager receives a signal and compares the energy level of the energy storage device with a low energy level threshold. The remote emergency light fixture manager determines if the energy level of the energy storage device is less than the low energy level threshold. If the manager determines that the energy level of the energy storage device is below or at or below the threshold the remote emergency light fixture manager sends a trickle charge to energy storage device .

As another example when the remote emergency light fixture manager is sending a trickle charge to energy storage device of the remote emergency light fixture the manager may receive a different signal from the remote emergency light fixture where the different signal discloses that the energy level of its energy storage device exceeds an upper energy level threshold. In such a case the manager terminates the trickle charge to energy storage device . In these two examples the upper energy level threshold is greater than the low energy level threshold.

The upper energy level threshold and the low energy level threshold may be may be different for each energy storage device . For each energy storage device the upper energy level threshold and the low energy level threshold may be determined based on one or more of a number of factors including but not limited to the capacity of the energy storage device the type of energy storage device the distance and or type of the cable connecting the remote emergency light fixture to the base unit the environment e.g. temperature humidity in which the energy storage device is positioned the history of replacing the energy storage device and the historical charging times for the energy storage device. Each upper energy level threshold and low energy level threshold may be created and or updated by the user by default and or by the remote emergency light fixture manager .

In certain exemplary embodiments the remote emergency light fixture manager retrieves one or more thresholds from and or stores one or more thresholds in the storage repository . A threshold may be a limit that once reached triggers an action. A threshold may be used to determine when a trickling charge should be delivered to an energy storage device . Examples of a threshold may include but are not limited to an upper energy level threshold a low energy level threshold and a time threshold.

Optionally the manager may also retrieve one or more time records from and or store one or more time records in the storage repository . In certain exemplary embodiments a time record is an amount of time that is captured by the timer . A time record may be used for example to designate an amount of time between trickle charges for a energy storage device. A number of time records for each energy storage device may be maintained in the storage repository to track the performance of the energy storage device.

The exemplary manager also determines whether an energy storage device is failing. This determination may be based on comparing one or more parameters with one or more corresponding thresholds. For example if the amount of time as measured by the timer and in certain exemplary embodiments stored as a time record in the storage repository between trickle charges measured for example from receiving a previous fully charged signal to the current fully charged signal and or from receiving a previous low charge signal to the current low charge signal to a remote emergency light fixture is less than a time threshold the manager may determine that the energy storage device needs to be replaced. In such a case the manager may send a notification for example to the user to indicate that the energy storage device needs to be replaced. Multiple notifications may be sent with each notification corresponding to a different time threshold. For example a lower time threshold may correspond to an urgent notification while a higher time threshold may correspond to an informational notification.

In certain exemplary embodiments the time threshold is not the same for each energy storage device . For each energy storage device the time threshold may be determined based on one or more of a number of factors including but not limited to the capacity of the energy storage device the type of energy storage device the distance and or type of the cable connecting the remote emergency light device to the base unit the environment e.g. temperature humidity in which the energy storage device is positioned the history of replacing the energy storage device and the historical charging times for the energy storage device . Each time threshold may be created and or updated by the user by default and or by the manager .

In one exemplary embodiment a timer is positioned within the base unit and keeps clock time and or tracks one or more periods of time e.g. tracking a fixed period of time tracking a time between events as a time record . The exemplary timer is communicably coupled to the manager and is configured to track one or more time periods concurrently and communicates times to as well as receive instructions to start tracking a time period from the manager . For example the timer notifies the manager when a certain amount of time e.g. the time between sending a trickle charge and terminating the trickle charge has lapsed.

In certain exemplary embodiments the base unit communicates with one or more remote emergency light fixtures one or more external sources and or the user . One or more of a number of components e.g. remote emergency light fixture manager the hardware processor memory the storage repository of the base unit are used to perform the various functions of the base unit . Such components may be discrete components part of a semiconductor part of an integrated circuit part of a microcontroller and or part of a software based control circuit.

In one exemplary embodiment the base unit is implemented according to a client server topology. In this example the base unit corresponds to enterprise software running on one or more servers and in some embodiments may be implemented as a peer to peer system or resident upon a single computing system. In additional exemplary embodiments the base unit is accessible from other machines using one or more application programming interfaces and or user interfaces not shown . In one or more exemplary embodiments the base unit is accessible over a network connection not shown such as the Internet by one or more users e.g. user external source remote emergency light fixture . Further information and or instructions received and or generated by the base unit may also be stored and accessed over the network connection.

Alternatively or additionally in certain exemplary embodiments the base unit is a local computer system of the user . In such embodiments the base unit may optionally not be implemented using a client server topology. For example the base unit may correspond to a portable computer mobile device another type of computing device and or combination of multiple computing devices. Additionally or alternatively the base unit may be a distributed computer system and or multi processor computer system that includes multiple distinct computing devices.

In certain exemplary embodiments the base unit is electrically and or communicably coupled to one or more remote emergency light fixtures using at least cable . The remote emergency light fixture coupled to the base unit may be detachable and or portable. In certain exemplary embodiments the base unit includes one or more components e.g. transceiver for receiving and sending signals wirelessly.

The user interacts with the base unit for example by sending settings to and receiving information e.g. a notification from the base unit . The user is capable of interacting with the base unit using one or more of a number of devices including but not limited to a finger for example to manually adjust a setting on a dial located in the base unit a stylus a cursor of a mouse and a key on a keypad. The user is capable of interacting with the base unit in person e.g. physically touching a portion of the base unit or virtually e.g. executing a command using software . The user may be a plant manager a foreman a manufacturer a vendor of a remote emergency light system a safety professional a fire marshall a business owner a tenant a landlord an agent an administrator an energy manager a consultant a representative of the owner or some other entity that manages and or works in an area that has remote emergency lighting devices coupled to the base unit .

In one exemplary embodiment the user one or more remote emergency light fixtures and or one or more external sources use a system that operates using software. The exemplary system is or may contain a form of an Internet based or an intranet based computer system that is capable of communicating with the software. The system may include any type of computing device and or communication device including but not limited to the base unit . Examples of the system include but are not limited to a laptop computer with Internet or intranet access a smart phone a server a server farm and a personal digital assistant PDA . In certain exemplary embodiments the system corresponds to a computer system as described below with regard to .

The software may execute instructions on the base unit and or a separate device e.g. a server mainframe desktop personal computer PC laptop personal desktop assistant PDA television cable box satellite box kiosk telephone mobile phone or other computing devices from the base unit . In certain exemplary embodiments the device on which the software executes is communicably coupled by a network e.g. Internet intranet extranet Local Area Network LAN Wide Area Network WAN or other network communication methods with wired and or wireless segments. The software may also be part of or operate separately from but in conjunction with the base unit .

Continuing with reference to the exemplary base unit retrieves and stores information instructions thresholds input recorded amounts of time and or any other interaction received from a remote emergency light fixture an external source and or the user . More specifically the base unit uses the application interface to retrieve and store information measurements instructions settings input and or any other interaction received from the user one or more external sources and or one or more remote emergency light fixtures in the storage repository in accordance with one or more exemplary embodiments.

The exemplary storage repository is a persistent storage device or set of devices that stores software and data used to control one or more remote emergency light fixtures. The storage repository may store any type of suitable data associated with the remote emergency light fixtures including but not limited to thresholds and time records relative to charging one or more energy storage devices . Examples of a storage repository include but are not limited to a database or a number of databases a file system a hard drive some other form of data storage or any suitable combination thereof. The storage repository may be located on multiple physical machines each storing all or a portion of the information measurements calculations instructions selections input and or any other interaction. Each storage unit or device may be physically located in the same or different geographic location which may be within or outside of the base unit .

Optionally an exemplary hardware processor within the base unit is configured to execute software in accordance with one or more exemplary embodiments. Specifically the hardware processor is configured to execute the instructions used to operate the base unit including any of its components described above and shown in as well as software used by the user the one or more external sources and or the one or more remote emergency light fixtures. The exemplary hardware processor is an integrated circuit a central processing unit a multi core processing chip a multi chip module including multiple multi core processing chips or other hardware processor. The hardware processor may be known by other names including but not limited to a computer processor a microprocessor and a multi core processor.

In one or more exemplary embodiments the hardware processor is configured to execute software instructions stored in optional memory . The exemplary memory may include one or more cache memories main memory and or any other suitable type of memory. In certain exemplary embodiments the memory is discretely located within the base unit relative to the hardware processor . In certain configurations the memory may also be integrated with the hardware processor .

Optionally in one or more exemplary embodiments the security module is configured to secure interactions between the base unit and the user the external sources and or the remote emergency light fixtures. More specifically the exemplary security module is configured to authenticate communication from software based on security keys verifying the identity of the source of the communication. For example software may be associated with a security key enabling the user to interact with the base unit . Further the security module may be configured to restrict interactions remote emergency light fixtures that can be accessed and or controlled and or transmission of information e.g. outage signal as well as access to other information.

Referring to the base unit is directly electrically coupled to two remote emergency light fixtures i.e. remote emergency light fixture and remote emergency light fixture . Connected in series to remote emergency light fixture forming an array of remote emergency light fixtures are remote emergency light fixture remote emergency light fixture remote emergency light fixture remote emergency light fixture remote emergency light fixture remote emergency light fixture remote emergency light fixture remote emergency light fixture remote emergency light fixture and remote emergency light fixture . In this example all remote emergency light fixtures in the aforementioned array of series connected remote emergency light fixtures are emergency egress lights except for remote emergency light fixture and remote emergency light fixture which are exit signs.

The base unit provides a trickle charge to the array of remote emergency light fixtures beginning with remote emergency light fixture to keep the energy storage devices if any inside of each remote emergency light fixture in the array at or near a fully charged state. As a result when an emergency condition arises the base unit merely provides an activation signal to each remote emergency light fixture in the array. In other words because the energy storage devices are already fully charged the remote emergency light fixtures do not require additional power from the base unit to active and operate.

Referring again to connected in series to remote emergency light fixture forming a different array of remote emergency light fixtures are remote emergency light fixture remote emergency light fixture remote emergency light fixture remote emergency light fixture remote emergency light fixture remote emergency light fixture remote emergency light fixture remote emergency light fixture remote emergency light fixture and remote emergency light fixture . In this example all remote emergency light fixtures in the aforementioned array of series connected remote emergency light fixtures are emergency egress lights except for remote emergency light fixture and remote emergency light fixture which are exit signs. Array and array are parallel to each other with respect to the base unit in .

Again the base unit provides a trickle charge to the array of remote emergency light fixtures beginning with remote emergency light fixture to keep the energy storage devices if any inside of each remote emergency light fixture in the array at or near a fully charged state. As a result when the emergency condition arises the base unit merely provides an activation signal to each remote emergency light fixture in the array.

The system shown in has several benefits over emergency light systems currently known in the art. For example the system allows for the capability to run long distance low voltage class 2 cable between each remote emergency light fixture. The distance between remote emergency light fixtures may be increased because the class 2 cable is only used to trickle charge the energy storage devices located within the remote emergency light fixtures which causes the required current density of the class 2 cable to be very low. Alternatively a type of cable e.g. class 1 other than class 2 can be used to carry the trickle charge from the base unit to the remote emergency light fixtures. In such a case an existing system using class 1 cable can be modified so that a trickle charge is delivered to the remote emergency light fixtures without changing out the existing class 1 cable and or running additional wiring to the remote emergency light fixtures.

In addition the system allows for a significant increase in the number of remote emergency light fixtures that may be electrically coupled to the base unit . Further the system allows for a drastic size reduction of the base unit because for example the size of the energy source inside the base unit is greatly reduced. In addition the system results in significantly increased safety due to the redundancy of distributed energy storage devices inside the remote emergency light fixtures.

Now referring to the exemplary method begins at the START step and proceeds to Step where an electrical coupling is made to a remote emergency light fixture e.g. remote emergency light fixture . The electrical coupling may be made using the cable which can comply with standards for a Class 1 and or Class 2 circuit. For example the cable as well as the installation of the cable may meet a standard for a Class 2 circuit set forth in Article 725 of the NEC. The other end of the electrical coupling may be to the base unit . The cable may be coupled directly or indirectly to the remote emergency light fixture. When the cable is coupled indirectly to the remote emergency light fixture then a segment of the cable may be electrically coupled between the base unit and a junction box while a different segment of the cable may be electrically coupled between the remote emergency light fixture and the junction box .

In Step a determination is made as to whether the remote emergency light fixture e.g. remote emergency light fixture includes an energy storage device e.g. energy storage device . In certain exemplary embodiments if the remote emergency light fixture does not include an energy storage device then the base unit includes a power source that can deliver power to the remote emergency light fixture. If the remote emergency light fixture does not include an energy storage device then the NO branch is followed to Step . If the remote emergency light fixture includes an energy storage device then the YES branch is followed to Step .

In step a determination is made as to whether an outage signal is received. The outage signal may be received by the base unit . The outage signal may be received from one or more external sources . The outage signal may be any type of signal or communication from an external source indicating that an emergency condition exists. If an outage signal is not received then the NO branch is followed back to Step in a loop. If an outage signal is received then the YES branch is followed to Step .

In Step an activation signal is sent to the remote emergency light fixture e.g. remote emergency light fixture . In certain exemplary embodiments the activation signal includes the power needed to illuminate the lights of the remote emergency light fixture. The activation signal may be sent by the base unit . Specifically the power of the activation signal may be sent by the power source of the base unit . The activation signal may be sent using the cable . When the activation signal is sent to the remote emergency light fixture the remote emergency light fixture activates which illuminates the light of the remote emergency light fixture to provide emergency lighting. After Step the process ends at the END step.

In Step a determination is made as to whether a low charge signal has been received. In certain exemplary embodiments a low charge signal corresponds to one of a number of energy levels of an energy storage device e.g. energy storage device . Specifically a low charge signal corresponds to a low charge level which indicates that an energy level of the energy storage device has fallen below a lower energy level threshold. The low charge signal may be received when no power is being sent from the base unit to the energy storage device.

The determination may be made by remote emergency light fixture manager which compares the energy level of the energy storage device to a lower energy level threshold stored on the storage repository . The energy level of the energy storage device may be sent by the corresponding remote energy light fixture e.g. remote emergency light fixture to the base unit . The energy level may be sent by the corresponding remote energy light fixture to the base unit on a fixed time interval continuously on demand from the base unit or based on some other delivery schedule. When the energy level of the energy storage device is less than the lower energy threshold then the signal of the energy level sent by the remote emergency light fixture is a low charge signal. If a low charge signal has not been received then the NO branch is followed back to Step in a loop. If a low charge signal has been received then the YES branch is followed to Step .

In Step a trickle charge is sent to the remote emergency light fixture. In certain exemplary embodiments the trickle charge is sent by the base unit . The energy storage device e.g. energy storage device of the remote emergency light fixture may receive the trickle charge. When the energy storage device receives the trickle charge the energy level of the energy storage device increases. Put another way the trickle charge charges the energy storage device. The trickle charge may be a form of power sent by the base unit .

In Step a determination is made as to whether a fully charged signal has been received. In certain exemplary embodiments a fully charged signal corresponds to one of a number of energy levels of an energy storage device e.g. energy storage device . Specifically a fully charged signal corresponds to a high charge level which indicates that the energy level of the energy storage device exceeds an upper energy level threshold. The fully charged signal may be received when power e.g. the trickle charge is being sent from the base unit to the energy storage device.

The determination may be made by remote emergency light fixture manager which compares the energy level of the energy storage device to the upper energy level threshold stored on the storage repository . When the energy level of the energy storage device exceeds the upper energy threshold then the signal of the energy level sent by the remote emergency light fixture is a fully charged signal. If a fully charged signal has not been received then the NO branch is followed back to Step in a loop. If a fully charged signal has been received then the YES branch is followed to Step .

In Step the trickle charge to the remote emergency light fixture is stopped terminated . In certain exemplary embodiments the trickle charge is stopped by the base unit . The trickle charge may be stopped because the energy storage device is fully charged or nearly fully charged. By stopping the trickle charge to the energy storage device when the energy storage device is fully charged or nearly fully charged the energy storage device may have a longer life.

In Step a determination is made as to whether an amount of time between charges is less than a time threshold. The amount of time between charges may be determined in one of a number of ways. For example the amount of time between charges may be measured from receiving a previous fully charged signal to the current fully charged signal. As another example the amount of time between charges may be measured from receiving a previous low charge signal to the current low charge signal. The amount of time may be measured by the timer of the base unit . The time threshold may be retrieved from the thresholds in the storage repository . The determination may be made by the remote emergency light fixture manager of the base unit . If the amount of time is less than the time threshold then the YES branch is followed to Step . If the amount of time is not less than the time threshold then the NO branch is followed to Step .

In Step a notification to replace the energy storage device is sent. The notification may be sent by the remote emergency light fixture manager of the base unit . The notification may be sent to a user. The notification may be a sound e.g. a siren text e.g. an email a text message a pop up window visual e.g. a flashing light and or any other suitable format to communicate that the energy storage device needs to be replaced. There may be a number of notifications each corresponding to a number of time thresholds. For example there may be time thresholds of 5 hours and 10 hours. If the amount of time determined in Step is 8 hours then the notification may be a flashing yellow light on a control panel stating that the energy storage device should be replaced. If on the other hand the amount of time is 3 hours then the notification may be a siren a flashing red light and a text message to a user with a subject of EMERGENCY. 

In Step a determination is made as to whether an outage signal has been received. As in Step the outage signal may be received from one or more external sources . The outage signal may be any type of signal or communication from an external source indicating that an emergency condition exists. If an outage signal is not received then the NO branch is followed back to Step . If an outage signal is received then the YES branch is followed to Step .

In Step an activation signal is sent to the remote emergency light fixture e.g. remote emergency light fixture . In certain exemplary embodiments the activation signal instructs the remote emergency light fixture to illuminate the lights of the remote emergency light fixture. The activation signal may be sent by the base unit . Specifically the activation signal may be sent by the power source and or remote emergency light fixture manager of the base unit . The activation signal may be sent using the cable . When the activation signal is sent to the remote emergency light fixture the remote emergency light fixture activates which illuminates the light of the remote emergency light fixture to provide emergency lighting. After Step the process ends at the END step.

Computing device includes one or more processors or processing units one or more memory storage components one or more input output I O devices and a bus that allows the various components and devices to communicate with one another. Bus represents one or more of any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus an accelerated graphics port and a processor or local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. Bus can include wired and or wireless buses.

Memory storage component represents one or more computer storage media. Memory storage component may include volatile media such as random access memory RAM and or nonvolatile media such as read only memory ROM flash memory optical disks magnetic disks and so forth . Memory storage component can include fixed media e.g. RAM ROM a fixed hard drive etc. as well as removable media e.g. a Flash memory drive a removable hard drive an optical disk and so forth .

One or more I O devices allow a customer utility or other user to enter commands and information to computing device and also allow information to be presented to the customer utility or other user and or other components or devices. Examples of input devices include but are not limited to a keyboard a cursor control device e.g. a mouse a microphone and a scanner. Examples of output devices include but are not limited to a display device e.g. a monitor or projector speakers a printer and a network card.

Various techniques may be described herein in the general context of software or program modules. Generally software includes routines programs objects components data structures and so forth that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. An implementation of these modules and techniques may be stored on or transmitted across some form of computer readable media. Computer readable media may be any available non transitory medium or non transitory media that can be accessed by a computing device. By way of example and not limitation computer readable media may comprise computer storage media .

 Computer storage media and computer readable medium include volatile and non volatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media include but are not limited to computer recordable media such as RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by a computer.

The computer device may be connected to a network not shown e.g. a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN such as the Internet or any other similar type of network via a network interface connection not shown . Those skilled in the art will appreciate that many different types of computer systems exist e.g. desktop computer a laptop computer a personal media device a mobile device such as a cell phone or personal digital assistant or any other computing system capable of executing computer readable instructions and the aforementioned input and output means may take other forms now known or later developed. Generally speaking the computer system includes at least the minimal processing input and or output means necessary to practice one or more embodiments.

Further those skilled in the art will appreciate that one or more elements of the aforementioned computer device may be located at a remote location and connected to the other elements over a network. Further one or more exemplary embodiments may be implemented on a distributed system having a plurality of nodes where each portion of the implementation e.g. base unit external source may be located on a different node within the distributed system. In one or more embodiments the node corresponds to a computer system. Alternatively the node may correspond to a processor with associated physical memory. The node may alternatively correspond to a processor with shared memory and or resources.

The following description in conjunction with describes examples in accordance with one or more exemplary embodiments. The examples are for explanatory purposes only and are not intended to limit the scope. Terminology used in may be used in the examples without further reference to those figures.

Referring to consider the following example using the remote emergency light system of described above. In this example none of the remote emergency light fixtures e.g. remote emergency light fixture remote emergency light fixture N have an energy storage device. Initially there is normal operation with the external sources . As a result no signal or in the alternative a normal operation signal is sent from the external sources to the base unit . In addition all of the remote emergency light fixtures e.g. remote emergency light fixture remote emergency light fixture N are inactive.

At some point later in time there is an emergency condition that arises so that one or more of the external sources sends an outage signal to the base unit . The external source may send the outage signal to the base unit using a cable some other cable and or one or more wireless technologies. Upon receiving the outage signal the base unit sends power through the cables to each of the remote emergency light fixtures e.g. remote emergency light fixture remote emergency light fixture N . Upon receiving the power from the base unit through the cables each of the remote emergency light fixtures activate causing the light coupled to each remote emergency light fixture to illuminate.

Referring to consider the following example using the remote emergency light system of described above. In this example each of the remote emergency light fixtures e.g. remote emergency light fixture remote emergency light fixture N electrically coupled to the base unit have an energy storage device . Initially there is normal operation with the external sources . As a result no signal or in the alternative a normal operation signal is sent from the external sources to the base unit . In addition all of the remote emergency light fixtures are inactive.

Subsequently the base unit receives a low charge signal from the remote emergency light fixture . Specifically the base unit receives a signal in this case the low charge signal from the remote emergency light fixture where the signal corresponds to the energy level of the energy storage device of the remote emergency light fixture . The low charge signal may be sent using the cable . The signal once received by the base unit is compared to a lower energy level threshold. In this case the energy level that corresponds to the signal is less than the lower energy level threshold and so the signal is a low charge signal . The low charge signal may be sent by the remote emergency light fixture automatically or in response to a request not shown from the base unit .

Upon receiving the low charge signal and determining that the energy level of the energy storage device is less than the lower energy level threshold stored in the storage repository of the base unit the base unit sends power specifically a trickle charge to the energy storage device of the remote emergency light fixture using the cable . When the trickle charge is sent using the cable the timer of the base unit starts tracking time. During this time normal operation continues with the external sources .

After 2 hours the base unit continues to send the trickle charge to the energy storage device of the remote emergency light fixture using the cable . In addition the base unit receives a low charge signal from the remote emergency light fixture N . Specifically the base unit receives a signal in this case the low charge signal from the remote emergency light fixture N where the signal corresponds to the energy level of the energy storage device N of the remote emergency light fixture N . The low charge signal may be sent using the cable . The signal once received by the base unit is compared to the lower energy level threshold. In this case the energy level that corresponds to the signal is less than the lower energy level threshold and so the signal is a low charge signal . The low charge signal may be sent by the remote emergency light fixture N automatically or in response to a request not shown from the base unit .

Upon receiving the low charge signal and determining that the energy level of the energy storage device N is less than the lower energy level threshold stored in the storage repository of the base unit the base unit sends power specifically a trickle charge to the energy storage device N of the remote emergency light fixture N using the cable . When the trickle charge is sent the timer of the base unit starts tracking time. In the meantime the timer also continues to track the time since the base unit sent the trickle charge to the energy storage device of the remote emergency light fixture using the cable . During this time normal operation continues with the external sources .

One hour later the base unit continues to send the trickle charge to the energy storage device N of the remote emergency light fixture N using the cable . In addition the base unit receives a fully charged signal from the remote emergency light fixture . Specifically the base unit receives a signal in this case the fully charged signal from the remote emergency light fixture where the signal corresponds to the energy level of the energy storage device of the remote emergency light fixture . The fully charged signal may be sent using the cable . The signal once received by the base unit is compared to an upper energy level threshold. In this case the energy level that corresponds to the signal exceeds the upper energy level threshold and so the signal is a fully charged signal . The fully charged signal may be sent by the remote emergency light fixture automatically or in response to a request not shown from the base unit .

Upon receiving the fully charged signal and determining that the energy level of the energy storage device exceeds the upper energy level threshold stored in the storage repository of the base unit the base unit stops sending power specifically the trickle charge to the energy storage device of the remote emergency light fixture using the cable . When the trickle charge is stopped the timer of the base unit continues to track time since a the base unit sent the trickle charge to the energy storage device of the remote emergency light fixture using the cable and b the base unit sent the trickle charge to the energy storage device N of the remote emergency light fixture N using the cable . During this time normal operation continues with the external sources .

One hour later the base unit receives another low charge signal from the remote emergency light fixture . Specifically the base unit receives a signal in this case the low charge signal from the remote emergency light fixture where the signal corresponds to the energy level of the energy storage device of the remote emergency light fixture . The low charge signal may be sent using the cable . The signal once received by the base unit is compared to the lower energy level threshold. In this case the energy level that corresponds to the signal is less than the lower energy level threshold and so the signal is a low charge signal .

Upon receiving the low charge signal and determining that the energy level of the energy storage device is less than the lower energy level threshold stored in the storage repository of the base unit the base unit sends power specifically a trickle charge to the energy storage device of the remote emergency light fixture . When the trickle charge is sent the timer simultaneously a stops tracking and records for example in the time records of the storage repository the time since the base unit sent the trickle charge to the energy storage device of the remote emergency light fixture using the cable and b starts tracking the time since the base unit sent the trickle charge to the energy storage device of the remote emergency light fixture using the cable . During this time normal operation continues with the external sources .

Once the time between charges between the start of trickle charge and the start of the trickle charge for the energy storage device of the remote emergency light fixture has been recorded the remote emergency light fixture manager compares this time to one or more time thresholds. In this example the amount of time between charges is 4 hours. Each of the time thresholds may be stored in the thresholds of the storage repository .

In this example there are two time thresholds one for 12 hours and one for 5 hours. The time threshold of 12 hours only triggers a yellow flashing indicator on a control panel indicating that the energy storage device needs to be changed while the time threshold of 5 hours triggers a siren a flashing light at the base unit and a red flashing light on the control panel indicating that the energy storage device needs to be changed. Here because the time between charges 4 hours is less than both time thresholds the alarms associated with the time threshold of 5 hours are triggered by the remote emergency light fixture manager when the remote emergency light fixture manager sends a notification to the user in the form of the siren the flashing light at the base unit and the flashing red on the control panel. The remote emergency light fixture manager may send the notification using the cable some other cable and or one or more wireless technologies. During this time normal operation continues with the external sources . In addition the base unit continues to send the trickle charge to the energy storage device N of the remote emergency light fixture N and the timer continues to track the time since the base unit sent the trickle charge to the energy storage device N of the remote emergency light fixture N .

One hour later the base unit continues to send the trickle charge to the energy storage device N of the remote emergency light fixture N using the cable . The base unit also continues to send the trickle charge to the energy storage device of the remote emergency light fixture using the cable . In addition there is an emergency condition that arises so that one or more of the external sources sends an outage signal to the base unit . The external source may send the outage signal to the base unit using the cable some other cable and or one or more wireless technologies.

Upon receiving the outage signal the base unit sends power in the form of activation signals including activation signal and activation signal through the cables to each of the remote emergency light fixtures including remote emergency light fixture and remote emergency light fixture N . Upon receiving the activation signals from the base unit through the cables each of the remote emergency light fixtures activate causing the light coupled to each remote emergency light fixture to illuminate.

Exemplary embodiments described herein are directed to remote emergency light systems. Using exemplary embodiments a wide array of functionality e.g. controlling charging powering with regard to one or more remote emergency light fixtures is achieved in greater number and or over a larger area. Exemplary embodiments have smaller profiles higher reliability and increased safety functionality.

Certain exemplary embodiments offer several benefits over emergency light systems currently known in the art. For example certain exemplary embodiments offer the ability to place one or more remote emergency light fixtures a relatively long distance from the base unit. The distance between remote emergency light fixtures may be increased because the class 2 cable is used. When the power delivered to the remote emergency light fixtures is a trickle charge the remote emergency light fixtures may be placed an even greater distance from the base unit. In such a case the energy storage devices located within the remote emergency light fixtures require only a relatively low less than 300 mA current density which allows for the use of the class 2 cable.

In addition certain exemplary embodiments allow for a significant increase in the number of remote emergency light fixtures that may be electrically coupled to the base unit. Further certain exemplary embodiments allow for a drastic size reduction of the base unit because for example the size of the energy source inside the base unit is greatly reduced. Specifically when energy storage devices are included in the remote emergency light fixtures the power source within the base unit is significantly smaller. In addition using certain exemplary embodiments results in significantly increased safety during an emergency condition due in part to the redundancy of distributed energy storage devices inside the remote emergency light fixtures.

Further using power in the form of a trickle charge where the trickle charge is cycled i.e. stopped when the energy storage device is fully charged and resumed when the energy level in the energy storage device reaches a lower energy level threshold attributes to a longer life and increased reliability of the remote energy light fixtures and the base unit. In addition using certain exemplary embodiments to monitor when a energy storage device is beginning to fail and notify a user of such an event increases the safety and reliability of a remote emergency light system.

In addition using certain exemplary embodiments allows for reduced cost to install and maintain a remote emergency light system. For example because the wiring used in certain exemplary embodiments is class 2 cable material may be saved by not requiring for example conduit and class 1 wiring. Further labor costs may be saved by not requiring a licensed electrician to perform the installation of the class 2 cable.

Although embodiments described herein are made with reference to exemplary embodiments it should be appreciated by those skilled in the art that various modifications are well within the scope and spirit of this disclosure. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the exemplary embodiments described herein are not limited to any specifically discussed application and that the embodiments described herein are illustrative and not restrictive. From the description of the exemplary embodiments equivalents of the elements shown therein will suggest themselves to those skilled in the art and ways of constructing other embodiments using the present disclosure will suggest themselves to practitioners of the art. Therefore the scope of the present invention is not limited herein.

