---

title: Systems and methods for sentiment detection, measurement, and normalization over social networks
abstract: A new approach is proposed that contemplates systems and methods to provide the ability to detect, measure, aggregate, and normalize sentiments expressed by a group of users on a certain event or topic on a social network so that the normalized sentiments truly reflect the sentiments of the general public on that specific event or topic. Additionally, the collected and measured sentiments of an individual user expressed on a social network can also be normalized against a baseline sentiment that reflects in order to truly reflect the individual user's sentiment at the time of his/her expression.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09189797&OS=09189797&RS=09189797
owner: Apple Inc.
number: 09189797
owner_city: Cupertino
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121025
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 551 833 filed Oct. 26 2011 and entitled Mood normalization in sentiment detection and is hereby incorporated herein by reference.

Social media networks such as Facebook Twitter and Google Plus have experienced exponential growth in recently years as web based communication platforms. Hundreds of millions of people are using various forms of social media networks every day to communicate and stay connected with each other. Consequently the resulting activities from the users on the social media networks such as tweets posted on Twitter becomes phenomenal and can be collected for various kinds of measurements and analysis. Specifically these user activity data can be retrieved from the social data sources of the social networks through their respective publicly available Application Programming Interfaces APIs indexed processed and stored locally for further analysis.

These stream data from the social networks collected in real time along with those collected and stored overtime provide the basis for a variety of measurements and analysis. Some of the metrics for measurements and analysis include but are not limited to 

In addition to the above measurements and analysis performed on the content of the data it is also important to analyze the aggregated sentiments of the users expressed through their activities e.g. Tweets and posts on the social networks as well. For a non limiting example such aggregated sentiments can be measured by the percentage of tweets expressed by a group of users on the certain topic over a certain period of time that are positive neutral and negative. Although such measurement of the sentiments of the users expressed over the social networks provide real time gauges of their views opinions such measurement may be biased due to various factors including but not limited to the type of users most active and thus most likely to express their feelings on the social networks timing and preferred way of expression by each individual user etc. Consequently as measured the sentiments of users expressed on the social networks on certain matters or events may not be a true and accurate reflection of the sentiments of the public at large.

The foregoing examples of the related art and limitations related therewith are intended to be illustrative and not exclusive. Other limitations of the related art will become apparent upon a reading of the specification and a study of the drawings.

The approach is illustrated by way of example and not by way of limitation in the figures of the accompanying drawings in which like references indicate similar elements. It should be noted that references to an or one or some embodiment s in this disclosure are not necessarily to the same embodiment and such references mean at least one.

A new approach is proposed that contemplates systems and methods to provide the ability to detect measure aggregate and normalize sentiments expressed by a group of users on a certain event or topic on a social network so that the normalized sentiments truly reflect the sentiments of the general public on that specific event or topic. Here the measurement of the aggregated sentiments expressed by the users can be normalized based on one or more of the natural bias of the social network on which the opinions of the users are expressed nature of the event or topic of the discussion and the timing of the activities of the users on the social network. Additionally the collected and measured sentiments of an individual user expressed on a social network can also be normalized against a baseline sentiment that reflects the natural tendency of each individual user and or sentiments expressed in other content linked to the individual user in order to truly reflect the user s sentiment at the time of his her expression.

As referred to hereinafter a social media network or social network can be any publicly accessible web based platform or community that enables its users members to post share communicate and interact with each other. For non limiting examples such social media network can be but is not limited to Facebook Google Tweeter LinkedIn blogs forums or any other web based communities.

As referred to hereinafter a user s activities on a social media network include but are not limited to tweets replies and or re tweets to the tweets posts comments to other users posts opinions e.g. Likes feeds connections e.g. add other user as friend references links to other websites or applications or any other activities on the social network. In contrast to a typical web content which creation time may not always be clearly associated with the content one unique characteristics of a user s activities on the social network is that there is an explicit time stamp associated with each of the activities making it possible to establish a pattern of the user s activities over time on the social network.

In the example of the system includes at least data collection engine and sentiment analysis engine . As used herein the term engine refers to software firmware hardware or other component that is used to effectuate a purpose. The engine will typically include software instructions that are stored in non volatile memory also referred to as secondary memory . When the software instructions are executed at least a subset of the software instructions is loaded into memory also referred to as primary memory by a processor. The processor then executes the software instructions in memory. The processor may be a shared processor a dedicated processor or a combination of shared or dedicated processors. A typical program will include calls to hardware components such as I O devices which typically requires the execution of drivers. The drivers may or may not be considered part of the engine but the distinction is not critical.

In the example of each of the engines can run on one or more hosting devices hosts . Here a host can be a computing device a communication device a storage device or any electronic device capable of running a software component. For non limiting examples a computing device can be but is not limited to a laptop PC a desktop PC a tablet PC an iPod an iPhone an iPad Google s Android device a PDA or a server machine. A storage device can be but is not limited to a hard disk drive a flash memory drive or any portable storage device. A communication device can be but is not limited to a mobile phone.

In the example of data collection engine and sentiment analysis engine each has a communication interface not shown which is a software component that enables the engines to communicate with each other following certain communication protocols such as TCP IP protocol over one or more communication networks not shown . Here the communication networks can be but are not limited to internet intranet wide area network WAN local area network LAN wireless network Bluetooth WiFi and mobile communication network. The physical connections of the network and the communication protocols are well known to those of skill in the art.

In the example of data collection engine collects data on activities of the users on a social network by periodically crawling the social network to collect the latest activity data from each of the users. Given the vast amount of the data accessible in a social media network data collection engine may collect data from each individual user selectively based on an activity collection schedule for the user. If a user s activities are not to be collected at the time of the crawling according to the user s activity collection schedule data collection engine will skip the content related to the user and move on to the next user whose activity is to be collected according to his her schedule. Such selective collection of data by data collection engine reduces the time and resources required for each around of crawling without comprising on the freshness of the data collected. In some embodiments data collection engine may run and coordinate multiple crawlers coming from different Internet addresses IPs in order to collect as much data as possible. Social media crawling engine may also maximize the amount of new data collected per HTTP request.

In some embodiments data collection engine may establish an activity distribution pattern model for each of the users over time based on the timestamps associated with the activities of the user on the social network. Such activity distribution pattern over time may reflect when each individual user is most or least active on the social network and the frequency of the user s activities on the social network and can be used to set up the activity collection schedule for the user. For a non limiting example the user may be most active on the social network between the hours of 8 12 in the evenings while may be least active during early mornings or the user is most active on weekends rather than week days.

In some embodiments data collection engine may also determine whether and or when each individual user is likely to be most active upon the occurrence of certain events such as certain sports event or product news e.g. iPhone release the user is following. Alternatively data collection engine may determine that the user s activities are closely related to the activities of one or more his her friends the user is connected to on the social network. For a non limiting example if one or more of the user s friends become active e.g. starting an interesting discussion or participating in an online game it is also likely to cause to user to get actively involved as well.

In some embodiments data collection engine may collect data on the activities of the users on the social network by utilizing an application programming interface API provided by the social network. For a non limiting example the OpenGraph API provided by Facebook exposes multiple resources i.e. data related to activities of a user on the social network wherein every type of resource has an ID and an introspection method is available to learn the type and the methods available on it. Here IDs can be user names and or numbers. Since all resources have numbered IDs and only some have named IDs only use numbered IDs are used to refer to resources.

In the example of sentiment analysis engine detects and identifies the sentiments expressed by the users in the collected data of their activities on the social network with respect to toward a specific event or topic via a number of sentiment text scoring schemes which take into consideration the ways and the nuances of how people express themselves within social media network in general and specifically within Twitter. In the non limiting example of Twitter there are significant differences in how people express themselves within character constraint of a tweet that traditional sentiment measurement technique do not handle well. Based on the analysis and testing of the mass amount of data that has been collected in real time and stored over time by data collection engine sentiment analysis engine is able to identify a number of twitterisms in the tweets i.e. specific characteristics of sentiment expressions in the collected data that are not only indicative of how people feel about certain event or things but are also unique to how people express themselves on a social network such as Twitter using tweets. These identified characteristics of sentiment expressions are utilized by the number of sentiment text scoring schemes for detecting the sentiments expressed by the users on the social network Here the sentiment of each user can be characterized as very positive positive flat negative very negative.

Once the sentiments of the users are detected based on the collected activities of the users sentiment analysis engine evaluates and aggregates the sentiments of the users positive or negative sentiments toward the specific event or topic. For a non limiting example analyzing iPhone related tweets on Twitter around the launch time of a new iPhone may show that 21 of the users are positive vs. 18 of the users are negative. If the time period is extended to one week or one month after the launch the social sentiment score may point to a different sentiment score higher percentage of users being positive or negative as the users have more time experience with the new iPhone.

In some embodiments sentiment analysis engine normalizes the aggregated sentiments of the users and or the sentiment of each individual user against a baseline sentiment that takes into account one or more factors bias which include but are not limited to the natural bias of the social network on which the opinions of the users are expressed nature of the event or topic of the discussion and the timing of the activities of the users on the social network. Here various statistical measures such as means averages standard deviations coherence or any combination of these measures can be used by sentiment analysis engine to normalize the measured sentiments of the users over time. Such sentiment normalization is necessary in order to obtain an accurate measure of the sentiment of each individual user and or the general public toward the specific event. In addition sentiment analysis engine may normalize the measured sentiment of each individual user against the natural tendency of each individual user and or sentiments expressed in other content linked to the individual user.

In some embodiments sentiment analysis engine calculates a social sentiment score for the event or topic based on normalized measurement of sentiments of each individual user or the users as a group. Here the social sentiment score for the event represents normalized sentiments of the individual user or users expressed on the social network toward the current event and or over certain time period depending upon the timestamps of the activities of the users being analyzed wherein such social sentiment score reflect either the true sentiment of the individual user or the sentiments of the general public.

In the previous example of analyzing sentiments of users around the launching of new iPhone the measured sentiment based on tweets of the users on Twitter is only slightly positive 21 positive vs. 18 negative toward iPhone launch. However since the sentiments expressed on Twitter tends to be more negative than the sentiments of the general public the slight positive sentiment reading is in fact much more positive when normalized by sentiment analysis engine against the negative bias of Twitter.

For another non limiting example the most intense negative sentiment expressed by users on Twitter tends to be toward things related to politics while the most intense positive sentiment is not as intense as the negative sentiment and focus on non controversial topics such as travel photography etc. As such sentiment scores measured by sentiment analysis engine have to be normalized with this knowledge in mind and a slightly positive reading on a political event may actually indicate that the event is fairly well received when normalized with the fact that most sentiments around political terms are overwhelmingly negative.

For another non limiting example if User 1 tends to be more positive in his her choice of words phrases e.g. he she always says that s great while User 2 tends to be more reserved in his her choice of words phrases e.g. he she always says that s ok then a positive expression e.g. that s great by User 2 is in fact quite positive when being normalized by sentiment analysis engine against his her negative bias while the same expression by User 1 may be just neutral when being normalized against his her positive bias.

In the example of the flowchart starts at block where data on activities of a plurality of users on a social network is collected. The flowchart continues to block where sentiment of each of the users toward a certain event or topic as expressed in the collected data of their activities on the social network are detected and measured. The flowchart continues to block where the detected sentiments of the plurality of users toward the event or topic are optionally aggregated. The flowchart ends at block where the aggregated sentiments of the users and or the sentiment of each individual user is normalized against a baseline sentiment so that the normalized sentiments truly reflect the sentiments of the public in general and or the individual user toward the event or topic.

One embodiment may be implemented using a conventional general purpose or a specialized digital computer or microprocessor s programmed according to the teachings of the present disclosure as will be apparent to those skilled in the computer art. Appropriate software coding can readily be prepared by skilled programmers based on the teachings of the present disclosure as will be apparent to those skilled in the software art. The invention may also be implemented by the preparation of integrated circuits or by interconnecting an appropriate network of conventional component circuits as will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art.

One embodiment includes a computer program product which is a machine readable medium media having instructions stored thereon in which can be used to program one or more hosts to perform any of the features presented herein. The machine readable medium can include but is not limited to one or more types of disks including floppy disks optical discs DVD CD ROMs micro drive and magneto optical disks ROMs RAMs EPROMs EEPROMs DRAMs VRAMs flash memory devices magnetic or optical cards nanosystems including molecular memory ICs or any type of media or device suitable for storing instructions and or data. Stored on any one of the computer readable medium media the present invention includes software for controlling both the hardware of the general purpose specialized computer or microprocessor and for enabling the computer or microprocessor to interact with a human viewer or other mechanism utilizing the results of the present invention. Such software may include but is not limited to device drivers operating systems execution environments containers and applications.

