---

title: Method and/or system for adaptive gaming experience
abstract: The subject matter disclosed herein relates to systems for providing an interactive experience to game participants.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09044678&OS=09044678&RS=09044678
owner: Disney Enterprises, Inc.
number: 09044678
owner_city: Burbank
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120615
---
This application is a Continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 833 151 filed on Aug. 2 2007 entitled METHOD AND OR SYSTEM FOR ADAPTIVE GAMING EXPERIENCE which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application Nos. 60 837 151 60 837 149 60 837 150 and 60 837 111 which were filed on Aug. 11 2006. All of aforementioned patent applications are hereby incorporated by reference in their entireties.

The subject matter disclosed herein relates to systems and methods for providing an interactive gaming experience.

Computing and network communication technology enable game participants to interact with one another and their environment as part of an interactive game experience. Game participants may interact with a user interface of a computing platform hosting one or more applications capable of providing a media rich game experience. Such computing platforms may be connected to other devices through a data communication network to affect a gaming experience in response to real time events. For example a game participant s computing platform may communicate with a server to obtain additional information. The computing platform may process this additional information to provide an interactive experience. Alternatively in a multi participant game a game participant s computing platform may deliver an interactive game experience to the game participant based on information received from another participant s computing platform.

In particular embodiments illustrated herein participants in an interactive game may physically move about in a gaming environment to interact with one another machines audio visual devices sensors and or the like. For instance a gaming area over a geographical region may be populated with one or more interactive installations to among other things provide special effects to be experienced by such participants. Such special effects may be generated in response to actions taken by the participants and or associated game states.

According to an embodiment a game experience provided to participants in a gaming area may be altered and or adjusted in response to feedback information. In one embodiment such a game experience for a particular participant may be altered and or tailored according to specific attributes of the particular participant. Alternatively such a gaming experience may be tailored and or altered in response to dynamic conditions.

According to an embodiment an interactive gaming system may provide an interactive gaming experience to one or more game participants game participant is to be used interchangeably herein with participant . In one particular embodiment a game participant may interact with an interactive gaming system through one or more mobile devices which are capable of communicating with one or more other elements of the interactive gaming system over a communication network. Here such a mobile device may comprise a computing platform comprising communication adapter to transmit information between applications hosted on the mobile device and other elements of the interactive gaming system using for example a wireless communication protocol. In particular embodiments a mobile device may comprise a general purpose device such as a mobile telephone personal digital assistant PDA notebook computer and or the like. Alternatively a mobile device may comprise a special purpose device such as jewelry a pin a bracelet a handheld device a computing platform embedded in a garment a vehicle and or the like.

In accordance with particular embodiments an interactive gaming system comprises one or more interactive installations provided at one or more locations over a geographical area. In one embodiment such interactive installations may receive information from a game participant and or mobile device co located with the game participant at one or more sensors. Additionally an interactive installation may provide a response to game participants as part of an interactive experience.

According to an embodiment a game participant may travel to different interactive installations while carrying a mobile device or to communicate with game server web server and or content server to receive a gaming experience based at least in part on a game state associated with the game participant. Such a gaming experience may also be tailored to locations of a participant during game play.

According to an embodiment a game participant and or an associated mobile device may be associated with one or more game states in which the mobile device may progress through multiple game states while delivering an interactive gaming experience to the participant. For example a gaming experience may comprise a puzzle which is solvable by correctly answering or solving a series of riddles or problems. Upon responding to such a riddle and or problem a participant and or the participant s mobile device may advance to a subsequent game state where for example a new riddle and or problem may be presented. The subsequent game state may be selected based in part on the participant s response. For example the subsequent game state may be selected as a first game state when the response is correct and a second game state when the response is incorrect. Alternatively or in addition the participant s response may indicate a participant s choice and the subsequent game state is determined in part by that choice.

Game state may be represented by any number of variables that are relevant to a particular game. For example game state may include a measure of strength wisdom experience tools collected and or the like. Game state may comprise or be based upon participant specific attributes such as for example age birth date gender personal preferences handicap status and or the like. Here for example such attributes may be represented by information maintained by a game server as metadata associated with a particular participant which in particular embodiments may be forwarded to an interactive installation in response to detection of a presence of the particular participant at the interactive installation .

Components of game state may be affected by a player s behavior as the player interacts with the game. A game state may also be characterized by particular actions that are enabled at that particular game state as well as information that is presented to the participant s in that game state. Here for example a particular game state may determine actions that a particular associated game participant may take or functions that may be available using a mobile communication device. Game state may also be affected by variables such as progress or lack of progress through various stages of a multi stage game. In a multiplayer game a game state associated with a particular participant may include a measure of one or more of the aforementioned variables as applied to other participants in the game. For example a game state associated with a particular participant in a multiplayer game may be based at least in part on progress or lack of progress of other participants in the game.

A game state may also include or be based upon environmental variables that quantify physical and virtual environmental variables that affect game play and may quantify the state of virtual characters or avatars. In one particular embodiment a game experience may be provided to a game participant as an associated game state progresses. Here such game state may progress as one or more variables affecting the game state change over time.

According to an embodiment game server and or content server communicates with one or more interactive installations and or mobile devices to provide an interactive gaming experience to a game participant. For example game content server provides information to an interactive installation and or applications hosted on a mobile device for presentation to a game participant in an audible and or visual format. Also game server may receive information from a mobile device and or interactive installation and communicate with one or more mobile devices and or interactive installations to affect a gaming experience for one or more interactive game participants.

A mobile device and or game participant may be associated with a location comprising information associated with a whereabouts of such a mobile device. and or game participant according to a point of reference. For example such a location may be represented as geographic coordinates such as latitude and longitude. Location may represent proximity to an interactive installation or simply that a mobile device is able to communicate with a particular interactive installation . Alternatively such a location may be represented as a proximity to a particular geographic reference point or landmark street address municipality or other political subdivision postal zip code and or the like. According to an embodiment game server affects an interactive gaming experience for a game participant at a mobile device based at least in part on a game state associated with the mobile device and or a location of the mobile device . For example while a mobile device and or participant is in proximity to a particular interactive installation and a particular game state exists game server communicates with the particular interactive installation in a manner that is compatible with the particular game state and or location. For example such a communication from game server may comprise a command to provide one or more special effects to a game participant located at the interactive installation . Similarly game server may communicate with the particular mobile device at the particular game state for transitioning to a subsequent game state that is compatible with being in such proximity to the particular interactive installation .

An interactive installation may comprise an input device to receive stimuli from game participants an output device to provide stimuli and an effects controller to integrate input device and output device with other elements of gaming system . Output device may comprise one or more devices capable of providing sensory stimuli to an interactive game participant including for example visual displays audio output devices electromechanically controlled devices e.g. animated robots door window openers force feedback air jets liquid sprays scent sprays vending machine access activating a locking device to open close a lock and or the like . Here such an output device by itself and or in combination with other output devices may provide special effect that may be experienced by a game participant at or in proximity to the interactive installation . Such a special effect may be initiated and or controlled by commands from game server for example.

Input device may comprise one or more devices capable of receiving information specific to the location of interactive installation including devices such as microphones cameras environmental sensors e.g. light temperature vibration and moisture electro mechanical switches and or actuators. Interactive installation may exist at a fixed location in the game environment or may be mobile such that its position changes during game play. Interactive installation may be manned or unmanned. In some cases interactive installation may be integrated with a character costume. Effects controller may comprise a computing platform which is adapted to communicate with input device and output device as peripheral devices over standard or special purpose peripheral device interfaces. Examples of standard interfaces include Universal Serial Bus USB Firewire Bluetooth wireless communication protocols and or the like. Here special effects controller may perform signal processing data compression decompression data encoding decoding of information to be transmitted between interactive installation and game server and or content server . Effects controller may also comprise a communication adapter to communicate with game server and or content server over standard communication protocols such as TCP IP and over data links provided according to versions of IEEE Std. 802.3 IEEE Std. 802.11 and or the like.

According to an embodiment an interactive installation may also comprise a radio frequency identification RFID energizer reader pair capable of detecting the presence of an RFID device which is co located with a game participant. When energizer reader pair detects a presence of RFID device in proximity to interactive installation e.g. from RFID device being within a detection range energizer reader pair may extract an RFID code from a received signal that is associated with an identity of a particular game participant. With an interactive installation being positioned at a known geographical location e.g. at an amusement park detection of such an RFID code associated with an identity of a game participant may be used to approximate the location of the game participant at the known geographical location of interactive installation .

Since RFID device may be carried and or worn by a game participant according to a particular embodiment a location of RFID device may be assumed to be the location of the game participant. Similarly since such a game participant may also carry a mobile device it follows that a location of the mobile device may be assumed to be the same as that of the RFID device and game participant.

According to an embodiment location server maintains and updates information indicating locations of game participants and or mobile devices associated with game participants in an interactive gaming site. Here for example location server may access and update a database not shown associating game participants with location information. Such location information may comprise for example a last known or approximated location of participants associated in records with information uniquely identifying the participants. Such location information may be expressed as for example geographical coordinates e.g. latitude and longitude or other geocode or proximity to particular points of interest such as particular interactive installations . Location server may update location information associated with a game participant in response to any one of several events such as for example a detection at an interactive installation positioned at a known location of an RFID device of a barcode signature of a barcode label co located with a participant and or mobile device or of a biometric signature associated with a participant. Alternatively if a game participant co located with mobile device is communicating with a wireless access point positioned at an interactive installation location server may update location information based upon an association of the mobile device with the location of the wireless access point . Here for example location server may make such an association of mobile device and wireless access point based at least in part on information e.g. including information uniquely identifying mobile device and or wireless access point in data packets received from mobile device through wireless access point . Similarly if mobile device and wireless access point have Bluetooth communication capabilities location server may make such an association of mobile device and wireless access point based at least in part on detection of a MAC address uniquely associated with mobile device at wireless access point . In another alternative a game participant s location may be determined from a photograph taken by the game participant and forwarded electronically. Using image recognition one or more visual elements in the photograph may be associated with a location such as an interactive installation . In yet another alternative a mobile device may determine its location from receipt of signals such as signals transmitted by GPS satellites and or other radio frequency signals and transmit a message to location server indicating such a determined location.

In one embodiment location server may maintain records of associating signatures e.g. RFID codes biometric signatures and or barcode signatures with particular game participants. In one particular implementation location server may comprise location server as shown in . Here interactive installations through may be dispersed over a gaming site and positioned at known locations. As participant P approaches interactive installation an RFID energizer reader pair not shown co located with interactive installation may receive a signal from an RFID device associated with and attached to and or co located with participant P. Here the RFID energizer reader pair may demodulate the received signal to provide an RFID code that is associated with P in a database maintained by location server . Upon receipt of a message from interactive installation of detection of the signal carrying the particular RFID code the location server may associate the particular RFID code with participant P and deduce that participant P is in proximity to interactive installation .

According to an embodiment an RFID device attached to and or co located with participant P may comprise a semi active RFID device shown in which is adapted to transmit a signal in response to first receiving an initial signal transmission from an energizer receiver pair located with an interactive installation rather than constantly transmit a signal. As illustrated in according to a particular embodiment an interactive installation may comprise an energizer receiver pair having an RFID energizer and an RFID receiver . In one particular embodiment energizer receiver pair may comprise one or more components and or systems provided by Axcess Inc. Here RFID energizer may transmit an initial signal encoded with information identifying the source energizer reader pair. Upon receiving the initial signal RFID device may transmit a signal to RFID receiver encoded with the information identifying the source energizer reader pair and additional information identifying RFID device e.g. RFID code associated with participant P . Upon receipt of such a response signal from RFID device at energizer reader pair location server may determine that the RFID device is in proximity to an interactive installation co located with the energizer reader pair for example. Additionally such semi active detection of RFID device may provide longer range detection than may be possible with the use of passive RFID devices while avoiding false detections with the use of active RFID devices. In alternative embodiments however an interactive installation may employ passive and or fully active RFID devices for detecting the presence of an RFID device as being in proximity.

Returning to in alternative embodiments determining a location of a game participant and or mobile device may comprise at an interactive installation scanning a barcode label co located with the game participant. For example a device comprising a label with a barcode signature may be co located with and or fixed to a game participant and or mobile device associated with a game participant. Location server may uniquely associate the barcode signature with the game participant. In one particular embodiment when a participant arrives at an interactive installation an operator not shown may scan a barcode label not shown co located with the participant. The interactive installation may then transmit information to location server representing the scanned barcode signature with information identifying the particular interactive installation where the label was scanned. Upon receipt of the information representing the scanned barcode signature location server may deduce that the game participant associated with the scanned barcode signature is in the vicinity of the interactive installation where the barcode label was scanned .

In another alternative embodiment determining location of a game participant and or mobile device may comprise at an interactive installation detecting a biometric signature associated with the game participant. Such a biometric signature may comprise for example a retinal scan finger print and or palm print. Here location server may uniquely associate such a biometric signature with the game participant. Accordingly by obtaining such a biometric signature from a game participant upon arrival at an interactive installation the interactive installation may transmit information representative of the scanned biometric signature to location server . Location server may then deduce that the game participant associated with the scanned biometric signature is in the vicinity of the interactive installation where the biometric signature was detected .

In other alternative embodiments determining location of a game participant and or mobile device may comprise for example using positioning system e.g. global positioning satellite or GPS capabilities of a mobile device detection of mobile device communicating with an IEEE Std. 802.11 hotspot at a known location or with a an IEEE Std. 802.16 base station at a known location for example. Here for example a mobile device may directly communicate with a location server to provide location information such as for example geographical coordinates or specific mobile communication access points at known locations. Such a mobile device may provide periodic updates to a location server in response to polling signals from the location server . Alternatively a location server may query the mobile device for location information in response to a query from game server for example.

According to an embodiment an interactive game system operator may register individual game participants by creating records associated with the game participants in a database comprising information gathered as part of a registration process. Such records may be used to collect and maintain information regarding game participants such as for example name age birth date food allergies handicap status e.g. no known handicap blind deaf wheelchair bound gender residence address and or any other information that may be associated with individuals. This information that is gathered may be used to tailor a game experience to particular preferences or needs of a participant.

As part of a registration process an interactive game system operator may also issue RFID devices to the participants and include RFID codes of the issued RFID devices in database records associated with the individual game participants. Such an issued RFID device may comprise an RFID tag that is worn on a game participant s clothing worn as a necklace wristband and or the like. Alternatively an interactive game system operator may issue barcode labels to the participants and maintain associated barcode signatures in database records associated with the individual game participants. In another alternative an interactive game system operator may obtain biometric samples of participants e.g. retinal scan finger print palm print and maintain associated biometric signatures in database records associated with the individual game participants. A location of a participant and or mobile device or being carried by the participant may be determined based on a location of the worn RFID device . Signatures associated with participants e.g. RFID codes barcode signatures and biometric signatures may then be populated to location server for use in detecting the presence of a participant at an interactive installation .

Alternatively a game system operator may issue barcode labels to be attached to carried worn or otherwise be co located with a game participant. Here a barcode signature of a barcode label may be associated with a particular game participant in database records. A location of the game participant may then be determined based upon the location of the barcode label e.g. at an interactive installation where such a barcode label is scanned by an operator .

As illustrated in interactive installations may communicate with game server location server and or content server over data links and according to one or more available communication protocols. For example an interactive installation may transmit messages to location server in data packets indicating detections of RFID devices . Similarly data packets may be used to transmit information between a game server and an interactive installation in connection with information received from an input device or provided to an output device . Here such communication may be enabled with Internet Protocol infrastructure supporting the use of UDP TCP IP HTTP and or the like. According to an embodiment interactive installations may be integrated with an interactive gaming system as atomic entities such that elements of an interactive installation are integrated with game server location server and content server over a single communication interface. For example communication between an energizer reader pair and location server and communication between a special effects controller and game server and or content server may be transmitted through a single communication adapter coupled to data communication network . Here separate individual TCP IP connections through the single communication adapter may provide communication between elements of an interactive installation and game server or location server . According to an embodiment a game participant may be associated with a mobile device which is adapted to communicate with game server and or content server over for example a wireless communication network. Such a mobile device may comprise a portable wireless communication device such as cellular phone or cellular phone capable of communicating with a base station and mobile switching center MSC operated by a mobile communication service provider. Such a mobile communication service provider may comprise an entity and or enterprise that is separate and distinct from an interactive game operator providing the interactive gaming experience. Here for example such a mobile communication service provider may charge a fee from a game participant using cellular phone or comprising for example a subscription fee and or per message fee. MSC may transmit data packets between mobile devices and game server and or content server over Internet using a TCP IP protocol and other higher layer protocols for example. Alternatively a mobile device may communicate with game server and or content server over a wireless local area network WLAN provided by one or more wireless access points dispersed over an area where game participants roam at hotspots according to versions of IEEE Std. 802.11. In yet another alternative mobile device may communicate with game server and or content server over a wireless metropolitan area network through base stations dispersed over a larger geographical area according to versions of IEEE Std. 802.16. According to a particular embodiment MSC may comprise any combination of equipment operated by a mobile communications service provider capable of transmitting information between Internet and mobile devices and or according to any one of several non proprietary communication protocols. Such non proprietary communication protocols may enable interoperable communication between and or among devices which are established and operated by different entities. Accordingly game participants may communicate with gaming infrastructure of a game operator through a mobile communication service provider which is an entity separate from the game operator . For example MSC may comprise a short message service center SMSC in combination with a carrier messaging gateway to enable communication between a mobile device and game server using text messaging according to a short message service SMS . Other such non proprietary communication protocols may include for example email including POP3 and or SMTP Wireless Application Protocol WAP Wireless Web HTTP TCP IP SIP real time streaming protocol RSTP IMAP MMS just to name a few. Accordingly in alternative embodiments MSC may comprise a wireless carrier Internet gateway to enable communication between a mobile device and game server using any one of several Internet supported protocols discussed herein.

Location server may determine locations of game participants and or associated mobile devices as interactive game participants roam. In one embodiment cellular phone may comprise a receiver for processing signals from a satellite positioning system such as the Global Positioning System GPS to determine a geographical location of cellular phone .

Alternatively location server may associate a participant and or mobile device with a RFID code of an RFID device such as an RFID tag that is to be attached to or otherwise co located with the mobile device and or participant. According to a particular embodiment location server may determine a location of a participant and or associated mobile device as being in proximity to an interactive installation when an associated RFID energizer reader pair obtains an RFID code associated with the participant. Location server may determine a location of a participant and or associated mobile device based upon an identification of a particular IEEE Std. 802.11 access point or IEEE Std. 802.16 base station at a known location communicating with mobile device .

In yet another alternative location server may associate a participant and or mobile device with a barcode signature of a barcode label that is to be attached to or otherwise co located with a mobile device and or participant. Here location server may determine a location of a participant and or associated mobile device as being in proximity to an interactive installation when a co located and associated barcode label is scanned at the interactive installation . In yet another alternative location server may associate a participant and or mobile device with one or more biometric signatures and determine a location of the participant and or associated mobile device as being in proximity to an interactive installation when at least one of the biometric signatures is detected at the interactive installation .

In addition to communicating with game server over Internet a mobile device may comprise one or more output devices such as for example a speaker for providing an audio output and a high resolution display capable of displaying text video images and or still images. Here such output devices may be used for presenting information rendered from media content received from game server and or content server for example. According to an embodiment media content may be encoded in a particular format that enables one or more mobile devices to render a presentation based at least in part on information encoded in such media content. Such devices may be implemented in hardware software or combinations of hardware and software. Such a presentation may comprise for example images text sounds other perceivable environmental phenomena and or combinations thereof. In some embodiments media content comprises information that may be used to render a presentation that is to be passively experienced by a viewer or listener. Alternatively media content may comprise interactive media content which is responsive to inputs and or stimuli from a user. Such interactive media content may be implemented in an interactive game to provide users with an interactive game experience for example.

A mobile device may also comprise one or more input devices such as for example a microphone camera keyboard keypad thumbwheel button or touchpad just to name a few. Here such input devices may receive information for transmission from a participant to other elements of gaming system such as for example game server . Here such an input device in combination with one or more of the aforementioned output devices of a mobile device may provide a graphical user interface GUI for receiving information. Also such a mobile device may comprise a computing platform for hosting software applications and or processes capable of communicating with game server and or content server .

While scripting layer may comprise context specific game logic game engine may be agnostic to any particular such context specific game logic. Accordingly interactive installations location server and other gaming infrastructure may be preserved while a different or updated scripting layer is integrated with game engine to give game participants a new and or updated interactive gaming experience. Likewise by providing an interface to atomic interactive installations interactive installations may be added to or removed from interactive gaming system without modifying the scripting layer .

According to an embodiment game engine comprises middleware that may be readily transported to computing platforms at different game play sites without substantial modification. Here scripting layer may be tailored to features of interactive installations at a different site and or specific game features to be provided. Also game engine may integrate context specific game logic of multiple interactive games on a single computing platform for providing multiple interactive games over a single site.

Game engine may also communicate with a user game state database through a database layer storing information such as for example information associated with game participants such as personal profiles participant specific information such as personal preferences age birth date gender residence and or handicap status information identifying a mobile device and game state. Here scripting layer may access information in database by invoking calls to game engine . Such calls may comprise for example queries for specific information in database retrievable through game engine and database layer .

According to an embodiment communication layer may facilitate routing of messages between scripts at scripting layer and through game engine and a mobile device location server and or interactive installations . Here for example communication layer may establish and terminate connections such as TCP IP connections used for transmitting information between a mobile device associated with game participants and context specific game logic of scripting layer . Scripting layer may access game state scripts which may comprise information describing specific actions to be taken for particular game participant game states for example.

According to an embodiment game engine and or communication layer may queue messages for transmission to mobile devices in response to calls from scripting layer in message queue . Messages in a queue for transmission to a mobile device or interactive installation may be maintained in an order that is to be processed by game logic hosted on the mobile device as part of an interactive gaming experience and or consistent with proper transition in game state. In one particular embodiment following transmission of a message to a mobile device from message queue communication layer and or game engine may require an indication of receipt of the transmitted message at the intended recipient device before transmitting a subsequent message to the intended recipient device. For example communication layer and or game engine may transmit such a subsequent message from message queue upon receipt of an acknowledgement message from the intended recipient device.

Also mobile devices and interactive installations may similarly queue messages for transmission to game engine through IP network . Here such messages may be maintained in an order that is to be processed by particular scripts in scripting layer . Again a subsequent message in message queue may be transmitted upon a determination that a previous message had been received at game engine .

According to an embodiment mobile devices communicating with game engine may transmit periodic heartbeat messages to communication layer for maintaining connections with game engine and or scripting layer . Following establishing one or more connections between a mobile device and game engine and or scripting layer communication layer may terminate or sever one or more of the established connections in response to an absence of receipt of a heartbeat message from the mobile device over a predetermined time period. In an alternative embodiment communication layer may transmit periodic heartbeat messages to mobile devices having connections with game engine and or scripting layer . Here a mobile device may terminate or sever one or more of its connections to game engine and or scripting layer in response to an absence of receipt of a heartbeat message from communication layer over a particular time period.

According to an embodiment game engine may communicate with a location server e.g. location server shown in for determining locations of mobile devices . In one particular embodiment scripting layer may call game engine for an alert upon detection of a mobile device being in proximity to an interactive installation . Such a call may be invoked for example in response to detection of a particular gaming state of a participant associated with the mobile device . In response to such a call from scripting layer for example game engine may transmit a message to the location server requesting that the location server provide an alert upon detection of a mobile device being in proximity to a particular interactive installation . Such a message may specify for example information identifying particular mobile devices and or game participants of interest and particular interactive installations. Such information identifying a particular mobile device and or game participants may comprise information representative signatures such as for example associated RFID codes barcode signatures or biometric signatures. Upon detecting that a particular mobile device and or game participant in proximity to a particular interactive installation of interest the location server may transmit a message back to game engine to report this event. In an alternative embodiment location server may automatically update game engine and or scripting layer on changes in location of mobile devices and or associated game participants.

Returning to game logic hosted on a mobile device may comprise a custom application compiled from source code developed in any one of several programming environments such as for example Java j2me BREW Windows CE API C C Adobe Flash Adobe Flash Lite and or the like. In one particular embodiment location server and or game server may pair a mobile device executing this application with a unique signature such as a biometric signature barcode signature of a barcode label or a unique RFID code of an RFID device to be co located with the mobile device and or game participant carrying the mobile device . Accordingly a location of a game participant may be determined as the location of an RFID device or barcode label being carried and or worn by the game participant. Likewise a location of mobile device carried by a game participant may be determined as the location of an RFID device or barcode label being carried and or worn by the game participant.

A game state machine hosted on a mobile device may communicate with game server over wireless network and network through a communication layer . Game state machine may maintain a current game state associated with a game participant and inform the game participant as to a next task mission and or objective that is required to advance to a subsequent game state. In one particular example for the purpose of illustration game state machine may inform a game participant of a need to find and climb a particular structure e.g. a statue in a garden. Upon reaching and or climbing the structure game server may transmit a message to state machine to advance the participant to a subsequent game state. Game state machine may then communicate with presentation layer to inform the participant of completion of the present task mission and or objective and inform the participant of a subsequent task mission and or objective.

Here accordingly game server may transmit a message to game state machine hosted on a mobile device to advance a game state of a participant based at least in part on a location of the mobile device and or participant. According to a particular embodiment location server may determine locations of mobile devices and or game participants as being in proximity to an interactive installation . In one embodiment with knowledge of a participant s current game state game server may request that location server provide an alert message to inform game server when the participant approaches an interactive installation e.g. detecting an RFID code from an RFID device associated with the participant and or mobile device . Here game server may determine that such an interactive installation is relevant to the participant s current game state. Alternatively game server may repeatedly poll the location server to determine whether the participant has arrived at a particular location. In another embodiment game state machine may coordinate with location server to affect objects located at an interactive installation . Initially game server may determine that a participant and or mobile device associated with game state machine has a game state and or location that is appropriate for affecting such objects at an interactive installation . Upon such a determination in a particular example game server may transmit a message to presentation layer to display a prompt instructing the participant to unlock a door by making a selection at a user interface of a mobile device e.g. press a key or make a selection from a GUI . Such a selection may initiate transmission of a message to game server which in turn may transmit a message to an interactive installation to unlock the door.

An intention of a current game may be to only allow registered game participants to pass through the door. If the participant makes the selection at the mobile device to unlock the door prior to being at or in front of the door game server may prevent the door from unlocking thereby preventing a non participant from entering through the door. In one particular embodiment in response to a selection at a mobile device to unlock the door game state machine may transmit a message to game server including information identifying the mobile device and or associated participant e.g. RFID code associated with mobile device and or associated participant . Upon receiving such a message game server may query a location server to confirm the location of the game participant. In one particular example game server may request and or query from location server for a list of RFID codes received from RFID devices by an RFID reader installed at the door. Game server may then selectively transmit a message to the interactive installation to unlock the door in response to confirming with location server that the participant is at or in front of the door.

According to an embodiment game server may employ any one of several techniques for associating a game participant and or mobile device with a game state. For example such a game state may be determined from information in a database regarding past game states inputs and or messages received from the participant and or mobile device associated interactions with interactive installations and or the like. Alternatively game server may receive messages from game state machine hosted on a mobile device updating game server as to a current associated game state. According to an embodiment a mobile device may be capable of rendering media content for presentation to a game participant through one or more output devices of the mobile device . Such media content may comprise for example video audio text or still image formats and or the like. Such media content may be delivered to the mobile device using any one of several techniques such as for example streaming loading the media content as part of an application that is launched to the mobile device and or transmitting the media content e.g. wirelessly for storage on a storage medium on the mobile device for retrieval by an application. Also game server may transmit media content for presentation on a mobile device which is then presented to the game participant in an intended format.

In one particular embodiment a mobile device may receive media content for presentation from a Universal Resource Identifier URI . Here for example game server may transmit a message to game state machine including a URI for presentation to a participant through presentation layer . Upon selecting the URI e.g. as a web link presented on a display to obtain media content through either streaming content layer and or web client layer . Here such media content may be delivered to presentation layer e.g. from web server using any one of several suitable wirelessly enabled communication protocols such as for example HTTP TCP IP SIP WAP real time streaming protocol RTSP SMS IMAP POP3 SMTP MMS to name a few. According to an embodiment game server may provide media content for rendering presentation to a game participant through presentation layer based at least in part on a location of the participant and or an associated game state. Here game server may select media content to be delivered and or rendered for presentation to a participant based at least in part on a game state associated with a mobile device and or location of the participant. Additionally camera layer may be adapted to format and or encode image data captured at a camera device not shown for transmission to web server or other devices through streaming content layer and or web client layer .

Upon selection of such media content in one particular embodiment game server may formulate and transmit a URI to a mobile device . Accordingly game server may tailor particular media content that is to be provided to presentation layer by appropriately determining and or formulating a URI that is to be transmitted to an associated mobile device . Such a URI may comprise a link addressed to specific media content selected for presentation to a game participant at a mobile device based at least in part on a game state and or location. Such a URI may be addressed for example to a process hosted on web server . Upon selection of the URI at the mobile device for example media content such as audio and or video content may be streamed to presentation layer through streaming content layer . Alternatively non streamed audio video text and or still imagery media content may be provided to presentation layer through web client layer . According to an embodiment a participant may communicate with game server using text messaging according to the aforementioned SMS protocol. For example an interactive game operator may issue an RFID device such as an RFID tag to a participant e.g. to be worn by the participant that is to use a mobile phone with text messaging capabilities. The game operator may then associate the telephone number of the mobile phone with an RFID code associated with the issued RFID in a database accessible by game server . Such a telephone number may be populated to a location server in association with the RFID code for example. Game server and or a location server detecting a presence of the RFID code at an RFID reader located at an interactive installation can determine that the mobile phone is in proximity to the interactive installation . Game server may then transmit text messages to the participant based at least in part on the location of the participant and or a game state associated with the mobile phone.

According to an embodiment associating a telephone number of a text messaging enabled mobile phone with an RFID code in a database may establish an initial game state for the mobile phone . In this initial game state for example a context specific game script hosted on game server may transmit an initial instruction to a participant as a text message. Referring to the previous example of enabling the unlocking of a door such a text message may instruct the participant to go to a locked door at a given location and reply to the message with a text message comprising the word unlock. Here such a text message to the mobile phone from server may be transmitted through a carrier network operated by a mobile communication service provider for example through a message aggregator or exposed messaging APIs directly into the service provider s messaging system. The participant may respond to the message with a text message comprising the word unlock which may be sent to game server along with the telephone number of the mobile telephone through an appropriate messaging API such as a Short Message Peer to Peer SMPP Message service for example. In a particular embodiment such an SMPP message service may be provided at least in part by SMPP server .

Continuing with the currently illustrated example a context specific game script hosted on game server may associate a phone number with the text message containing the word unlock and determine a game state associated with the mobile phone . The context specific game script may then call an associated game engine to obtain RFID codes e.g. obtained from a location server associated with mobile devices and or participants located at the locked door in question. If the RFID code associated with the mobile phone is among the RFID codes received associated with mobile devices and or participants located at the locked door in question the context specific game script may call the game engine to initiate transmission of a message to the associated interactive installation to unlock the door. Otherwise the context specific game script may call the game engine to transmit an appropriate text message to the phone number of the mobile phone . Accordingly a message unlock on a mobile device provides a presentation of media content at the mobile device while a special effect external to the mobile device unlocking the door is initiated based at least in part on a location of the mobile device and or an associated game state.

According to a particular embodiment a mobile communication service provider may transmit text messages between game server and text messaging enabled mobile phones. Such a mobile communication service provider may charge a fee to game participants for the service of forwarding such text messages between a mobile device and game server . According to an embodiment an interactive game operator may establish an arrangement with one or more such mobile communication service providers for payment to the interactive game operator for processing text messages at game server . Here for example an interactive game operator may receive a flat fee or a per message fee for text messages transmitted from or received at game server through the mobile communication service provider.

In an alternative embodiment media content may be pre stored on a memory device of a mobile device . Such pre stored media content may comprise for example encoded audio and or video signals. Upon detection of one or more particular conditions game server may transmit a message to the mobile device to initiate presentation of the media content on the mobile device. Such conditions may comprise for example detection of the mobile device at a particular location e.g. interactive station and or game state associated with the mobile device . In addition to transmitting a message to initiate presentation of the media content game server may also initiate a presentation of a special effect external to the mobile device e.g. a special effect generated by an interactive installation in proximity to the detected location of the mobile device .

A mobile device hosting game state machine may communicate with game server using a Multimedia Messaging Service MMS Wireless Application Protocol WAP and or Wireless Web protocol to provide a visually rich interactive experience. Here instead of using SMS or direct IP protocols game server may transmit MMS WAP and or Wireless Web messages to a mobile device through a Multimedia Messaging Service Center MMSC of a mobile communication service provider. Such message may include for example text URIs forms and media content e.g. still images audio video XHTML Mobile Profile MP games . Connectivity between a server and a mobile device using MMS WAP and or Wireless Web may be established using any one of several techniques.

According to an embodiment server may establish connectivity with a mobile device by transmitting a URI or list of URIs in an MMS or SMS message to the mobile device . From the mobile device a participant may select one or more of these URIs either directly or by selecting one or more XHTML MP objects associated with the URIs for example. Here such a selection of a URI may launch a web or WAP browser on the mobile device and present one or more websites providing one or more interactive interfaces associated with a game state. From these websites a participant may interact with game server by transmitting messages via HTTP and or WAP protocols for example by calling CGI scripts linked to a connectivity layer of game server . The game server may then respond back to the mobile device using SMS MMS WAP and or Wireless Web messages.

In an alternative embodiment server may establish connectivity with a mobile device by providing a web form in a body of an MMS WAP and or Wireless Web message transmitted to the mobile device . In responding to the message by submitting the form with requested information the mobile device may call a CGI script at web server to pass the requested information to game server . Game server may then process the requested information and initialize and or update an associated participant s game state. Game server may then respond to the mobile device with a subsequent MMS WAP and or Wireless Web message.

In another alternative embodiment game server may establish connectivity with a mobile device by providing one or more WAP and or HTML pages to a mobile device according to a WAP push protocol or in response to polling from a browser hosted on the mobile device . The one or more WAP and or HTML pages may provide links and forms permitting a game participant to transmit messages to and receive messages from server via a CGI for example.

A game participant and or associated mobile device may transition through a progression of game states while interactively engaging with an interactive gaming system. In a particular embodiment game states may be associated with tasks puzzles and or missions that a participant may complete solve and or accomplish etc. For example a participant at a particular game state may complete solve and or accomplish an associated task objectives puzzle and or mission as a prerequisite for transitioning to a subsequent game state. According to an embodiment a game participant may access help information for obtaining a hint and or clue with the purpose of assisting the game participant in doing what is need to transition to the next game state for example. For example help layer may receive a selection from a participant at a user interface of a mobile device to receive such a hint and or clue. Such a selection may be made for example by depressing a key on a keyboard or keypad and or making a selection from a GUI to initiate a message to game server requesting help. Game server may have knowledge of a game state of a participant and or associated mobile device . With knowledge of the particular game state and or location of the participant game server may respond with a message to presentation layer for the presentation of a hint and or clue to the participant through the mobile device in a visual and or audio format. Here a hint or clue may be tailored to a specific location of the game participant and or associated mobile device . In a particular example such a location based clue message may refer to an object and or landmark visible at an interactive installation such as a flag with a certain number of objects. Such a location based clue message may direct the game participant to count the object on the flag to answer a question and progress to a subsequent game state.

According to an embodiment game server may store multiple hints and or clues for a particular game state differing in explicitness. In addition to be based on game state such multiple hints and or clues may be based at least in part on locations of the recipient game participants. A participant may request multiple hints and or clues for assistance in attempting to progress to a subsequent game state. Here in response to successive selections for assistance through help layer while in a particular game state game server may provide increasingly explicit hints and or clues. For example after selecting help for a first clue and then struggling to transition to the next game state a participant may select help for a second more explicit clue. Eventually the participant may select help to receive a final clue telling the participant exactly how to transition to the subsequent game state.

According to an embodiment a game participant may attempt to solve multiple puzzles and or problems simultaneously. Here for example presentation layer may display information on a screen relating to a currently selected one of multiple puzzles for which a participant is currently providing inputs to solve. Here help layer may interpret a selection for help in a context sensitive manner and request help from game server for the puzzle currently selected for display on the screen.

According to an embodiment game server may keep track of how long a participant and or associated mobile device is in any one game state. Here if game server determines that a participant has been in a game state for an extended period of time game server may transmit a message to the mobile device for presentation of an audio and or visual invitation for a hint and or clue which may assist the participant in advancing to the next game state. Additionally such a hint and or clue may be based at least in part on a location of the participant and or associated mobile device . By making an appropriate selection through help layer the participant may choose to accept the clue or deny the clue. In response to the participant selecting to accept the clue help layer may respond with a message to game server which in turn provides a subsequent message to the mobile device for presentation of the hint and or clue. Here for example an invitation to a clue and or hint may comprise a URI which is selectable to obtain media content from web server such as a flash file through web client layer or streamed for media content through streaming content layer . Alternatively an initial message from game server inviting the participant to receive a clue e.g. after being in a particular game state for a duration may be transmitted with an applet. Here the participant s selection to accept the clue may launch the applet to the mobile device to present the participant with the audio and or visual clue. Selecting to refuse the clue may merely delete the applet from the mobile device .

According to an embodiment a participant through help layer may request game server for help from another participant. Here the requesting participant may specify a specific participant from whom the requesting participant desires assistance. In the absence of specifying such a participant context specific script logic hosted on game server may select one or more other participants to provide assistance. Communication between an assisting participant and assisted participant may be provided using any one of several methods. For example mobile devices of respective assisting and assisted participants may be provided with a communication channel comprising direct text messaging voice and or video transmission capabilities. Alternatively the assisting participant may perceive the particular problem facing the participant needing assistance and forward a suggestion to the mobile device of the participant needing assistance. Such a suggestion may be presented on the mobile device of the participant needing assistance as a text still image audio and or video message for example.

According to an embodiment a mobile device may host an application to emulate adjustments being made to a camera such as for example pan tilt and zoom adjustments in response to inputs being made to a user interface of the mobile device . In response to such adjustments an associated virtual camera image displayed on the mobile device may be manipulated in kind according to the emulated adjustments. Such an application may be implemented in any one of a plurality of environments such as for example XHTML WAP or a custom application interface written in a suitable programming languages such as for example Java J2ME C C C .Net technology Windows CE to name a few. Here using techniques known to those of ordinary skill in the art web server may periodically poll image data e.g. once per second or ten times per second from one or more Internet Protocol cameras not shown positioned to capture an image from a scene in real time. Web server may partition an image from the IP cameras into a matrix of tiles which are selected and or configured to provide a virtual camera image to a mobile device in response to the emulated adjustments using techniques known to those of ordinary skill in the art. Accordingly web server may provide an encoded image emulating responses to adjustments to the virtual camera when displayed on the mobile device .

In addition to being affected by emulated camera adjustments such a virtual camera image may be based at least in part upon a location associated with the mobile device receiving the virtual camera image. Here for example a virtual camera image provided to a mobile device may comprise a particular view of an object that is consistent with how the object is positioned and or oriented relative to the mobile device . In a particular embodiment such a virtual camera image may change as the mobile device changes location in a game play area.

Controller state machine may be implemented in a special effects controller included as part of an interactive installation to communicate with game server and interact with wired sensors and wireless sensors and other wired devices connected to the special effects controller through external device layer . Controller state machine may be adapted to operate according to locally stored controller state scripts based for example on particular conditions and or states of such an interactive installation . Also such an interactive installation may also be co located with one or more sensors capable of detecting signatures associated with a game participant such as for example a barcode scanner biometric sensor and or RFID energizer reader pairs e.g. RFID energizer reader pair shown in or RFID energizer reader pair shown in connected to a location server via network .

Accordingly using such sensors to detect signatures associated with a game participant may be used to detect a game participant s arrival or presence in an area about the interactive installation . In one particular embodiment such information detecting presence of a game participant may comprise information representing a signature associated with the game participant for example which may be transmitted to game server . Here game server may associate such information with an identity of the associated game participant and forward metadata to controller state machine which includes information unique to the participant e.g. associated with the game participant s identity in a database . Controller state machine may then initiate generation of a special effect at the interactive installation based at least in part on the information unique to the participant. Such information unique to the participant may be representative of the participant s age gender birth date or personal preferences just to name a few examples.

Sensors and may comprise any one of several devices capable of receiving physical inputs from a game participant such as for example push buttons pressure sensors cameras light sensors vibration sensors just to name a few. Wired sensors may be physically connected to a computing platform not shown hosting controller state machine using any one of several interfaces such as for example USB Firewire or Ethernet just to name a few. In the presently illustrated embodiment wireless sensors communicate with controller state machine through wireless network network and communication layer . In alternative embodiments sensors may communicate directly with external device layer using a wireless connection such as Bluetooth or IEEE Std. 802.11.

According to an embodiment game server may affect a game state of a mobile device in response to events at an interactive installation detected by controller state machine . In a particular example provided for the purpose of illustration an interactive installation may be positioned in a corner of a dark room. Also game server may request that a location server provide an alert when a participant approaches the interactive installation . As a game participant approaches the interactive installation while carrying a mobile device and associated RFID device for example an RFID reader may obtain an RFID code associated with the mobile device and or participant and forward an alert comprising the RFID code to the location server . Upon receipt of the RFID code context specific script logic hosted on game server may determine that a light at the interactive installation should be turned on and initiate transmission of a message to controller state machine to turn on the light. In one embodiment although claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect such context specific game logic may make such a determination based at least in part on a game state associated with the mobile device and or game participant. In response to the message initiated by the context specific game logic controller state machine may instruct external device layer to turn on the light. Accordingly game state and or location associated with a game participant and or mobile device may affect a response at an interactive installation including generation of a special effect such as turning on a light.

In another particular example again for the purpose of illustration a game state associated with a mobile device and or associated participant may change in response to the participant s interaction with an interactive installation . Here sensors and or may comprise an RFID reader and a pressure sensor placed on a target of a ball throwing game. A participant may be informed e.g. from a message displayed on a mobile device that his next assignment or task is to throw a ball at the target thereby activating the pressure sensor. In response to detecting a change in pressure at the pressure sensor controller state machine may transmit a message to game server to indicate that the target has been hit. Upon receiving an indication that the target had been hit context specific script logic hosted on game server may initiate a request to a location server for a list of participants and or mobile devices in proximity to the target. Location server may respond to such a request with an RFID code associated with the participant hitting the target with the ball. Based upon the received RFID code context specific game logic may determine whether it is appropriate for the participant associated with the RFID code to be at the ball throwing game based for example on a game state associated with the participant and or associated mobile device . If appropriate context specific game logic may initiate transmission of a message to the mobile device for presentation of a response e.g. text audio and or video and the like indicating completion of the ball throwing step and advance the mobile device and or associated participant to a subsequent game state.

According to an embodiment although claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect game server in combination with controller state machine may coordinate interactive gaming to provide an experience between and or among multiple participants. In one particular example context specific script logic hosted on game server may have the participants work cooperatively to solve a problem or complete a task mission or objective. Upon detection of multiple participants at an interactive installation and determining game states associated with the multiple participants the context specific script logic may direct the multiple participants to cooperatively interact with an interactive installation to solve a problem or complete a task mission or objective.

According to an embodiment although claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect game server may affect a game mechanic at an interactive installation upon detecting multiple participants at the interactive installation . Such a game mechanic may comprise one or more rules intended to guide an outcome of game play. In one embodiment a change in game mechanic may relate to changes in a task mission and or objective associated with one or more participants at a particular game state. In another embodiment a change in game mechanic may relate to how an interactive installation is to respond to actions of a game participant under certain conditions. In one example a particular game state of a participant may imply a game mechanic requiring the participant to start a motor located at an interactive installation . As the participant approaches the motor an RFID reader located at the motor may receive an RFID code associated with the participant. In response context specific script logic hosted on game server may initiate transmission of a message to a mobile device associated with the participant prompting the participant to provide a start motor command as an input to the mobile device e.g. depressing a key to start the motor. Upon receiving the start motor command from the mobile device the context specific game logic may initiate transmission of a message to controller state machine to start the motor.

According to a particular embodiment however context specific game logic may change this particular game mechanic in response to detection of multiple participants located at the motor having the particular game state e.g. arriving to the motor simultaneously by for example requiring action by the multiple participants to start the motor. For example upon receiving a start motor command from one such participant in the absence of a timely start motor command from at least one of the other participants context specific game logic may initiate transmission of a message to mobile devices associated with the multiple participants for presentation of an audio and or visual message your devices do not individually have sufficient power to start the motor but they may collectively have sufficient power if you provide your start motor commands simultaneously. Upon receiving such simultaneous start motor commands from multiple mobile devices the context specific game logic may initiate transmission of a message to controller state machine to start the motor.

The above example illustrates a game mechanic coordinating two or more game participants at an interactive installation as mutual allies based at least in part on locations of the one or more participants. In alternative embodiments however context specific game logic may provide a game mechanic directing such co located participants to act as opponents in affecting a game outcome. By affecting a game mechanic in such a coordinated fashion the two or more participants may advance a game state associated with at least one of the participants and or initiate presentation of one or more special effects. Here for example in response to detecting a presence of a game participant in an area while in a particular game state context specific game logic determines whether there are any additional game participants in the area in the same or similar game state. If such additional participants are in the area context specific game logic transmits a message to the multiple participants indicating that the multiple participants must act simultaneously to advance their respective game states. Context specific game logic may then wait an arbitrary duration of time to receive inputs from the multiple game participants and advance their respective game states in response.

According to an embodiment game server may be adapted to alter an interactive gaming experience in real time provided to multiple participants in an interactive gaming system according to a predetermined performance metric based at least in part on game participant specific information. Such game participant specific information may comprise for example information stored in a database obtained as part of a registration process e.g. age gender place of residence handicap status etc. In another embodiment such game participant specific information may comprise information indicative of behavior of at least one of the multiple participants. For example with multiple participants roaming among interactive installations as part of an interactive gaming experience there is a possibility of collisions when multiple participants have game states requiring the participants to perform the same actions in the same place and at the same time. It may be desirable to reduce the incidence of such collisions. Also a theme park operator offering such an interactive gaming experience to attendees may desire to affect game play in a manner that assists with managing crowds in portions of the theme park.

In one particular example a geographical area where interactive gaming is provided e.g. a theme park may be subdivided into game play areas. Such game play areas may be further subdivided into sub missions. To reduce the incidence of collisions long lines bottlenecks in game play areas etc. as a new participant commences playing context specific game logic may assign the new participant to begin his first mission and or complete his first task in a game play area currently having the fewest players. Alternatively context specific game logic may assign the new participant to begin his first mission and or complete his first task in a game play area having the greatest dispersion of participant start times and or game states. When a participant completes missions and or tasks in one game play area context specific game logic may perform additional calculations to direct the participant to another game play area where there is a low likelihood of colliding with other participants.

In alternative embodiments human technicians at terminals in communication with context specific game logic may manually assign participants to game areas and or submissions as a new participant begins or as a participant completes missions and or tasks in a game area for example. In another alternative embodiment context specific game logic may change or affect game play to prevent participants from colliding at an interactive installation . For example if two participants having the same game state are likely to collide at an interactive installation a mobile device associated with a first one of the participants may receive a message initiated from context specific game logic. The received message may present visual and or audio instructions to wait for further instructions while the second participant is permitted to complete a task and or mission without collision. Once the second participant progresses to the point of completing the task and or mission without substantial risk of collision for example context specific game logic may initiate a subsequent message to the first participant to present visual and or audio instructions to proceed to complete the task.

In one embodiment game server may dynamically alter an interactive gaming experience in real time for one or more game participants by changing an order of sub missions associated with at least one of said one or more game participants. Here such a re ordering of sub missions may reduce congestion and or the likelihood of collisions at an interactive installation . In another embodiment multiple participants may be associated into groups having an associated set of sub missions. Here game server may dynamically alter an interactive gaming experience by changing an order of sub missions associated with at least one of the groups of participants.

In other embodiments a game server may be adapted to alter an interactive gaming experience in aspects other than in reducing crowding and or the frequency of collisions. In addition or as an alternative to affecting the routing of participants through game play in real time game server may make other real time adjustments to game play to alter performance based at least in part on game participant specific information. Such other adjustments may comprise for example making certain game objects and or tasks easier or more difficult changing help menus altering paths between interactive installations to avoid collisions or attract participants to information unrelated to game play such as advertising just to name a few examples.

According to an embodiment game server may be adapted to alter an interactive gaming experience for a game participant in real time based at least in part on a handicap status associated with the game participant. For example game server may establish certain tasks missions and or objects requiring physical activity that is not feasible for a wheelchair bound participant. Such physical activity may comprise for example climbing a statue jumping and kicking objects just to name a few. Here game server may alter and or bypass such missions to accommodate such a wheelchair bound participant based at least in part on registration information stored in a database for example.

According to an embodiment game server may affect how participants are directed in real time throughout game play areas and or sub missions based at least in part on game participant specific information comprising logs of participant behavior e.g. maintained in a database . In one embodiment for example such participant behavior may comprise an order in which one or more players have attempted to solve a series of game objectives. In another embodiment such participant behavior may comprise time spent by one or more participants at game states. Here such information regarding time spent by participants at particular games states may indicate a difficulty associated with completing certain objects or tasks to progress to a subsequent game state. Similarly information regarding time spent by individuals to complete a full game may indicate a difficulty in completing the game.

According to an embodiment a mobile device associated with a participant may have camera functionality capable of capturing still and or video images. Here game server may attempt to alter in real time game play associated with one or more aspects of an interactive gaming experienced based at least in part on game participant specific information such as a number of images captured and or posted to game server by one or more game participants over a time period.

In another embodiment game server may collect game participant specific information comprising paths of game participants over a gaming area based at least in part on obtaining RFID codes associated with participants at dispersed RFID readers e.g. located at interactive installations . Here game server may attempt to alter real time game play of one or more aspects of an interactive gaming experience based at least in part on information descriptive of such paths over the gaming area.

In another embodiment game server may collect game participant specific information comprising a number of help requests at particular game states to evaluate the ease or difficulty associated with the particular game states. Also game server may track the number of times that particular participants have requested to skip over tasks and or puzzles to similarly evaluate the ease or difficulty associated with particular game states.

According to an embodiment information obtained from sensor technology alone may not be sufficient to evaluate a participant s performance in a game. A game task mission and or objective may comprise using a camera function of a mobile device to take a digital photograph of an oak tree or a task of using an audio recording function of a mobile device to record a sound etc. may be more reliably performed by a human being evaluating the photograph than by a feature recognition algorithm. By evaluating the participant s performance the human judge located at an operating terminal may transmit an acceptance message or a denial message to context specific script logic hosted on a game server. Upon receipt of an acceptance message for example the context specific logic script may advance the game participant and or a mobile device to a subsequent game state and initiate a message to the mobile device for the display of the phrase mission accomplished on a mobile device display. Upon receipt of a denial message on the other hand the context specific logic may not advance the game participant and or mobile device to a subsequent game state and initiate transmission of a message to the mobile device for the display of the phrase try again for example.

According to an embodiment game server may be adapted to alter in real time an interactive gaming experience provided to one or more participants through interactive installations dispersed geographically over a site based at least in part on one or more loading conditions. Such loading conditions may comprise for example availability of a resource such as power water or personnel. Such loading conditions may also comprise customer demand indicated by for example a number of participants waiting in a queue to enter the site for interaction with the interactive installations . In one particular embodiment game server may monitor such loading conditions to enable such alterations to a gaming experience in real time. Such alterations may for example enable the site to operate with reduced resources if the availability of such resources is constrained. Similarly such alterations may comprise adjusting a rate at which participants progress through the interactive gaming experience.

According to a particular embodiment a human judge may provide inputs to a user interface of a human mediated gameplay terminal comprising a computing platform capable of communicating with a game server using for example a message on an IP network. In one particular embodiment as illustrated in human mediated gameplay terminal and a human judge may be remotely located from the participant and or interactive installation where the participant is to perform a next task. Here such a human mediated gameplay terminal may communicate with game server through IP network . Accordingly when the participant arrives at the interactive installation and or is at a game state where a human judge is to evaluate the participant s attempt to complete a subsequent task game server having knowledge of the location of the participant and or associated mobile device may transmit a message to an application hosted on the human mediated gameplay terminal to announce an arrival of the participant. Here game server may detect a presence and or arrival of the game participant by detection of a signature associated with the game participant using any of the aforementioned techniques. In one embodiment upon detecting a game state game server may request and or set location server to provide an alert message in response to detecting that the participant is located in proximity to an interactive installation e.g. by detecting an RFID code barcode signature and or biometric signature associated with the participant at the interactive installation .

As illustrated in a human judge and human mediated gameplay terminal may be located where a human judge may directly observe a participant completing a task. Here for example such a human mediated gameplay terminal may comprise a mobile communication device not shown that is capable of communicating with game server through wireless network . An application hosted on the mobile communication device may register the device with a game server as a human mediated gameplay terminal. When a participant approaches an interactive installation a game server may detect the participant s location as being proximate to the interactive installation by communicating with a location server and notify the human mediated gameplay terminal. Here the game server may also provide additional information regarding the participant such as for example the participant s name game state and photograph for example. Upon observing a participant s attempt to complete a task the human judge may select information representing the participant from a user interface of the human mediated gameplay terminal. Upon observing an attempt to complete a particular task the human judge may then make a subsequent selection to the user interface of the human mediated gameplay terminal to send an acceptance or denial message to the game server.

Alternatively as illustrated in information collected at an interactive installation in connection with a game participant may be provided to human mediated gameplay terminal to evaluate remotely. Here the human judge may be remotely located from the interactive installation but may be able to view media content such as video audio and still imagery provided to a remote terminal via operations layer . The human judge may then evaluate information through query layer provided by the interactive installation relating to performance of the participant in attempting to complete the subsequent task and initiate action to provide an acceptance or denial message to context specific game logic hosted on the game server.

References are made herein to servers capable of providing resources over a data communication network. Such resources may comprise for example stored information and or computational resources. Accordingly a server may comprise one or more computing platforms comprising for example one or more processors coupled to a storage medium or memory by a data bus. In a particular example such a computing platform may be adapted to execute machine readable instructions stored in a memory for executing procedures to implement claimed subject matter. Likewise mobile devices identified herein may comprise computing platforms adapted to implement one or more aspects of claimed subject matter.

While there has been illustrated and described what are presently considered to be example embodiments it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various other modifications may be made and equivalents may be substituted without departing from claimed subject matter. Additionally many modifications may be made to adapt a particular situation to the teachings of claimed subject matter without departing from the central concept described herein. Therefore it is intended that claimed subject matter not be limited to the particular embodiments disclosed but that such claimed subject matter may also include all embodiments falling within the scope of the appended claims and equivalents thereof.

