---

title: Providing contextual information and enabling group communication for participants in a conversation
abstract: Configurations for providing a widget that displays participants involved in the conversation thread and provides different graphical elements (e.g., buttons) to initiate one click actions to start a group chat, create a meeting on each participant's calendar, or start a new conversation thread. In the case of the group chat, the subject technology can include the contents of the group chat session as an additional electronic message in the conversation thread. In one example, the widget is implemented as a floating toolbar that can be positioned in the user interface while in the conversation thread view.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09070117&OS=09070117&RS=09070117
owner: GOOGLE INC.
number: 09070117
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120524
---
The present application claims the benefit of priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 from U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 490 592 entitled PIVOT ON PEOPLE filed on May 26 2011 the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety for all purposes.

The Internet has grown to become an important outlet of electronic communication. Tools such as e mail instant messaging IM sometimes also referred to as chat and calendar are popular amongst Internet users and have been provided as different web services. These web services help users stay connected to each other and help them become more productive.

E mail IM and calendar web services have generally been considered to be separate and distinct. The aforementioned web services therefore are not designed to efficiently work together in an integrated manner. Moreover given that an e mail can include a group of participants e.g. an authoring participant and one or more recipient participants a user may wish to communicate with the group of participants in the e mail while using an e mail web service. However communicating between the group of participants across different web services e.g. IM and calendar within the e mail web service is typically not provided in a user friendly manner

The subject technology provides for initiating a group communication. Multiple participants included in an electronic message provided in an electronic messaging application are determined. The subject technology provides for display a representation of each of the determined multiple participants in a widget included in the electronic messaging application. In the widget user input is received to activate a group web service different from the electronic messaging application for the multiple participants of the electronic message. The subject technology activates the different group web service in response to the received user input in the widget in which the activated different group web service initiates a communication thread in the different group web service including at least a subset of the multiple participants of the electronic message.

The subject technology further provides contextual information for multiple participants of an electronic message. Multiple participants included in an electronic message provided in an electronic messaging application are determined. The subject technology obtains contextual information from one or more data sources for each participant in which the one or more data sources respectively correspond to an external web service. A representation of each of the determined multiple participants and the determined contextual information are provided for display in a widget included in the electronic messaging application.

Yet another aspect of the subject technology provides a system for providing contextual information for multiple participants of a conversation thread. The system includes one or more computing devices in which the one or more computing devices include memory one or more processors and one or more modules stored in memory and configured for execution by the one or more processors. The one or more modules include an electronic messaging module configured to receive one or more electronic messages in a conversation thread between multiple participants. The one or more modules further include a group messaging module configured to activate one of different web services between the multiple participants. Additionally the one or more modules include a graphical user interface GUI display module configured to in a conversation thread view of the conversation thread provide for display a representation of the conversation thread in which the representation includes separate display regions.

The subject technology further provides for receiving one or more electronic messages in a conversation thread between multiple participants. In a conversation thread view of the conversation thread the subject technology provides for display a representation of the conversation thread in which the representation includes separate display regions. The separate display regions include one or more electronic message regions respectively corresponding to each of the electronic messages in the conversation thread a conversation participants region including different graphical elements representing the multiple participants of the conversation thread and a group web service region including one or more graphical elements respectively representing one or more different group web services. The subject technology receives user input for selecting a participant among the multiple participants of the conversation thread. In response to the received user input different contextual data associated with the selected participant is received. Further the subject technology provides for display the different contextual data associated with the selected participant.

It is understood that other configurations of the subject technology will become readily apparent to those skilled in the art from the following detailed description wherein various configurations of the subject technology are shown and described by way of illustration. As will be realized the subject technology is capable of other and different configurations and its several details are capable of modification in various other respects all without departing from the scope of the subject technology. Accordingly the drawings and detailed description are to be regarded as illustrative in nature and not as restrictive.

The detailed description set forth below is intended as a description of various configurations of the subject technology and is not intended to represent the only configurations in which the subject technology may be practiced. The appended drawings are incorporated herein and constitute a part of the detailed description. The detailed description includes specific details for the purpose of providing a thorough understanding of the subject technology. However it will be clear and apparent that the subject technology is not limited to the specific details set forth herein and may be practiced without these specific details. In some instances structures and components are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid obscuring the concepts of the subject technology.

An e mail application can provide a web based interface to enable a user to interact with the application. In some configurations the e mail application can include other communication functionality such instant messaging IM short message service SMS and or video conferencing etc. The e mail application can organize electronic messages into one or more different conversation threads in which each conversation thread can include one or more different electronic messages e.g. an initial message and subsequent reply messages between one or more participants. As used herein electronic messages can include but are not limited to e mails SMS instant messages text messages etc. Other types of electronic messages can be provided and still be within the scope of the subject technology.

An e mail application in one example provides a web based interface to enable a user to interact with the application and include instant messaging IM functionality. The e mail application can organize electronic messages into one or more different conversation threads in which each conversation thread can include one or more different electronic messages e.g. an initial message and subsequent reply messages between one or more participants. In one example a user can initiate a new conversation thread by composing a new e mail with each user s e mail address in an address field via the application s web based interface e.g. within one or more different text box graphical elements . Further the user can utilize the IM functionality of the application to initiate a chat session with another user.

From a user experience viewpoint initiating a chat session among multiple participants e.g. an author and one or more recipients of the e mail can be a cumbersome process requiring several interactions from the user. For example the user can be required to manually add each desired participant in the chat session. Similarly initiating other group communications such as creating a group calendar appointment e.g. by selecting a menu item to launch a calendar application or creating a new conversation thread with multiple participants requires the user to manually add each participant or manually retrieve the participant s contact information e.g. from a contacts list for inclusion in the group communication. Therefore communication with different groups of users within the e mail application is not easily provided by the given functionality in the application.

To address the above issues the subject technology in one example provides a widget that is shown while viewing a conversation thread in the e mail application. As used herein the term widget includes its plain and ordinary meaning including but not limited to a lightweight application e.g. lightweight in comparison to a full application suite or software package providing a graphical user interface GUI that includes one or more graphical elements used to provide a specific application or functionality. Although the subject technology is described with reference to a widget it should be noted that the subject technology can be used in conjunction with other types of applications.

The widget displays the participants involved in the conversation thread and provides different graphical elements e.g. buttons to initiate one click actions to start a group chat create a meeting on each participant s calendar or start a new conversation thread. In the case of the group chat the subject technology can include the contents of the group chat session as an additional electronic message in the conversation thread. In one example the widget is implemented as a floating toolbar that can be positioned in the user interface while in the conversation thread view.

Additionally the subject technology provides a single person view for a selected participant e.g. as selected from the widget when each participant is listed in the widget from the conversation thread. By way of example the single person view displays the participant s name contact details and picture such a profile photo. Additionally the single person view allows the user to initiate chat call calendar and mail actions with the participant. Depending on the availability of each of the following data the single person view also provides data on recent e mail communications between the participant and the user shared documents and the participant s calendar availability. In one example the single person view also includes the participant s data from an online social networking service s if available such as recent status updates or posts.

The subject technology provides a widget that displays contextual information about the conversation s participants or a selected participant of the conversation thread. As used herein the term widget refers to a lightweight application e.g. lightweight in comparison to a full application suite or software package providing a GUI that includes one or more graphical elements used to provide a specific application or functionality. Although the subject technology is described with reference to a widget it should be noted that the subject technology can be used in conjunction with other types of applications.

The following description describes a widget that provides relevant contextual information for the participants in a conversation thread. The widget can aggregate content from different groups of people e.g. friends family and colleagues that is available to the user but may be difficult to find.

The GUI can include different sets of graphical elements. A graphical element can include but is not limited to a button check box radio button slider list box drop down list menu combo box icon text box scroll bar etc.

As shown in the widget includes different contextual information for each participant in the conversation thread. In the example of the conversation thread includes four different participants. The widget includes a set of avatars and that are respective graphical representations e.g. thumbnail images profile photos etc. of each participant. To populate the widget with relevant contextual information for each participant the widget can aggregate information from different data sources. By way of example the widget can request and receive information from an e mail web service a social networking web service a document web service and or a calendar web service. As used herein the phrase web service includes its plain and ordinary meaning including but not limited to an online application providing one or more types of functionality via receiving requests over a network such as the Internet.

In different contextual information and includes a respective participant s name and job title. However one of ordinary skill in the art would appreciate that any type of contextual information could by provided by the widget and still be within the scope of the subject technology.

The widget further includes a set of buttons and for initiating different group web services for the participants in the conversation thread. As shown button corresponds to initiating a group chat web service button corresponds to initiating a group e mail web service and button corresponds with initiating a group calendar web service. Initiating a group web service for the participants in the conversation thread is described in more detail below. As used herein the phrase group web service includes its plain and ordinary meaning including but not limited to an online application providing one or more types of functionality for a group of users via receiving requests over a network such as the Internet.

As shown in the GUI includes the widget in a group view that shows the graphical representations of the participants in the conversation thread along with contextual information e.g. name and job title for each participant. In one example the widget receives input e.g. click input keyboard shortcut touch input voice input etc. to select a button to initiate a group chat web service. After the button is selected the widget initiates a group chat web service that displays the chat GUI containing each participant in the conversation thread. Alternatively a user can select a subset of the participants in the conservation thread and then select the button for including the subset of participants in the group chat web service. In this manner the widget enables participants of the conversation thread to communicate via a group web service separately from the conversation thread.

As shown the chat GUI includes a list of chat participants and corresponding to each participant in the conversation thread. Each participant can then participate in the group chat via the GUI . In some configurations the contents of the group chat can be appended as a new electronic message e.g. e mail in the conversation thread by selecting a menu item .

In some instances the subject technology provides contextual information about a selected participant in the conversation thread. More specifically the herein described widget displays one or more types of contextual information associated with the selected participant depending on the availability of the contextual information. By way of example recent emails online social network posts such as recent status updates shared documents or calendar events associated with the selected participant can be displayed next to the conversation thread.

As shown in the widget includes contextual information that shows a participant s profile data including a photo name and job title. The contextual information includes a recent social networking update post. The contextual information includes a recent set of e mail messages from the participant. The contextual information includes a calendar appointment for the participant. Lastly the contextual information includes a set of recent documents from the participant. In this manner the widget provides different contextual information for a selected participant in a single user view. Other contextual information can be provided and still be within the scope of the subject technology. In one example the widget can revert to a group view to display the participants of the conversation thread e.g. as shown in by selecting a menu item .

As illustrated in the GUI includes a conversation thread view of a conversation including one or more different e mails and or electronic messages . Each e mail includes a message from a respective participant to the other participants of the conversation. The GUI includes a widget which provides for display a representation of multiple participants in a conversation thread similar to the representation of multiple participants shown in .

The process at determines multiple participants included in an electronic message provided in an electronic messaging application. In an example in which the electronic message is an e mail message the multiple participants are determined based on respective e mail addresses of the multiple participants.

The process at provides for display a representation of each of the determined multiple participants in a widget included in the electronic messaging application. In one example the displayed multiple participants can be displayed in a similar manner as in the example GUIs of . As mentioned before the widget is a lightweight application for extending the functionality of the electronic messaging application. In one example the widget can be understood as a sub application included or hosted in the electronic messaging application.

The process at receives in the widget user input to activate a group web service different from the electronic messaging application for the multiple participants of the electronic message. In some configurations the user input can be a single click input including one from a mouse click input touch input keyboard input or voice input etc. The different group web services include services such as instant messaging video conferencing and calendar in one example. For instance a group web service includes one of a group chat session a group videoconference and a group calendar appointment in some examples. Other types of group web services can be provided and still be within the scope of the subject technology

The process at activates the different group web service in response to the received user input in the widget. In one example the activated different group web service initiates a communication thread in the different group web service including at least a subset of the multiple participants of the electronic message. Upon being activated an active session is created for the group web service and different interactions and activity from each of the participants can occur or be received. In an example of a group chat session the participants can send one or more chat messages to the other participants of the group chat session.

The process at determines multiple participants included in an electronic message provided in an electronic messaging application. In an example in which the electronic message is an e mail message the multiple participants are determined based on respective e mail addresses of the multiple participants.

The process at obtains contextual information from one or more data sources for each participant. In one example the one or more data sources respectively correspond to an external web service. A respective participant of the electronic message is a user of the external web service. For instance the external web service can correspond to a service such as a calendar service online social networking service or document sharing service that is separate from the application or service providing the electronic message. In this manner the process obtains contextual information including calendar appointments social networking status updates or documents for each of the participants of the electronic message from the one or more data sources. Further the contextual information includes profile data of at least one of the multiple participants. The profile data includes a user name contact data or an image that can based on an online social networking profile of a respective participant. Additionally other types of external web services can be included and still be within the scope of the subject technology.

The process at provides for display a representation of each of the determined multiple participants and the determined contextual information in a widget included in the electronic messaging application. Some examples of displaying the multiple participants and contextual information in the widget are shown in as described above.

The process at receives one or more electronic messages in the conversation thread between the multiple participants. The multiple participants are respective recipients of the one or more electronic messages. In a conversation thread view of the conversation thread the process at provides for display a representation of the conversation thread e.g. as illustrated in the example shown in . In some configurations the representation includes separate display regions. By way of example the separate display regions include one or more electronic message regions respectively corresponding to each of the electronic messages in the conversation thread a conversation participants region including different graphical elements representing the multiple participants of the conversation thread and a group web service region including one or more graphical elements respectively representing one or more different group web services. Other display regions can be provided and still be within the scope of the subject technology.

The process at receives a request to activate one of the different group web services for the multiple participants in the conversation thread. In some configurations the request is received as user input in a conversation thread view of the conversation thread. The user input can be a single click input including one from a mouse click input touch input keyboard input or voice input etc. The different group web services include services such as instant messaging video conferencing e mail and calendar in one example. For instance a group web service includes one of a group chat session a group conversation thread and a group calendar appointment in one example. Other types of group web services can be provided and still be within the scope of the subject technology.

The process at activates in response to the received request the one of the different group web services. Once activated an active session for the group web service is ongoing and different interactions and activity from each of the participants can occur or be received. In an example of a group chat session the participants can send one or more chat messages to the other participants of the group chat session. The process at stores a historical record of activity during an active session of the activated one of the different group web services. The historical record can be stored on a periodic basis e.g. after a predetermined period of time has elapsed or after the session for the group web service has ended e.g. when the participants exit the group web service . Further the process at provides for display the historical record as an additional electronic message in the conversation thread between the multiple participants.

The process at receives user input for selecting a participant among the multiple participants of the conversation thread. In one example the user input can be received responsive to a user selecting one of the multiple participants of the conversation thread. For instance the user can select one of the participants shown in the GUI of .

Responsive to the received input the process then receives different contextual data associated with the selected participant. By way of example the process can receive contextual data from one or more data sources respectively corresponding to one or more services such as e mail calendar social networking document sharing etc. Other types of data sources can be included and still be within the scope of the subject technology. In one example each data source is accessed over a network and provided by one or more computing devices or systems such as a server or a cluster of servers. The process receives the contextual data in response to pulling e.g. client requests the data or aggregating the data from the aforementioned data sources in some configurations.

The process at receives in response to the received user input profile data of the selected participant. The profile data includes a name contact data and an image in some configurations. The process at receives in response to the received user input one or more e mail messages and or e mail attachments from the selected participant. The received e mail messages and or e mail attachments are aggregated e mail messages or aggregated e mail attachments that have been previously received by an electronic messaging application in some configurations.

The process at receives in response to the received user input one or more calendar appointments of the selected participant. The received calendar appointments are pulled from a calendar web service in one example.

The process at receives in response to the received user input one or more social networking status updates of the selected participant. The received social networking status updates are pulled from a social networking web service in one example.

The process at receives in response to the received user input one or more documents of the selected participant. The received documents are pulled from a document sharing web service in one example.

Further the process at provides for display each of the received contextual data associated with the selected participant. In particular the received contextual data includes but is not limited to the aforementioned profile data e mail messages e mail attachments calendar appointments social networking status updates and documents.

The system can include memory one or more processors and one or more modules stored in memory and configured for execution by the one or more processors. As shown in the system includes several modules for providing different functionality. The system is configured to include an electronic messaging module configured to receive one or more electronic messages in a conversation thread between multiple participants a group messaging module configured to activate one of different web services between the multiple participants a graphical user interface GUI display module configured to in a conversation thread view of the conversation thread provide for display a representation of the conversation thread in which the representation includes separate display regions and a contextual data module configured to receive user input for selecting a participant among the multiple participants of the conversation thread and receive in response to the received user input different contextual data associated with the selected participant. The different contextual data includes at least one of profile data an e mail message a document a calendar appointment and a social networking status update in one example.

In some configurations the aforementioned separate display regions include one or more electronic message regions respectively corresponding to each of the electronic messages in the conversation thread a conversation participants region including different graphical elements representing the multiple participants of the conversation thread and a group web service region including one or more graphical elements respectively representing one or more different group web services.

The GUI display module is further configured to provide for display the received contextual data associated with the selected participant. The group messaging module is further configured to store a historical record of activity during an active session of the activated one of the different group web services. Additionally the GUI display module is configured to provide for display the historical record as an additional electronic message in the conversation thread between the multiple participants.

As further shown in each of the aforementioned modules can be configured to communicate between each other. For instance different data messages API calls and returns can be passed between the different modules in the system .

The system can communicate over a network with a client . The client can each be configured to communicate with the aforementioned modules of the system . For instance the system can transmit a request for interacting e.g. for a group web service with the client over the network to the client . As further shown in the system can communicate over the network with other client s in a similar manner.

Many of the above described features and applications are implemented as software processes that are specified as a set of instructions recorded on a machine readable storage medium also referred to as computer readable medium . When these instructions are executed by one or more processing unit s e.g. one or more processors cores of processors or other processing units they cause the processing unit s to perform the actions indicated in the instructions. Examples of machine readable media include but are not limited to CD ROMs flash drives RAM chips hard drives EPROMs etc. The machine readable media does not include carrier waves and electronic signals passing wirelessly or over wired connections.

In this specification the term software is meant to include firmware residing in read only memory and or applications stored in magnetic storage which can be read into memory for processing by a processor. Also in some implementations multiple software components can be implemented as sub parts of a larger program while remaining distinct software components. In some implementations multiple software subject components can also be implemented as separate programs. Finally any combination of separate programs that together implement a software component s described here is within the scope of the subject technology. In some implementations the software programs when installed to operate on one or more systems define one or more specific machine implementations that execute and perform the operations of the software programs.

A computer program also known as a program software software application script or code can be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages declarative or procedural languages and it can be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a module component subroutine object or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment. A computer program may but need not correspond to a file in a file system. A program can be stored in a portion of a file that holds other programs or data e.g. one or more scripts stored in a markup language document in a single file dedicated to the program in question or in multiple coordinated files e.g. files that store one or more modules sub programs or portions of code . A computer program can be deployed to be executed on one computer or on multiple computers that are located at one site or distributed across multiple sites and interconnected by a communication network.

Some configurations are implemented as software processes that include one or more application programming interfaces APIs in an environment with calling program code interacting with other program code being called through the one or more interfaces. Various function calls messages or other types of invocations which can include various kinds of parameters can be transferred via the APIs between the calling program and the code being called. In addition an API can provide the calling program code the ability to use data types or classes defined in the API and implemented in the called program code.

The following description describes an example system in which aspects of the subject technology can be implemented.

The bus collectively represents all system peripheral and chipset buses that communicatively connect the numerous internal devices of the system . For instance the bus communicatively connects the processing unit s with the read only memory the system memory and the storage device .

From these various memory units the processing unit s retrieves instructions to execute and data to process in order to execute the processes of the subject technology. The processing unit s can be a single processor or a multi core processor in different implementations.

The read only memory ROM stores static data and instructions that are needed by the processing unit s and other modules of the system . The storage device on the other hand is a read and write memory device. This device is a non volatile memory unit that stores instructions and data even when the system is off. Some implementations of the subject technology use a mass storage device such as a magnetic or optical disk and its corresponding disk drive as the storage device .

Other implementations use a removable storage device such as a flash drive a floppy disk and its corresponding disk drive as the storage device . Like the storage device the system memory is a read and write memory device. However unlike storage device the system memory is a volatile read and write memory such a random access memory. The system memory stores some of the instructions and data that the processor needs at runtime. In some implementations the subject technology s processes are stored in the system memory the storage device and or the read only memory . For example the various memory units include instructions for processing multimedia items in accordance with some implementations. From these various memory units the processing unit s retrieves instructions to execute and data to process in order to execute the processes of some implementations.

The bus also connects to the optional input and output interfaces and . The optional input interface enables the user to communicate information and select commands to the system. The optional input interface can interface with alphanumeric keyboards and pointing devices also called cursor control devices . The optional output interface can provide display images generated by the system . The optional output interface can interface with printers and display devices such as cathode ray tubes CRT or liquid crystal displays LCD . Some implementations can interface with devices such as a touchscreen that functions as both input and output devices.

Finally as shown in bus also couples system to a network interface through a network adapter not shown . In this manner the computer can be a part of a network of computers such as a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN or an Intranet or an interconnected network of networks such as the Internet. Any or all components of system can be used in conjunction with the subject technology.

These functions described above can be implemented in digital electronic circuitry in computer software firmware or hardware. The techniques can be implemented using one or more computer program products. Programmable processors and computers can be included in or packaged as mobile devices. The processes and logic flows can be performed by one or more programmable processors and by one or more programmable logic circuitry. General and special purpose computing devices and storage devices can be interconnected through communication networks.

Some implementations include electronic components such as microprocessors storage and memory that store computer program instructions in a machine readable or computer readable medium alternatively referred to as computer readable storage media machine readable media or machine readable storage media . Some examples of such computer readable media include RAM ROM read only compact discs CD ROM recordable compact discs CD R rewritable compact discs CD RW read only digital versatile discs e.g. DVD ROM dual layer DVD ROM a variety of recordable rewritable DVDs e.g. DVD RAM DVD RW DVD RW etc. flash memory e.g. SD cards mini SD cards micro SD cards etc. magnetic and or solid state hard drives read only and recordable Blu Ray discs ultra density optical discs any other optical or magnetic media and floppy disks. The computer readable media can store a computer program that is executable by at least one processing unit and includes sets of instructions for performing various operations. Examples of computer programs or computer code include machine code such as is produced by a compiler and files including higher level code that are executed by a computer an electronic component or a microprocessor using an interpreter.

While the above discussion primarily refers to microprocessor or multi core processors that execute software some implementations are performed by one or more integrated circuits such as application specific integrated circuits ASICs or field programmable gate arrays FPGAs . In some implementations such integrated circuits execute instructions that are stored on the circuit itself.

As used in this specification and any claims of this application the terms computer server processor and memory all refer to electronic or other technological devices. These terms exclude people or groups of people. For the purposes of the specification the terms display or displaying means displaying on an electronic device. As used in this specification and any claims of this application the terms computer readable medium and computer readable media are entirely restricted to tangible physical objects that store information in a form that is readable by a computer. These terms exclude any wireless signals wired download signals and any other ephemeral signals.

To provide for interaction with a user implementations of the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented on a computer having a display device e.g. a CRT cathode ray tube or LCD liquid crystal display monitor for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device e.g. a mouse or a trackball by which the user can provide input to the computer. Other kinds of devices can be used to provide for interaction with a user as well for example feedback provided to the user can be any form of sensory feedback e.g. visual feedback auditory feedback or tactile feedback and input from the user can be received in any form including acoustic speech or tactile input. In addition a computer can interact with a user by sending documents to and receiving documents from a device that is used by the user for example by sending web pages to a web browser on a user s client device in response to requests received from the web browser.

Configurations of the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented in a computing system that includes a back end component e.g. as a data server or that includes a middleware component e.g. an application server or that includes a front end component e.g. a client computer having a graphical user interface or a Web browser through which a user can interact with an implementation of the subject matter described in this specification or any combination of one or more such back end middleware or front end components. The components of the system can be interconnected by any form or medium of digital data communication e.g. a communication network. Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN an inter network e.g. the Internet and peer to peer networks e.g. ad hoc peer to peer networks .

The computing system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other. In some configurations a server transmits data e.g. an HTML page to a client device e.g. for purposes of displaying data to and receiving user input from a user interacting with the client device . Data generated at the client device e.g. a result of the user interaction can be received from the client device at the server.

It is understood that any specific order or hierarchy of steps in the processes disclosed is an illustration of example approaches. Based upon design preferences it is understood that the specific order or hierarchy of steps in the processes can be rearranged or that all illustrated steps be performed. Some of the steps can be performed simultaneously. For example in certain circumstances multitasking and parallel processing can be advantageous. Moreover the separation of various system components in the configurations described above should not be understood as requiring such separation in all configurations and it should be understood that the described program components and systems can generally be integrated together in a single software product or packaged into multiple software products.

The previous description is provided to enable any person skilled in the art to practice the various aspects described herein. Various modifications to these aspects will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art and the generic principles defined herein can be applied to other aspects. Thus the claims are not intended to be limited to the aspects shown herein but is to be accorded the full scope consistent with the language claims wherein reference to an element in the singular is not intended to mean one and only one unless specifically so stated but rather one or more. Unless specifically stated otherwise the term some refers to one or more. Pronouns in the masculine e.g. his include the feminine and neuter gender e.g. her and its and vice versa. Headings and subheadings if any are used for convenience only and do not limit the subject technology.

A phrase such as an aspect does not imply that such aspect is essential to the subject technology or that such aspect applies to all configurations of the subject technology. A disclosure relating to an aspect can apply to all configurations or one or more configurations. A phrase such as an aspect can refer to one or more aspects and vice versa. A phrase such as a configuration does not imply that such configuration is essential to the subject technology or that such configuration applies to all configurations of the subject technology. A disclosure relating to a configuration can apply to all configurations or one or more configurations. A phrase such as a configuration can refer to one or more configurations and vice versa.

The word example is used herein to mean serving as an example or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as example is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other aspects or designs.

All structural and functional equivalents to the elements of the various aspects described throughout this disclosure that are known or later come to be known to those of ordinary skill in the art are expressly incorporated herein by reference and are intended to be encompassed by the claims.

