---

title: Replication timing profiles for leukemia and other cancers
abstract: Described is a method for determining that a population of cells are a specific type of leukemic cell based on the replication timing fingerprint for the population of cells.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08725423&OS=08725423&RS=08725423
owner: Florida State University Research Foundation
number: 08725423
owner_city: Tallahassee
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121226
---
The United States Government may have rights in this invention pursuant to National Institutes of Health NIH Grant No. R21CA161666 01A1.

This application claims benefit of priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 580 401 to Gilbert et al. entitled REPLICATION TIMING PROFILES FOR LEUKEMIA AND OTHER CANCERS filed Dec. 27 2011 which is incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Current biomarkers for cancer involve various types of test such as tests for chromosome abnomalities karyotype abnormalities such as chromosome number differences or translocations and gene expression tests. But these biomarkers are only partially effective at diagnosis.

According to a first broad aspect the present invention provides a method comprising the following steps a determining that a population of cells are a specific type of leukemic cell based on the replication timing fingerprint for the population of cells and b displaying to a user on a visual display device the type of leukemia determined step a wherein step a is conducted by a computer.

Where the definition of terms departs from the commonly used meaning of the term applicant intends to utilize the definitions provided below unless specifically indicated.

For purposes of the present invention it should be noted that the singular forms a an and the include reference to the plural unless the context as herein presented clearly indicates otherwise.

For purposes of the present invention a value or property is based on or derived from a particular value property the satisfaction of a condition or other factor if that value is derived by performing a mathematical calculation or logical decision using that value property condition or other factor.

For purposes of the present invention the term array and the term microarray when used to determine the replication timing profile for a population of cells refer interchangeably to a field or array of a multitude of spots corresponding to nucleic acid probes or oligonucleotides for all or at least a portion of the genome of a species placed on a support or substrate to allow for simultaneous detection and or quantification of nucleic acid molecules present in one or more sample s by hybridization as commonly understood in the art. For purposes of the present invention the term array generally refers to a genomic array such as a comparative genomic hybridization CGH array a tiling array etc.

For purposes of the present invention the term cell type refers to the kind identity and or classification of cells according to any and all criteria such as their tissue and species of origin their differentiation state whether or not and in what manner they are normal or diseased etc. For example the term cell type may refer separately and specifically to any specific kind of cell found in nature such as an embryonic stem cell a neural precursor cell a myoblast a mesodermal cell etc. Such a list of possible cell types is meant herein to be unlimited.

For purposes of the present invention the term computer refers to any type of computer or other device that implements software including an individual computer such as a personal computer laptop computer tablet computer mainframe computer mini computer etc. A computer also refers to electronic devices such as a smartphone an eBook reader a cell phone a television a handheld electronic game console a video game console a compressed audio or video player such as an MP3 player a Blu ray player a DVD player a microwave oven etc. In addition the term computer refers to any type of network of computers such as a network of computers in a business a computer bank the Cloud the Internet etc. A computer may include a storage device memory or other hardware and or software for loading computer programs or other instructions into the computer. A computer may include a communication unit. The communication unit may allow the computer to connect to other databases and the Internet through an I O interface. The communication unit may allow the transfer to as well as reception of data from other databases. The communication unit may include a modem an Ethernet card or any similar device that enables the computer system to connect to databases and networks such as LAN MAN WAN and the Internet. A computer may facilitate inputs from a user through an input device accessible to the system through an I O interface. A computer may execute a set of instructions that are stored in one or more storage devices in order to process input data. The storage devices may also hold data or other information as desired. The storage element may be in the form of an information source or a physical memory element present in the processing machine. The set of instructions may include various commands that instruct the processing machine to perform specific tasks such as the steps that constitute the method of the present technique. The set of instructions may be in the form of a software program. Further the software may be in the form of a collection of separate programs a program module with a larger program or a portion of a program module as in the present technique. The software may also include modular programming in the form of object oriented programming. The processing of input data by the processing machine may be in response to user commands results of previous processing or a request made by another processing machine. In one embodiment of the present invention a computer may be used to implement steps of the method of the present invention and steps of the various protocols described below.

For purposes of the present invention the term differential the term replication timing profile differential and the term replication timing differential refer interchangeably to differences in replication timing values between any combination of 1 one or more replication timing profile s 2 a replication timing fingerprint and or 3 one or more informative segment s of a replication timing fingerprint. For example the replication timing differential may refer to differences in replication timing ratios such as differences in replication timing ratios expressed on a logarithmic scale between two or more populations of cells or cell types at a given genomic or chromosomal locus or along the length of at least a segment of one or more chromosome s within a genome etc.

For purposes of the present invention the term epigenetic signature and the term epigenetic signatures broadly refer to any manifestation or phenotype of cells of a particular cell type that is believed to derive from the chromatin structure of such cells.

For purposes of the present invention the term epigenetics the term epigenetic markers and the term epigenetic parameters generally refer to chemical modifications of DNA histones or other chromatin associated molecules that impart changes in gene expression such as methylation acetylation ubiquitylation etc. However the terms epigenetics epigenetic markers and epigenetic parameters may refer more generally to any changes in chromatin structure that affect gene expression apart from DNA sequence. For example the terms epigenetics epigenetic markers and epigenetic parameters may refer to incorporation of histone variants or chromosomal remodeling by enzymes.

For purposes of the present invention the term genome wide and the term whole genome may refer interchangeably to the entire genome of a cell or population of cells. Alternatively the terms genome wide or whole genome may refer to most or nearly all of the genome. For example the terms genome wide or whole genome may exclude a few portions of the genome that are difficult to sequence do not differ among cells or cell types are not represented on a whole genome array or raise some other issue or difficulty that prompts exclusion of such portions of the genome.

For purposes of the present invention the term genomic array is an array having probes and or oligonucleotides corresponding to both coding and non coding intergenic sequences for at least a portion of a genome and may include the whole genome of an organism. For example a genomic array may have probes and or oligonucleotides for only those portions of a genome of an organism that correspond to replication timing fingerprint s or informative segments of fingerprint s . The term genomic array may also refer to a set of nucleic acid probes or oligonucleotides representing sequences that are about evenly spaced along the length of each chromosome or chromosomal segment. However even spacing of probes may be dispensable with very high density genomic arrays i.e. genomic arrays having an average probe spacing of much less than about 6 kb .

For purposes of the present invention the term hardware and or software refers to a device that may be implemented by digital software digital hardware or a combination of both digital hardware and digital software.

For purposes of the present invention the term high resolution array and the term high resolution genomic array generally refers a genomic array having sufficient resolution to provide enough information to generate a smooth replication timing profile to reliably determine the exact positions lengths boundaries etc. of the replication timing domains. The term high resolution array or high resolution genomic array may correspond to the whole genome or a substantial portion of a genome of a particular cell or population of cells. The term high resolution array or high resolution genomic array may also refer to a genomic array having an average probe spacing of about 6 kilobases kb or less.

For purposes of the present invention the term informative segment and the term informative segments refer to one or more contiguous portions or segments of one or more chromosome s within a genome that are used to define a replication timing fingerprint. In other words the terms informative segment and informative segments may refer to one or more contiguous portions or segments of one or more chromosome s within a genome that differ between two or more different cell types. For example the terms informative segment or informative segments may refer to one or more regions or segments of a genome for a population of cells of a particular cell type having the following characteristics 1 the region covers at least about 50 kilobases kb of genomic DNA and 2 the region has at least about a 0.5 replication timing ratio differential across such length compared to all other cell types or at least compared to all other relevant cell types.

For purposes of the present invention the term machine readable medium refers to any mechanism that stores information in a form accessible by a machine such as a computer network device personal digital assistant manufacturing tool any device with a set of one or more processors etc. For example a machine readable medium may be a recordable non recordable medium e.g. a read only memory ROM a random access memory RAM a magnetic disk storage medium an optical storage medium a flash memory device etc. a bar code an RFID tag etc.

For purposes of the present invention the term mammalian cells refers to a population of cells that are or were originally derived from a mammalian organism. The term mammalian cells may include primary cells derived from a mammalian species or a cell line originally derived from a mammalian species. The term mammalian cells may refer to a homogeneous population of cells from a mammalian organism.

For purposes of the present invention the term population of cells refers to a homogeneous group or population of cells. The term population of cells may also include a single cell in culture having the potential to grow and divide into a plurality of homogeneous cells under appropriate culturing conditions.

For purposes of the present invention the term primary cell refers to a cell or cells isolated from a tissue of an organism and placed in culture. The primary cell may be derived from any tissue of any organism such as a mammalian organism. The term primary cell generally includes any cell or cells that may be isolated from a tissue of an organism to create a reasonably homogeneous population of cells such as by first creating single cell suspensions.

For purposes of the present invention the term replication timing ratio refers to a ratio value for the timing of replication at a particular locus of a chromosome within the genome of a cell. For example the replication timing ratio may be a ratio of the extent of replication in early S phase cells divided by the extent of replication in late S phase cells or vice versa at a given locus. Alternatively the replication timing ratio may be expressed on a logarithmic scale such as log 2 early late or log 2 late early . Alternatively for example the term replication timing ratio may refer to the ratio of the extent of replicated DNA in S phase cells to the amount of DNA in G1 phase cells. The extent of replication or the amount of DNA may be measured for example by the fluorescence intensity of an attached label.

For purposes of the present invention the term replication timing domain refers to a contiguous region of a chromosome of a cell or population of cells having roughly the same i.e. early vs. late replication timing such as a contiguous region of a chromosome of a cell or population of cells having roughly the same replication timing ratio value.

For purposes of the present invention the term replication timing profile refers to a series of values for replication timing e.g. early versus late S phase replication timing along the length of at least a segment of one or more chromosome s within a genome. For example the replication timing profile may be expressed as a series of replication timing ratio values such as early late S phase replication or late early S phase replication along the length of at least a segment of one or more chromosome s which may further be expressed on a logarithmic scale. Alternatively the replication timing profile may refer to a ratio of the amounts of S phase DNA to G1 phase DNA from a population of asynchronously dividing cells along the length of at least a segment of one or more chromosome s which further may be expressed on a logarithmic scale with a higher ratio indicating earlier replication and a lower ratio indicating later replication. The term replication timing profile may include a replication timing fingerprint for a particular cell type or a set of replication timing profiles for informative segments of a replication timing fingerprint for a particular cell type. The term replication timing profile further may include a replication timing profile differential between any combination of 1 one or more replication timing profile s 2 a replication timing fingerprint and or 3 one or more informative segment s of a replication timing fingerprint s . The replication timing profile may be determined for example by quantifying an amount of replicated DNA in a sample from a population of cells by measuring fluorescently labeled DNA by sequencing etc.

For purposes of the present invention the term replication timing test profile refers to the replication timing profile for a population of cells of interest having an unknown or uncertain identity to the user of the embodiments of the methods of the present invention.

For purposes of the present invention the term replication timing reference profile refers to a replication timing profile used as a basis for comparison to identify and or distinguish a population of cells based on the population s replication timing test profile. Such replication timing reference profile may include a replication timing profile for a population of cells an average replication timing profile for a group of related or identical cells or from replicate experiments a replication timing fingerprint one or more informative segment s of a replication timing fingerprint etc. or any combination thereof Such a replication timing reference profile may be simultaneously or previously determined may be contained in a database etc.

For purposes of the present invention the term replication timing fingerprint refers to one or more segments or portions of a replication timing profile for a particular type of cell s that differs from all other cell types or all other relevant cell types which may be used to identify distinguish etc. cells of that type. The term replication timing fingerprint may refer to the collection of all informative segments of a genome of cells of a particular cell type defined as segments that display a replication timing profile that differs from the replication timing profiles of one or more other cell types. The term replication timing fingerprint may further include one or more informative segment s that have replication timing profiles that are shared by two or more cell types i.e. the replication timing profiles are identical or similar for purposes of comparing a population of cells to a limited set of candidate cell types that have a different replication timing profile for such informative segment s . A replication timing fingerprint may generally exclude uninformative segments that are not consistent among cells of the same type or that do not differ among cells of different types.

For purposes of the present invention the term resolution with reference to arrays refers to how much resolution may be achieved along the length of one or more chromosomes. In general the more probes and or oligonucleotides along a given length of a chromosome the greater or higher the resolution may be for such length of a chromosome assuming roughly equal spacing. Therefore the terms density and probe density for an array are directly related to the term resolution since a greater or higher probe density along a given length of a chromosome would generally result in greater or higher resolution for the same length of a chromosome. Conversely the term spacing or probe spacing is inversely related to gene density and resolution for an array since a lower or reduced spacing on average between probes and or oligonucleotides on the array as a function of chromosomal position would generally result in greater or higher resolution or probe density. For example an array having an average probe spacing of about 6 kb or less along a length of a chromosome would have a probe density or resolution of about 6 kb or higher for such length of chromosome.

For purposes of the present invention the term storage and the term storage medium refer to any form of storage that may be used to store bits of information. Examples of storage include both volatile and non volatile memories such as ERAM flash memory floppy disks Zip disks CD ROM CD R CD RW DVD DVD R DVD R hard disks optical disks etc.

For purposes of the present invention the term type of leukemia refers to any distinguishable type of leukemia. The types of leukemia can be grouped based on how quickly the disease develops and gets worse. For example leukemia may be considered either chronic which usually gets worse slowly or acute which usually gets worse quickly . In the case of chronic leukemia early in the disease the leukemia cells can still do some of the work of normal white blood cells. People may not have any symptoms at first. Doctors often find chronic leukemia during a routine checkup before there are any symptoms. Slowly chronic leukemia gets worse. As the number of leukemia cells in the blood increases people get symptoms such as swollen lymph nodes or infections. When symptoms do appear they are usually mild at first and get worse gradually. In the case of acute leukemia the leukemia cells can t do any of the work of normal white blood cells. The number of leukemia cells increases rapidly. Acute leukemia usually worsens quickly. The types of leukemia also can be grouped based on the type of white blood cell that is affected. Leukemia can start in lymphoid cells or myeloid cells. Leukemia that affects lymphoid cells is called lymphoid lymphocytic or lymphoblastic leukemia. Leukemia that affects myeloid cells is called myeloid myelogenous or myeloblastic leukemia. There are four common types of leukemia 1 chronic lymphocytic leukemia CLL 2 chronic myeloid leukemia CML 3 acute lymphocytic lymphoblastic leukemia ALL and 4 acute myeloid leukemia AML . CLL affects lymphoid cells and usually grows slowly. It accounts for more than 15 000 new cases of leukemia each year. Most often people diagnosed with the disease are over age 55. It almost never affects children. CML affects myeloid cells and usually grows slowly at first. It accounts for nearly 5 000 new cases of leukemia each year. It mainly affects adults. ALL affects lymphoid cells and grows quickly. It accounts for more than 5 000 new cases of leukemia each year. ALL is the most common type of leukemia in young children. It also affects adults. AML affects myeloid cells and grows quickly. It accounts for more than 13 000 new cases of leukemia each year. It occurs in both adults and children.

For purposes of the present invention the term visual display device or visual display apparatus includes any type of visual display device or apparatus such as a CRT monitor an LCD screen an LED screen a projected display a printer for printing out an image such as a picture and or text etc. A visual display device may be a part of another device such as a computer monitor television projector cell phone smartphone laptop computer tablet computer handheld music and or video player personal digital assistant PDA handheld game player head mounted display a heads up display HUD global positioning system GPS receiver automotive navigation system dashboard watch microwave oven electronic organ automated teller machine ATM etc. A visual display device may be used to display to a user images of the various images plots graphs etc. described below and shown in the drawings. A printer may display an image plot graph etc. to a user by printing out the image plot graph 

Abnormal replication timing has been observed in cancer but no previous study has comprehensively evaluated this misregulation. Genome wide replication timing profiles have now been generated for pediatric leukemias from 17 patients and three cell lines as well as normal B and T cells. Nonleukemic EBV transformed lymphoblastoid cell lines displayed highly stable replication timing profiles that were more similar to normal T cells than to leukemias. Leukemias were more similar to each other than to B and T cells but were considerably more heterogeneous than nonleukemic controls. Some differences were patient specific while others were found in all leukemic samples potentially representing early epigenetic events. Differences encompassed large segments of chromosomes and included genes implicated in other types of cancer. Remarkably differences that distinguished leukemias aligned in register to the boundaries of developmentally regulated replication timing domains that distinguish normal cell types. Most changes did not coincide with copy number variation or translocations. However many of the changes that were associated with translocations in some leukemias were also shared between all leukemic samples independent of the genetic lesion suggesting that they precede and possibly predispose chromosomes to the translocation. Altogether these results identify sites of abnormal developmental control of DNA replication in cancer that reveal the significance of replication timing boundaries to chromosome structure and function and support the replication domain model of replication timing regulation. They also open new avenues of investigation into the chromosomal basis of cancer and provide a potential novel source of epigenetic cancer biomarkers.

DNA replication in human cells proceeds according to a defined temporal order Hiratani et al. 2009 Reference 22 . Several studies have identified abnormal temporal control of replication in many cancers Amiel et al. 2001 2002 References 3 and 4 Smith et al. 2001 Reference 49 Sun et al. 2001 Reference 52 Korenstein Ilan et al. 2002 Reference 29 . For example specific chromosome translocations result in a chromosome wide delay in replication timing Breger et al. 2005 Reference 8 Chang et al. 2007 Reference 9 that is found frequently in cancer cells Smith et al. 2001 Reference 49 . Some cancer specific replication timing changes appear to be epigenetic in that similar to developmental changes they are mitotically stable but do not involve detectable genetic lesions Eul et al. 1988 Reference 16 Adolph et al. 1992 Reference 2 . A far reaching aspect of epigenetic abnormalities is that they are potentially reversible. In fact in a mouse lymphoma model showing aberrant replication timing fusion of affected cells with normal mouse fibroblasts restored the normal pattern of replication timing and reversed the malignant phenotype Eul et al. 1988 Reference 16 Adolph et al. 1992 Reference 2 . Despite these observations there has not been a comprehensive study to evaluate the extent of replication timing abnormalities in cancer.

Genome wide replication timing profiles have been generated for a wide collection of human and mouse cell lines and embryonic stem cell ESC differentiation intermediates revealing developmentally regulated changes in replication timing that encompass at least half of the genome ReplicationDomain.org . Developmentally regulated changes take place in units of 400 800 kb and are associated with changes in subnuclear 3D organization of the affected domains Hiratani et al. 2008 2010 References 21 and 23 . This replication timing program is a highly stable epigenetic characteristic of a given cell type that is indistinguishable between the same cell types from different individuals Pope et al. 2011 . This stability has allowed for the development of tools to unambiguously determine cellular identity using their specific replication fingerprints Ryba et al. 2011b Reference 46 . Intriguingly replication timing profiles correlate more strongly with genome wide maps of the sites and frequencies of chromatin interactions Hi C Lieberman Aiden et al. 2009 Reference 30 than with any other chromosomal property identified to date Ryba et al. 2010 Reference 44 indicating that replication domains reflect the structural architecture of chromosomes and support the model of replication timing domains as structural and functional large scale units the replication domain model . In summary replication timing profiles are unique to specific cell types and define an unexplored level of chromosome domain organization with intriguing potential for epigenetic fingerprinting.

Just as specific cell types display unique replication timing fingerprints specific cancers may also be definable by their replication timing fingerprints. Acute lymphoblastic leukemia ALL is an excellent model cancer to investigate this hypothesis due to the availability of relatively homogeneous cancer tissue from affected patients and several well characterized genetic subtypes linked to prognosis. Current clinical risk stratification for pediatric ALL includes factors such as age leukocyte count at time of diagnosis and recurrent chromosomal abnormalities detected in malignant lymphoblasts Yeoh et al. 2002 Reference 59 Jeha and Pui 2009 Reference 27 Luo et al. 2009 Reference 32 . Chromosomal abnormalities with prognostic significance include aneuploidies such as hypodiploidy 

The majority of patients during this study presented with pre B ALL. Hence the stability of replication timing profiles is first evaluated between nonleukemic human B cells. Since proliferating immature B cells derived directly from patients are not available immature B cells hematogones make up 1 RT unit timing changes toward earlier L to E or later E to L replication from the average normal B cell profile for each of the individual replicate profiles in . shows profiles of four arbitrary patient samples which diverge from each other and from lymphoblastoid B cells in a chromosome that did not harbor karyotypic rearrangements.

As an initial comparison the genome was divided into 12 625 nonoverlapping 200 kb windows and replication profiles were hierarchically clustered to create a dendrogram expressing relatedness between the various cell samples dendogram of . This along with genome wide correlations between control and leukemic lymphoblasts and cell types previously profiled Chart of confirmed that replication profiles of individual leukemic samples were widely divergent and easily distinguished from control lymphoblasts other human cell types and each other. However many differences from control cells were shared between leukemia samples despite their various stages of developmental arrest suggesting that there are replication abnormalities in common between many types of leukemia. Control mature B and T cell profiles were distinct but were more similar to each other than to leukemias of any origin. Nonetheless T ALL patient samples 10 828 10 799 clustered separately from B ALL and samples with TCF3 PBX1 translocations 11 064 RCH ACV as well as those with mostly normal karyotypes 10 838 11 118 formed their own clusters suggesting conservation of features among developmentally related subgroups. Timing changes between leukemic and control cells occurred in a tight size distribution consistent with the 400 800 kb unit size of natural developmentally regulated changes in replication timing and 9 18 of domains detectably deviated from the controls in each leukemic cell line or patient sample with consistent changes between replicates. With the notable exception of patient 10 822 most profiles had a significantly higher fraction of the genome replicating earlier than the controls LtoE rather than later average 7.8 LtoE differences 4.7 EtoL . The amount of change was generally not as great as the 20 of domains that differ between most cell types but significantly higher than the 2 4 of domains that deviate between cells of the same type the 4.5 between B and T cells or the 6.0 between human ESC derived early endoderm vs. mesoderm tissues Hiratani et al. 2010 Reference 23 Ryba et al. 2010 2011a References 44 and 45 . Replication timing changes were distributed throughout the genome on all chromosomes Supplemental FIG. 3 of Reference 60 more evenly than the breakpoints present in patient samples and unlike the phenomenon of chromothripsis where multiple breaks are clustered on a single chromosome Liu et al. 2011 Reference 31 . All replication profiles reported here are freely available to view or download Weddington et al. 2008 Reference 56 .

Although 90 of mononucleate cells from bone marrow aspirates are leukemic only 5 10 of cells were in S phase Supplemental FIG. 2 of Reference 60. Hence it was important to validate that these replication profiles were indeed derived from leukemic cells rather than proliferating contaminants. Most leukemias contain karyotypic abnormalities that distinguish them from contaminating cells Supplemental FIG. 1 of Reference 60 . Many of these lesions should be detectable in replication timing data serving as internal validation for the leukemic source of the replication timing profiles. For example aneuploidies were readily detectable as copy number variation CNV derived from the sum of raw signal values Cy3 Cy5 for probes encompassing those chromosomes Supplemental FIG. 4 of Reference 60 providing validation for many samples.

The translocation breakpoints that juxtapose early and late replication domains should be detectable as unnaturally sharp transitions in replication timing at the breakpoint where sequences are no longer in their original genomic position. As proof of principle a translocation in cell line REH for which the breakpoint junctions of both translocation partners have been precisely mapped was examined Wiemels et al. 2000 Reference 57 a translocation that fuses the ETV6 formerly TEL1 gene at 12p13 with RUNX1 formerly AML1 at 21q22. As shown in this breakpoint was readily detected within ETV6 as an abrupt shift toward later replication timing that coincides with the molecularly mapped position of the breakpoint in REH. Downstream from the normally late replicating RUNX1 partner a shift to earlier replication also localized to the molecularly mapped breakpoint position data not shown . Using this principle it was possible to more precisely map an additional REH translocation that mapped cytogenetically between 94.8 and 107.5 Mb Horsley et al. 2006 Reference 24 of 12q23 and by replication timing to 105.08 Mb middle plot . This locus is within the CHST11 gene that was found to be aberrant in other subtypes of leukemia e.g. CLL Hiraoka et al. 2000 Reference 20 Okuda et al. 2000 Reference 39 Schmidt et al. 2004 Reference 48 . Hence this method was able to provide further validation of sample source and demonstrates that replication timing data can facilitate the localization of translocation breakpoints. It should be noted that translocations that fuse loci with similar replication timing are not expected to produce abrupt shifts. This is consistent with results in patient 10 668 in which a Philadelphia chromosome translocation t 9 22 q34 q11 fuses two regions that are normally late replicating and remain late after translocation data not shown .

Also found were abrupt timing shifts not represented by translocations in published karyotypes of REH right plot . Abrupt shifts in replication timing could also result from localized CNV. Amplifications could delay the time for replication forks to arrive to normally adjacent sequences and would appear as shifts toward later replication while homozygous deletions would result in background levels of hybridization that would average to a log ratio of zero. Hence abrupt shifts in replication timing ratio data were computationally identified and determined whether each corresponded to significant CNV determined from raw array values Supplemental FIGS. 5 6 7 and 8 of Reference 60 . A CNV was considered significant if it encompassed 2 probes within 10 kb with overall intensity outside of the 99.9th 0.1st percentiles. This analysis revealed that abrupt shifts in replication timing coinciding with sites of karyotypically defined translocations did not accompany significant CNV left plot middle plot whereas abrupt shifts that were not at known translocation sites represented either deletions or amplifications right plot . For example abrupt replication timing changes at 20.70 20.92 Mb and 21.49 21.59 Mb of Chr. 22 right plot which include the IGLV2 14 and IGLL1 loci involved in B cell maturation and often rearranged in leukemia Tang et al. 1991 Reference 53 Brauninger et al. 2001 Reference 7 are clearly due to large deletions encompassing those sequences that suddenly bring the replication timing ratio to zero. Importantly using algorithms and comparing the data to known CGH data for REH it was possible to identify 79 of known gains 6 8 losses 30 37 and translocations 2 3 left table . This appears to be an underestimate since REH is an established cell line it is possible that additional genetic changes exist between these cells and those that were analyzed for CGH.

Using these methods it was possible to identify 87 of known karyotypic and genetic abnormalities from patient samples providing important validation for the ability of replication timing to query proliferating leukemic cells directly from bone marrow samples right table Supplemental FIGS. 4 5 6 7 and 8 of Reference 60 . However as with REH several examples of abrupt timing changes in patient samples at sites not detected as lesions in karyotypic data have been found some of which were conserved among multiple samples of different ALL subtypes. For instance samples 10 822 10 828 and 10 838 all displayed a sharp shift to later replication at the same location near 12.95 Mb on chromosome 12 but did not show karyotypic abnormalities at this site in fact 10 838 showed a normal karyotype . In all three cases this replication timing change was associated with a gain in copy number . Intriguingly this locus is within suspected tumor suppressor gene GPRCSA Tao et al. 2007 Reference 54 Acquafreda et al. 2009 Reference 1 suggesting the possibility that persistent STAT3 activation due to mutation of GPRCSA Chen et al. 2010 Reference 10 may be a contributing factor in these patients. Interestingly both samples 10 822 carrying the t 17 19 and 10 838 were from relapsed patients who eventually died of their disease suggesting that GPRCSA disruption should be investigated for potential prognostic significance. The break region also contains a binding site for the B cell CLL lymphoma 11A BCL11A protein which mediates gamma globin expression and blood cell maturation through long range chromatin interactions Xu et al. 2010 Reference 58 .

Taken together it may be concluded that genome wide replication timing profiles generated from bone marrow samples of leukemia patients accurately reflect the replication program of their leukemic cells. Moreover they simultaneously report on both replication timing abnormalities and CNV. It can be estimated that depending on the timing difference between the regions and the proportion of cells with the translocation at least 30 50 of translocations and 75 of CNVs will be detectable from replication timing profiles Supplemental FIGS. 4 5 6 7 and 8 of Reference 60 . Moreover replication timing analyses reveal long range influences of a breakpoint on replication timing which may propagate hundreds of kilobases from the break site and such changes would not be detected by conventional CGH or genome sequencing. Such distal changes could be very important. For example deregulation of genes hundreds of kilobases from a common breakpoint in an a plastic large cell lymphoma ALCL has been shown to play a causal role in ALCL Mathas et al. 2009 Reference 34 .

The premise for this study was to test the hypothesis that just as specific cell types display unique epigenetically regulated replication timing fingerprints cancers might display their own class of epigenetic replication timing differences. These replication timing fingerprints can be identified using a previously described replication fingerprinting algorithm Ryba et al. 2011b Reference 46 which isolates regions of unique replication timing between any predesignated sets of samples. As shown in different classes of leukemia can be distinguished by their common differences in replication timing from all other samples. Replication fingerprints found only in B ALL n 16 T ALL n 2 AML n 1 or patients and cell lines with TCF3 PBX1 translocations n 2 were identified. A complete list of these fingerprints can be found in Supplemental Table 2 of Reference 60. As expected from and comparison to normal mature human CD4 T cells verified that some T ALL specific fingerprints were likely due to normal developmental differences. Without access to normal human proliferating immature lymphoblasts it is difficult to rule out the possibility that any individual feature of the fingerprint may reflect arrest at a particular stage of immature B cell development. However a much higher proportion of differences from B cell controls were shared between B ALL and T ALL than were exclusive to either one suggesting that many differences from controls were not due to the developmental stage of the leukemias and at least some were common to all leukemias discussed below .

Fingerprinting identifies a small number 20 of the largest replication timing differences. This contrasts with hierarchical clustering which highlights widespread but small differences in replication timing across the genome. For example in and patients 10 838 11 118 11 220 11 132 10 820 11 015 11 253 and 10 668 clustered together but it was not possible to find a well defined fingerprint able to distinguish this group of patients from all others. Importantly the criteria for fingerprinting largely excluded changes associated with genetic lesions. In fact using the criteria provided in the descriptions of and 74 of fingerprint regions did not exhibit CNVor abrupt changes in Cy3 Cy5 ratios 61 Mb from the fingerprint region e.g. . Due to their lack of association with genetic changes detectable by karyotype or CNV analysis these replication timing fingerprints may be referred to as epigenetic replication timing fingerprints albeit genetic changes that do not affect CNV or replication time such as inversions within regions of constant replication timing would not be detected . Some epigenetic fingerprints were specific to a single cell line or patient sample . These changes may serve as unique identifiers of the different patient leukemias regardless of whether they represent arrested development or are causally linked and should be pursued for their potential as biomarkers for risk stratification.

To verify these findings by an independent method one of the replication timing changes specific to the cell line REH was analyzed by the singlet doublet DNA replication assay and .

After cellular fixation methods that separate sister chromatids fluorescence in situ hybridization FISH reveals replicated homologs as doublet signals in the nucleus while unreplicated homologs appear as singlets. These results confirmed that the REH specific fingerprint region displayed a substantially higher frequency of doublets than the same region in nonleukemic GM06990 or than an adjacent region that replicates late in both normal and leukemic cells. This result was further con firmed through replication timing in situ hybridization ReTiSH Schlesinger et al. 2009 Reference 47 Supplemental FIG. 9 of Reference 60 

Many replication timing changes were found to be in common between all leukemia cells referred to as pan leukemic fingerprints and . These changes are unlikely to be the result of differences in the developmental stage of the ALL samples vs. the B cell baseline as they were also found in the few T ALL and AML samples that have been profiled but may represent early events in leukemogenesis . Since each type of leukemia has a different genetic constitution panleukemic changes are likely to be epigenetic in origin in most leukemias. One such aberration is located at the RUNX1 locus at the site of the ETV6 RUNX1 translocation that in this study was found in the cell line REH and several patient samples and which causes a large shift from late to early replication over several hundred kilobases. Intriguingly every leukemic cell type profiled had this same extensive replication timing fingerprint terminating at the same boundaries independent of the breakpoint. This finding indicates that the replication timing change reflects an epigenetic misregulation that precedes possibly predisposes breakage at this site and that the replication timing domain boundaries rather than the site of translocation determine the range of influence . The RUNX1 gene is thought to be involved in normal hematopoiesis and is one of the most frequently disrupted genes in leukemia Niebuhr et al. 2008 Reference 38 . These observations support the hypothesis that RUNX1 serves a gate keeping function for leukemia Niebuhr et al. 2008 Reference 38 and suggest that the pan leukemic replication timing finger print may be related to the disease state due to an epigenetic phenomenon rather than a mutation or translocation.

Other interesting examples in the pan leukemic fingerprint include a region downstream from the RUNX1 gene at 39 Mb on chromosome 21 in all leukemic cell types profiled . Like the RUNX1 region this region is much earlier replicating than control B cells in all leukemic cell types. Interestingly this region contains the ERG gene which is involved in hematopoietic regulation and chromosomal translocations in other types of cancer including AML Marcucci et al. 2005 Reference 33 . Another example is a region of the extended MHC Major Histocompatibility Complex that harbors two gene clusters the BTN butyrophilin and the major histone gene cluster HIST1. The BTN cluster contains a total of seven genes including the BTN1A1 gene and the two subfamilies BTN2 and BTN3 each of which contain three genes Rhodes et al. 2001 Reference 43 . The precise role of these genes in immune response is unknown but BTN1A1 and the BTN2 genes have been implicated as negative regulators of T cell activation Smith et al. 2010 Reference 50 . BTN3 mRNA is widely expressed in immune cells such as T cells B cells macrophages dendritic cells and monocytesm with most protein expression occurring at the cell surface Rhodes et al. 2001 Reference 43 Compte et al. 2004 Reference 12 Smith et al. 2010 Reference 50 . Additionally most members of the BTN family contain a 30.2 protein domain which is a 170 amino acid globular domain found at the C terminus of proteins for which there is evidence of involvement in inflammatory response Compte et al. 2004 Reference 12 . The histone gene cluster contains a total of six genes HIST1H4H HIST1H2BI HIST1H3G HIST1H2BH HIST1H3F and HIST1H4G. Interestingly this gene cluster is also present in a group of replication timing fingerprints specific to pluripotent cell types Ryba et al. 2011b Reference 46 . Finally to confirm predictive ability of the pan leukemic fingerprint for new samples a leave one out cross validation LOOCV as described Ryba et al. 2011b Reference 46 was applied to predict the identity of each sample using regions selected in the absence of that sample. In this test leukemic nonleukemic identity was accurately assessed in 40 40 test cases and 87 of fingerprint regions were conserved throughout cross validation. A complete list of the pan leukemic fingerprint regions can be found in Supplemental Table 2 of Reference 60.

Replication timing fingerprints are of the same size range as normal developmentally regulated replication domains . This raised the possibility that they represent misregulation of developmental control over replication timing as has been described for DNA methylation changes in cancers Hansen et al. 2011 Reference 19 Pujadas and Feinberg 2012 . To test this hypothesis the collection of leukemia fingerprints were compared with profiles of the same genomic regions from nine cell types that have been profiled in the past Weddington et al. 2008 Reference 56 Pope et al. 2011 Reference 40 Ryba et al. 2011b Reference 46 . More than half of these aligned in register to a developmentally regulated replication domain boundary and Supplemental FIG. 10 of Reference 60 . The remaining half of the fingerprints shared boundaries present in all queried cell types or in rare cases appeared to create a new boundary within a large early or late replicating region. These latter cases could be developmental replication timing boundaries in cell types that have not been queried. Importantly in no case did a leukemia fingerprint boundary pass over a developmental boundary or appear in a novel position out of register with a known boundary. These results indicate that the replication timing differences that distinguish leukemias from each other and from normal cell types are the same units of chromosomes that distinguish cell types from each other. Interestingly however the cohort of fingerprints for any particular leukemia correlated poorly R 0.43 0.61 with that of any profiled human cell type Ryba et al. 2011b Reference 46 indicating that leukemias do not take on the identity of any particular cell type but acquire misregulated features of many different cell types.

Here it is shown that genome wide replication timing analyses detect widespread deregulation of replication timing in leukemias. While control cell lines show remarkably stable and cell type specific replication profiles leukemic samples deviate substantially from controls and from each other demonstrating a high degree of instability in the replication program. These differences occurred largely in units of 400 800 kb and align with developmentally programmed changes in replication timing supporting the concept of the replication domain as a unit of chromosome structure and function and suggest that mechanisms acting at the level of these units are misregulated in cancer. Despite their heterogeneity leukemic cells all share certain replication timing aberrations indicating common early events in leukemogenesis that appear to be conserved. Some of these commonalities occur at sites of translocations but are remarkably identical independent of the translocation suggesting that the changes precede the translocation and that the distance over which replication timing is influenced is determined by misregulation of replication timing domains rather than by the site of translocation. These results provide the first comprehensive assessment of replication misregulation in cancer identify novel epigenetic events occurring early in leukemogenesis and suggest the possibility that specific subtypes of leukemia may be linked to specific replication timing fingerprints that should be pursued for their potential as a novel genre of cancer biomarkers.

Genome wide assessments of transcription sites of DNA methylation and the distribution of chromatin proteins and their modifications have received a lot of recent attention and offer great promise Bibikova et al. 2006 Reference 5 . However each is informative for only the fraction of the genome affected by each property and some of these methods are expensive and laborious. Replication profiles comprehensively and reliably assess epigenetic state genome wide and are considerably less expensive to generate and easier to interpret than these other markers. Full genome scale profiling can be performed with less than a million cells Gilbert 2010 Reference 18 Hiratani et al. 2010 Reference 23 . Analysis of replication timing is fundamentally different from other common genome wide methodologies in that it queries large scale organization of the genome which has otherwise been assessed only through challenging chromatin conformation capture methods Lieberman Aiden et al. 2009 Reference 30 . In fact the uncanny alignment of replication timing to existing chromatin interaction maps Ryba et al. 2010 Reference 44 implies that replication timing profiles predict megabase level spatial organization of chromosomes. Hence replication timing changes likely reflect novel spatial relationships e.g. unusual juxtapositions of chromosome segments that may predispose cells to particular translocation events. Consistently a recent analysis found significant linkages between cancer rearrangements and replication timing De and Michor 2011 Reference 15 . Hence replication timing abnormalities have the potential to inform early cancer diagnosis.

In translocations between temporally distinct replication domains replication timing will necessarily change across hundreds of kilobases. Since different types of chromatin are assembled at different times this may transmit chromatin changes long distances from the break site. In fact attempts to implicate the gene loci near translocation breakpoints in the etiology of the associated cancer have met with limited success Hunger et al. 1998 Reference 26 Strefford et al. 2009 Reference 51 Hence replication profiling has the potential to detect long range effects of a chromosome break. In addition complex genome rearrangements smaller than 1 Mb that do not alter copy number such as inversions will escape detection by both spectral karyotyping and comparative genomic hybridization CGH methods but may replicate at a distinctly different time from their native location. Finally most of the replication timing differences that have now been identified between leukemias are unlikely to be associated with any genetic lesion and would not be detected by any other current method. At present the significance of replication timing changes to the cancer phenotype is unknown. There is a general correlation between replication timing and gene expression but it is promoter specific and appears to reflect transcriptional competence rather than transcription per se Hiratani et al. 2009 Reference 22 . The similarity in sizes of replication domains and regions of long range epigenetic silencing LRES that has been observed in many cancers Coolen et al. 2010 Reference 13 Hsu et al. 2010 Reference 25 Dallosso et al. 2012 Reference 14 and the observation that LRES consolidates the cancer genome to reduce transcriptional plasticity while replication timing consolidates during differentiation Hiratani et al. 2008 Reference 21 suggest a potential relationship between these mechanisms. Taken together replication profiling can identify novel genetic lesions and their associated long range effects as well as epigenetic changes that escape detection by other diagnostic methods.

Sources of control cells lines CO202 GM06990 GM06999 and NC NC are provided in Supplemental FIG. 1 of Reference 60. Cell lines REH RCH ACV and CALL 2 were purchased from ATCC. Cells were cultured in standard media of RPMI with 10 fetal bovine serum 4 mM glutamine 1 penicillin and streptomycin.

Patient bone marrow samples were collected as part of ongoing clinical trials at OHSU from patients who consented for enrollment in biologic studies. Currently patients 80 lymphoblasts. Other fresh bone marrow samples were obtained from the Children s Oncology Group COG ALL Cell Bank for a pilot study. These fresh samples were processed to purify mononuclear cells by centrifugation through Ficoll. The mononuclear cell ring was then isolated and counted. Then 0.5 1 3 107 cells were labeled with 10 mg mL BrdU for 2 h in RPMI 10 FBS media fixed in 70 ethanol and shipped to FSU.

Genome wide replication timing was analyzed as described in detail Ryba et al. 2011a Reference 45 using NimbleGen HD2 arrays 3 3 720 K format with average interprobe spacing of 2509 bp. Probes were designed against build Hg18 NCBI 36 of the human genome.

Replication timing data were normalized within and between arrays using the limma package in R and smoothed using loess with a span of 300 kb as described Ryba et al. 2011a Reference 45 . To quantify the relative percentage of the genome with significant changes in timing the fraction of loess smoothed points with RT value differences of 1 or greater were calculated. For clustering and fingerprint analysis data were averaged into nonoverlapping 200 kb windows and replication fingerprints were created as described Ryba et al. 2011b Reference 46 to identify regions of shared replication timing changes in defined groups of samples. Hierarchical clustering was performed using the pvClust package in R with absolute correlation as a distance metric. Methods for CNV detection were applied using the CGHweb R package and R Bioconductor scripts to identify regions encompassing 2 probes within 10 kb with overall intensity outside of the 99.9 th 0.1st percentiles.

Methods and techniques including techniques and methods conducted manually ad or by a computer that may be employed in various embodiments of the present invention to determine that a population of cells are a specific type of leukemic cells based on a replication timing fingerprint are described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 479 686 to Gilbert et al. entitled GENOME SCALE ANALYSIS OF REPLICATION TIMING filed May 24 2012 and the entire contents and disclosure of this patent application are incorporated herein by reference. The methods and techniques described in Gilbert et al. that may be employed in various embodiments of the present invention include but are not limited to obtaining replication timing profiles using a high resolution genomic array determining one or more replication timing fingerprints of a cell by comparing replication domain timing profiles the computer assisted identification and characterization of replication domains and their properties e.g. chromosomal position length boundaries etc. for a population of cells based on the replication timing profile for the population of cells etc.

Techniques and materials that may be used in various embodiments of the present invention are described in Ryba T. Battaglia D. Chang B. H. Shirley J. W. Buckley Q. Pope B. D. Devidas M. Druker B. J. and Gilbert D. M. Abnormal developmental control of replication timing domains in pediatric acute lymphoblastic leukemia 22 10 1833 44 2012 the entire contents and disclosure of which are incorporated herein by reference.

All documents patents journal articles and other materials cited in the present application are incorporated herein by reference.

Having described a particular embodiment of the present invention it will be apparent that modifications and variations are possible without departing from the scope of the invention defined in the appended claims. Furthermore it should be appreciated that the example provided in the present disclosure while illustrating a particular embodiment of the invention is provided as a non limiting example and is therefore not to be taken as limiting the various aspects so illustrated.

While the present invention has been disclosed with references to certain embodiments numerous modification alterations and changes to the described embodiments are possible without departing from the sphere and scope of the present invention as defined in the appended claims. Accordingly it is intended that the present invention not be limited to the described embodiments but that it has the full scope defined by the language of the following claims and equivalents thereof.

