---

title: Image processing apparatus method and computer program product
abstract: An image processing apparatus, method and computer program storage device cooperate to receive character information and broadcast program information, and then insert the character information in a capture portion of the program information. The program information includes audio-visual data to be displayed, as well as caption attribute information.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09008492&OS=09008492&RS=09008492
owner: Sony Corporation
number: 09008492
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20120510
---
The present disclosure relates to an image processing apparatus method and computer program product for displaying character information such as a tweet regarding a broadcast program on a screen along with the broadcast program and relates to a video picture recording apparatus for recording the character information and the broadcast program.

At the present day there has been provided a TWITTER a registered trademark which renders short sentence services serving as a function between chatting and a blog and an SNS Social Network Service through a network such as the Internet. These services allow short sentence tweets following a specific short sentence tweet registered by a certain user in a TWITTER server to be registered by an unspecified user other than the certain user. In this way a user is capable of disclosing a tweet of its own with a light heart whereas other users are capable of among others responding to the tweet. The number of characters included in a tweet that can be registered is 140 or an integer smaller than 140. Posted tweets are displayed along the time axis by adoption of a display method referred to as a time line. That is a tweet posted most recently is displayed on the top to be followed sequentially in the downward direction by tweets posted less recently to form a flow of tweets. Each individual link information for a still picture a moving picture or a piece of music can be added to a tweet after the still picture the moving picture or the piece of music has been uploaded at another site to result in the link information.

By looking at a hash tag in a posted tweet it is possible to identify what the tweet has been posted for. There are a number of users each posting a tweet for a broadcast TV program. In this case if the broadcasting station is the NHK Nihon Housou Kyoukai for example a nhk hash tag seen by a user as a hash tag included in a tweet makes the user capable of determining that the tweet has been posted as a tweet for the NHK.

In recent years there has been provided a function for displaying information on tweets regarding such a broadcast program on a screen of a TV receiver or the like along with the broadcast program. For details of the function the reader is advised to refer to Non Patent Document 1 Linked Network Torne Update Ver. 2.10 Library Sony Computer Entertainment Corporation online searched on Mar. 18 2011 Internet .

In order to display a tweet along with a broadcast program on a screen however the display area of the broadcast program is contracted to secure another window to serve as a frame for displaying the tweet. In addition if the tweet is simply displayed on the screen it is quite within the bounds of possibility that important portions of an image of the program are inadvertently concealed behind the tweet.

It is thus an aim of the present disclosure addressing the problem described above to display character information such as a tweet regarding a broadcast program at a proper position on a screen along with the broadcast program.

Since caption information of a broadcast program is provided by the broadcasting station in many cases the caption information is displayed at a position raising no problem even if the caption information is superposed on the image of the program. Thus if character information such as a tweet regarding a broadcast program is displayed by making use of display position information included in the caption information of the broadcast program the character information can be displayed at a proper position indicated by the display position information.

a program receiving section that receives broadcast program information the program information including audio visual data to be displayed and caption attribute information and

an image generation section that inserts the character information in a caption portion of the program information.

the image generation section inserts the character information for display on a display device based on position information of the caption character information the position information being included in the attribute information.

the image generation section inserts the program related character information for display on a display device.

the image generation section inserts the character information for display on a display apparatus at a fixed location on the image when the caption character information is not included in the broadcast program information.

a specification information generation section that searches a storage device for specification information associated based on an identified broadcast station from a program array information analysis section and sends an address to the remote device for identification of the character information that corresponds with the program information.

a specification information generation section that searches a storage device for specification information associated based on user setting information and sends an address to the remote device for identification of the character information that corresponds with the user setting information.

a specification information generation section that generates specification information based on characters included in electronic program guide information and acquires the character information about a program that is not directly broadcast to the apparatus from a broadcast station.

the image generation section selects the character information as caption information when obtained from a caption processing section and selects the character information as a tweet when received from a tweet processing section.

the information generation section inserts the character information in the caption portion of the program information in order of character information acquisition time for fixed time intervals.

a video picture recording processing section that prepares and stores a video image that has the character information inserted in the caption portion of the program information.

receiving broadcast program information at a program receiving section the program information including audio visual data to be displayed and caption attribute information and

the inserting includes inserting the character information for display on a display device based on position information of the caption character information the position information being included in the attribute information.

the inserting includes inserting the program related character information for display on a display device.

the inserting inserts the character information for display on a display apparatus at a fixed location on the image when the caption character information is not included in the broadcast program information.

searching a storage device for specification information associated based on an identified broadcast station from a program array information analysis section and sending an address to the remote device for identification of the character information that corresponds with the program information.

searching a storage device for specification information associated based on user setting information and sending an address to the remote device for identification of the character information that corresponds with the user setting information.

generating specification information based on characters included in electronic program guide information and acquiring the character information about a program that is not directly broadcast to the apparatus from a broadcast station.

the selecting includes selecting the character information as caption information when obtained from a caption processing section and selecting the character information as a tweet when received from a tweet processing section.

According to a non transitory computer readable storage device embodiment the device includes instructions stored therein that when executed by a processing circuit perform a method that includes

receiving broadcast program information at a program receiving section the program information including audio visual data to be displayed and caption attribute information and

inserting with the processing circuit the character information in a caption portion of the program information.

As described above in accordance with the embodiment of the present disclosure it is possible to insert program related character information such as a tweet regarding a broadcast program into a proper position in an image of the broadcast program and possible to display and record the character information in a display apparatus and an image recording apparatus respectively along with the broadcast program.

Embodiments of the disclosure are explained by referring to accompanying diagrams as follows. In the diagrams every configuration element common to the embodiments is denoted by the same reference symbol and the common configuration element is explained only once in order to avoid duplications of descriptions. The embodiments are explained in chapters arranged in the following order 

This chapter explains an image processing apparatus which is a typical apparatus for acquiring a tweet attached by a broadcasting station.

This sub chapter explains an image processing apparatus which is a typical apparatus for extracting characters from information on a broadcast program generating specification information and acquiring a tweet.

A first embodiment to be explained below displays a received broadcast program and short sentence character information such as a tweet represented by a TWITTER regarding the broadcast program together on the screen of a display apparatus. In this embodiment the character information is a string of characters including at least kanji characters kana characters alphanumeric characters and symbols. It is assumed that the number of characters composing the character information is limited. For example the number of characters is 140 or an integer smaller than 140.

The character information display system according to the first embodiment employs tweet information server a specification information server and an image processing apparatus . The tweet information server is a server in which a plurality of pieces of character information serving as a tweet have been stored. The image processing apparatus receives TV broadcast waves conveying broadcast programs. The tweet information server the specification information server and the image processing apparatus are connected to each other through a network such as the Internet so that the tweet information server the specification information server and the image processing apparatus are capable of communicating with each other. The image processing apparatus is connected to a display apparatus . A typical general example of the image processing apparatus is a video picture recorder. The image processing apparatus may receive a broadcast program by making use of a radio or wire facility.

The specification information server includes a saved specification information table like typically Table 1 to be given below. It is to be noted that a service ID is information automatically assigned by a broadcasting station but the same broadcasting station may assign a service ID which may vary in accordance with the area.

A piece of specification information on an entry of Table 1 serving as a specification information table is information corresponding to a hash tag of a TWITTER. The specification information server has a data table stored therein in advance as a table used for indicating association of each broadcasting station with a hash tag used by the broadcasting station. A URL Uniform Resource Locator is created on the basis of this specification information. The URL is used for acquiring a tweet attached to broadcasting station information included in information on a broadcast program. A typical example of the information on a broadcast program is SI Service Information . The URL is the address of an information resource existing in the Internet. A typical example of the information resource is a resource of texts images and the like.

A specification information table can be acquired as follows. First of all when the image processing apparatus is activated or when an operation determined in advance is carried out the specification information table showing data of specification information is downloaded from the specification information server and the data is stored in storage section of the image processing apparatus . It is desirable to manage the data so as to always be the most recent data stored in the storage section of the image processing apparatus . Thereby it is possible to keep up with increases decreases of the broadcasting station count and to keep up with addition of a new broadcasting station to the specification information table or elimination of an existing broadcasting station from the specification information table. For example it is possible to provide a configuration in which when the user carries out an operation on the image processing apparatus to preset the frequency of a signal receivable from the image processing apparatus the image processing apparatus transmits information on a broadcasting station for the frequency preset in the image processing apparatus to the specification information server whereas in return the specification information server transmits specification information attached to the received information on the broadcasting station to the image processing apparatus . A typical example of the specification information is a hash tag.

It is to be noted that in a configuration wherein the specification information table is not downloaded from the specification information server the image processing apparatus may directly create the specification information table and store the specification information table in the storage section thereof. In this case the image processing apparatus may create the specification information table automatically or in accordance with a manual operation carried out by the user.

Next an outline of operations carried out by the character information display system is explained as follows.

First of all the image processing apparatus determines whether or not a new tweet exists in the tweet information server . That is by making use of certain specification information as a search key the image processing apparatus searches tweets registered in the tweet information server for a tweet associated with the specification information.

In the tweet information server an open API Application Programming Interface has been prepared so that by merely carrying out a network communication according to an HTTP GET method tweet information at an address specified by a URL can be obtained. If it is desired to acquire tweet information of an A television broadcasting station shown in Table 1 for example typically the image processing apparatus specifies http search.TWITTER.com search.atom q 23AAA as the URL of the A television broadcasting station and transmits the URL to the tweet information server . Then the image processing apparatus receives tweet information associated with AAA representing the A television broadcasting station from the tweet information server . The information received from the tweet information server is saved in the image processing apparatus and displayed on the screen of the display apparatus .

Next the following description explains a caption display and a tweet display which are generated in the character information display system according to the present embodiment of the present disclosure.

Here if there is no new tweet a caption is displayed in a caption display area on the screen of the display apparatus as shown in . It is to be noted that in the typical display shown in the caption is displayed at a position allocated to the caption to occupy the entire caption display area so that no tweet can be displayed. If a new tweet exists on the other hand the tweet information is acquired and displayed in the caption display area at a position allocated to the caption as shown in .

As described above by displaying short sentence character information of a tweet at a position allocated by a broadcasting station to a caption the character information can be displayed on the screen of the display apparatus without improperly veiling a position on the program image existing in the background of the caption display area .

The format of a tweet received by the image processing apparatus from the tweet information server can be selected and set by the user to operate a remote controller. The format of a tweet includes the size of characters and the color of the tweet. In addition the user is capable of switching an option to display the character information of a tweet to an option not to display the character information of a tweet and vice versa by entering a command of selecting an item representing one of the options from an option menu.

As an option item of an option menu screen an item referred to as a caption tweet display switching option is provided. It is possible to provide a toggle mechanism described as follows. As a default a caption is displayed. When the item referred to as the caption tweet display switching option is clicked the display is switched to a tweet. When the item referred to as the caption tweet display switching option is clicked again the display is switched back to a caption. It is to be noted that an option item referred to as words of concern is used for the purpose of creating specification information serving as a hash tag in this embodiment on the basis of characters included in EPG Electronic Program Guide information also referred to as SI information and obtaining tweet information related to a broadcast program. Details of the words of concern will be described later.

Next the configuration of the tweet information server and the specification information server is explained as follows.

Each of the tweet information server and the specification information server can be implemented typically as a general purpose computer. is a block diagram showing a typical internal configuration of hardware of the general purpose computer referred to hereafter simply as a computer .

As shown in the figure the computer employs a CPU Central Processing Unit a ROM Read Only Memory and a RAM Random Access Memory which are connected to each other by a bus .

The bus is also connected to an input output interface . The input output interface is connected to an input section an output section a storage section a communication section and a drive .

The input section includes a keyboard a mouse and a microphone whereas the output section includes a display unit and a speaker. The storage section includes a hard disk and a nonvolatile memory. The communication section is a network interface. On the drive a removable recording medium is mounted and driven. The removable recording medium can be a magnetic disk an optical disk a magnetic optical disk or a semiconductor memory.

In the computer having the configuration described above the CPU executes programs in order to carry out the processing described above. The programs executed by the CPU are typically programs loaded into the RAM from the storage section by way of the input output interface and the bus .

The programs to be executed by the CPU employed in the computer can be presented to the user by storing the programs in the removable recording medium used as a package recording medium. In addition the programs can also be presented to the user through a wire or radio transmission medium such as a local area network the Internet or a digital broadcast.

In the computer the programs can be installed in the storage section by transferring the programs from the removable recording medium to the storage section by way of the drive and the input output interface when the removable recording medium is mounted on the drive . In addition the programs can be downloaded by the communication section by way of the wire or radio transmission medium. Then the programs are installed in the storage section by transferring the programs from the communication section to the storage section by way of the input output interface . On top of that the programs can be stored in advance in the ROM or the storage section .

When the tweet information server having the configuration described above receives a URL created on the basis of a hash tag from the image processing apparatus the CPU searches pieces of character information stored in the storage section for specific character information specified by the URL. If the character information specified by the URL is found in the search the character information is transmitted to the image processing apparatus by way of the network .

In addition it is possible to provide a configuration in which when the specification information server receives a request for transmission of a specification information table like Table 1 from the image processing apparatus the CPU reads out the specification information table from the storage section and transmits the table to the image processing apparatus . As an alternative configuration the image processing apparatus may make a request for specification information such as a hash tag for a specific broadcasting station. That is in the alternative configuration when the specification information server receives a request for transmission of specification information from the image processing apparatus the CPU reads out the specification information for the broadcasting station from the storage section and transmits the information to the image processing apparatus .

The image processing apparatus is divided into two large blocks that is a block for carrying out processing on a broadcast program and a block for carrying out processing on tweet information.

The block for carrying out processing on a broadcast program includes a program receiving section an image sound analysis section a caption information analysis section and a caption processing section .

On the other hand the block for carrying out processing on tweet information includes a network communication section a specification information generation section a specification information memory a tweet information analysis section and a tweet processing section . The network communication section is a typical communication section.

In addition the image processing apparatus also has a control section a remote controller interface a set information memory and an image generation section .

The program receiving section is a typical example of a program receiving section having the function of the so called tuner. The program receiving section receives TV broadcast waves conveying a broadcast program through an antenna supplying the received broadcast program to the image sound analysis section and the caption information analysis section .

The image sound analysis section is a typical example of a video picture extraction section for analyzing the broadcast program received by the program receiving section extracting image and sound data from the program and outputting the data to the image generation section .

The caption information analysis section and the caption processing section are typical examples of configuration elements composing a caption extraction section.

The caption information analysis section analyzes a broadcast program received by the program receiving section extracts caption information from the program and supplies the information to the caption processing section . The caption processing section extracts character information and attribute information from the caption information extracted by the caption information analysis section and outputs the character information and the attribute information to the image generation section . The character information is a string of characters.

As an example the character information of a caption corresponds to first and second caption sentences of an ARIB Association of Radio Industries and Businesses standard. On the other hand the attribute information of a caption corresponds to caption management data of the ARIB standard. In the following description the first caption sentence is also referred to as a first caption or caption whereas the second caption sentence is also referred to as a second caption or caption . On the other hand the caption management data for the first caption sentence is also referred to as first attribute information or attribute whereas the caption management data for the second caption sentence is also referred to as second attribute information or attribute .

The network communication section is a typical example of a communication section for carrying out communications with the external network employed in the character information display system shown in . A typical example of the network is the Internet.

The specification information generation section analyzes the contents of the specification information table acquired from the specification information server or the like. As described before the specification information table is a table in which a plurality of pieces of specification information which are typically hash tags have been registered. Then the specification information generation section extracts specification information from the specification information table. The specification information is information used for specifying broadcasting station information and attached character information which are included in information on a broadcast program and used for acquiring the broadcasting station information and the attached character information. Subsequently from the specification information which is typically a hash tag the specification information generation section creates a URL for tweet information to be acquired from the tweet information server .

The specification information memory is a memory used for storing the specification information table such as Table 1. It is also possible to provide a configuration in which the specification information generation section creates specification information by referring to a broadcasting station and specification information which have been registered in the specification information table. As described earlier a typical example of the specification information is a hash tag. In addition the specification information memory is also used for storing user set information which is any arbitrary specification information set by the user to serve as information on among others a persona and or a genre.

The tweet information analysis section and the tweet processing section are typical examples of configuration elements composing a character information acquisition section. The tweet information analysis section and the tweet processing section acquire character information serving as a tweet created as information related to a broadcast program from the tweet information server through the network communication section . In the tweet information server a plurality of pieces of character information each serving as a tweet have been registered.

The control section receives a remote controller signal such as an infrared light ray from a remote controller not shown in the figure through the remote controller interface . The remote controller is a typical example of an operation section. In addition the control section controls blocks in the image processing apparatus on the basis of the remote controller signal. For example the control section controls data communications carried out by the network communication section and controls processing carried out by the specification information generation section and the specification information memory to generate specification information. In addition the control section also stores set information in the set information memory in accordance with an operation carried out by the user and informs the image generation section of the contents of a direct operation signal. Typically the control section is implemented as an MPU Micro Processing Unit .

The remote controller interface receives the remote controller signal such as an infrared light ray from the remote controller not shown in the figure converts the remote controller signal into an electrical signal and outputs the electrical signal to the control section .

The set information memory is a memory used for storing various kinds of set information. One piece of set information is information used for switching the display from a caption to a tweet or vice versa. If first and second captions have been set for a broadcast program another piece of set information is used for selecting one of the first caption and the second caption.

In accordance with information stored in the set information memory as the set information used for switching the display from a caption to a tweet or vice versa the image generation section inserts character information of a caption or character information of a tweet into a predetermined position in a caption display area and generates an image including the character information. Then the image generation section outputs the generated image to the display apparatus .

As shown in the figure the image generation section employs a character information select portion an attribute information analysis portion and an image synthesis portion .

On the basis of set information the character information select portion selects character information received from the caption processing section as character information of a caption or character information received from the tweet processing section as character information of a tweet and supplies the selected character information to the image synthesis portion .

The attribute information analysis portion analyzes the contents of attribute information received from the caption processing section in order to find out desired information and outputs the desired information to the image synthesis portion . The desired information includes the number of used captions the size of the caption display area and the position of a caption in the caption display area.

On the basis of the position information included in the attribute information as the position of a caption in the caption display area the image synthesis portion inserts the character information of a caption or a tweet into a predetermined position included in the caption display area of image sound data to be input as a position provided for character information and generates an image. Then the image synthesis portion provides the display apparatus with the generated image including the character information already inserted into the predetermined position in the caption display area.

As shown in the figure the flowchart begins with a step S at which first of all the character information select portion employed in the image generation section selects a caption or a tweet on the basis of set information. Concurrently with the process performed at this step S the attribute information analysis portion analyzes attribute information of the caption at the step S.

Then at the next step S the image generation section determines whether or not the character information select portion has selected a tweet at the step S. If the image generation section determines at the step S that the character information select portion has selected no tweet at the step S the flow of the processing goes on to a step S at which the image synthesis portion generates an image into which a caption is inserted on the basis of the attribute information of the caption and outputs the image to the display apparatus .

If the image generation section determines at the step S that the character information select portion has selected a tweet at the step S on the other hand the flow of the processing goes on to a step S at which the image synthesis portion determines whether or not the received broadcast program is a video picture with a caption on the basis of the attribute information of the broadcast program. If the image synthesis portion determines at the step S that the received broadcast program is a video picture with no caption the flow of the processing goes on to a step S at which the image synthesis portion inserts the character information of the tweet into a fixed position on the image to be displayed supplying the image and the tweet to the display apparatus . In the case of a broadcast program with no caption or in the case of a display between CMs commercial messages for example the character information of the tweet is displayed at the fixed position on the displayed image.

If the image synthesis portion determines at the step S that the received broadcast program is a video picture with a caption on the other hand the flow of the processing goes on to a step S at which on the basis of a position specified in the attribute information as the position of the caption in the caption display area the image synthesis portion inserts the character information of the tweet into the position of the caption on the image to be displayed.

In this case the image synthesis portion determines whether or not the character information of the tweet to be inserted into the image can be contained in the caption display area at the next step S. If the image synthesis portion determines at the step S that the character information of the tweet may not be contained in the caption display area the flow of the processing goes on to a step S at which the image synthesis portion inserts the character information of the tweet into the caption display area in the image to be displayed by adopting another method determined in advance and outputs the image to the display apparatus .

Typically the maximum number of characters composing a tweet that can be registered in the TWITTER is 140. Thus the character string of a tweet may not all be contained in the caption display area so that conceivably a portion of the tweet may not be displayed in the caption display area. In this case on the basis of the size of the characters of the tweet and the size of the caption display area the image synthesis portion computes the number of displayable characters in the character string of the tweet and displays only the displayable characters beginning with the start character of the character string. If the character string of the tweet may not all be contained in the caption display area the displayable characters are displayed by terminating the displayable characters with the characters . . . indicating that a portion of the character string may not be displayed. In this way the user can be made aware of the fact that a portion of the character string of the tweet may not be displayed. Thus if the user desires to view the continuation of the displayable portion included in the character string of the tweet the user can take an action by directly viewing the tweet registered in the tweet information server .

As an alternative the image synthesis portion may increase the number of rows in the caption display area to a value greater than a row count prescribed in advance for the caption display area and display the character information of the tweet by making use of all the rows including the additional ones. As another alternative the image synthesis portion may display the character information of the tweet in the caption display area by rolling up or scrolling the tweet.

If the image synthesis portion determines at the step S that the character information of the tweet to be inserted into the image can be contained in the caption display area on the other hand the flow of the processing goes on to a step S at which the image synthesis portion provides the display apparatus with the image including the character information of the tweet inserted into the position of the caption. Then the processing represented by this flowchart is terminated at the end of the process carried out at the step S.

Next the following description explains methods each adopted for acquiring a tweet from the tweet information server .

In accordance with a first tweet acquisition method a broadcasting station is identified from information on a broadcast program and a tweet is acquired on the basis of specification information for the broadcasting station.

A program array information analysis section included in the configuration shown analyzes program array information included in a broadcast program received by the program receiving section and identifies the broadcasting station of the broadcast program from the program array information such as SI information. Then the program array information analysis section supplies information on the broadcasting station to the specification information generation section also included in the configuration shown . The specification information generation section searches the specification information table stored in the specification information memory for specification information associated with the identified broadcasting station. For example the specification information generation section finds specification information of AAA shown in Table 1 in the search as specification information associated with the identified broadcasting station. Then the specification information generation section transmits a URL based on this specification information to the tweet information server by way of the network communication section . In response to the URL transmitted by the specification information generation section the tweet information server transmits data including a tweet to the image processing apparatus . Then the tweet information analysis section employed in the image processing apparatus receives and analyzes the data to extract the character information of the tweet associated with the broadcasting station. Subsequently the tweet information analysis section supplies the character information of the tweet to a storage apparatus .

As described above in accordance with this first tweet acquisition method a broadcasting station is identified from information on a presently viewed program being broadcasted by the station and a tweet associated with the station can be acquired on a real time basis on the basis of specification information registered in the specification information table as the specification information for the station.

In accordance with a second tweet acquisition method to be described below on the other hand specification information is generated on the basis of user set information which is information set by the user and a tweet can be acquired as follows.

The user provides the specification information generation section with user set information such as jishin earthquake set in accordance with an operation carried out by the user. As an alternative the specification information generation section makes use of user set information stored in advance in the specification information memory . As explained before set by the user the user set information is arbitrary information such as a persona appearing on a broadcast program or a genre. The specification information generation section generates specification information such as jishin for the user set information and transmits a URL based on the specification information to the tweet information server by way of the network communication section . In response to the URL received from the specification information generation section the tweet information server transmits data including a tweet to the image processing apparatus . Then the tweet information analysis section employed in the image processing apparatus receives and analyzes the data to extract the character information of the tweet associated with the user set information. Subsequently the tweet information analysis section supplies the character information of the tweet to the storage apparatus .

As described above in accordance with this second tweet acquisition method a tweet associated with specification information generated on the basis of user set information can be acquired on a real time basis as a tweet not necessarily related to information on a broadcast program being viewed presently.

In addition a tweet can also be acquired by combining the first and second tweet acquisition methods. In this case a tweet can be obtained under a finely adjusted condition. For example specification information generated in accordance with the first tweet acquisition method is added to specification information generated in accordance with the second tweet acquisition method or specification information generated in accordance with the first tweet acquisition method is multiplied by specification information generated in accordance with the second tweet acquisition method.

It is to be noted that the storage apparatus is an external nonvolatile data recording apparatus having a large storage capacity. Typical examples of the storage apparatus are a hard disk a semiconductor memory and a removable recording medium.

As shown in the figure the flowchart begins with a step S at which first of all the control section employed in the image processing apparatus detects an operation which is carried out by the user on the image processing apparatus to start viewing a broadcast program.

After detecting the operation to start the viewing of a broadcast program at the next step S the control section carries out control to acquire a tweet regarding the broadcast program being viewed from the tweet information server storing the tweet and the acquisition time of the tweet in the storage apparatus .

Then at the next step S the control section determines whether or not the data of the tweet has been acquired successfully at the step S. If the control section determines at the step S that the data of the tweet has not been acquired successfully at the step S the flow of the processing goes back to the step S at which the control section again carries out control to reacquire a tweet regarding the broadcast program being viewed from the tweet information server . To be more specific if the control section determines at the step S that the data of the tweet has not been acquired successfully at the step S the flow of the processing goes back to the step S at which the control section again carries out control to reacquire a tweet regarding the broadcast program being viewed from the tweet information server after waiting for typically a time period of 30 seconds to elapse since the preceding acquisition time stored in the storage apparatus as a tweet for a difference from the preceding acquisition time.

If the control section determines at the step S that the data of the tweet has been acquired successfully at the step S on the other hand the flow of the processing goes on to a step S at which the control section controls the image generation section to output an image to the display apparatus so that the display apparatus displays the tweet for a display time period of five seconds. It is to be noted that the display time period of five seconds is a typical time period. That is the tweet may be displayed for a display time period different from five seconds.

Then at the next step S the control section determines whether or not a time period of five minutes has lapsed since the acquisition of the data of the tweet. If the control section determines at the step S that the time period of five minutes has lapsed since the acquisition of the data of the tweet the flow of the processing goes on to a step S. The time period of five minutes is adopted as a criterion because if there are a number of tweets it undesirably takes at least five minutes to complete an operation to display all the tweets so that less recent information is displayed. In this way it is possible to monitor whether or not a less recent tweet remains undisplayed during the time period of five minutes. Thus a recent tweet can always be acquired. It is to be noted that the time period of five minutes is a typical time period. That is the time period can be other than five minutes.

If the control section determines at the step S that the time period of five minutes has not lapsed since the acquisition of the data of the tweet the flow of the processing goes on to a step S at which the control section determines whether or not the data of all the acquired tweets has been output from the image generation section to the display apparatus to be displayed on the display apparatus . If the control section determines at the step S that the data of all the acquired tweets has not been displayed on the display apparatus the flow of the processing goes back to the step S at which the control section carries out control to display the data of the remaining tweets.

If the control section determines at the step S that the data of all the acquired tweets has been displayed on the display apparatus on the other hand the flow of the processing goes on to the step S cited above. At the step S the control section carries out control to reacquire the data of tweets for the difference from the preceding acquisition time. Then the flow of the processing goes back to the step S at which the control section carries out control to acquire a tweet regarding the broadcast program being viewed from the tweet information server storing the tweet and the acquisition time of the tweet in the storage apparatus .

If the tweet information server is out of order or if a communication failure occurs in the network no tweet data is displayed. The event of such a breakdown or the event of such a failure is equivalent to a case in which the number of acquired tweets is found to be 0 in the determination process carried out at the step S.

In accordance with the first embodiment described above by making use of information on the position of a caption the character information of a tweet is displayed at the position of the caption so that it is not necessary to provide another window to be used for displaying the tweet.

In addition since the character information of a tweet is displayed at a position determined by a broadcasting station as the position of a caption it is possible to display the character information of a tweet without improperly veiling a position on the program image existing in the background of an area allocated to the caption.

The modified version is configured to generate specification information which is a hash tag in the case of this modified version on the basis of characters included in EPG information or SI information transmitted from a broadcasting station along with a broadcast program and acquire tweet information regarding the broadcast program. The following description explains the modified version by focusing the discussion on differences between the image processing apparatus A shown in and the image processing apparatus shown in .

In comparison with the image processing apparatus the image processing apparatus A is configured to newly include a character extraction section a character dictionary and a Roman character conversion section .

A specification information generation section acquires character information extracted by a program array information analysis section from program array information and supplies the character information to the character extraction section . The character information includes kanji and hiragana characters.

The character extraction section compares the character information acquired by the specification information generation section with characters registered in advance in the character dictionary . If the character information acquired by the specification information generation section includes a character registered in advance in the character dictionary the character extraction section supplies the character to the Roman character conversion section . The character dictionary is typically a nonvolatile data recording apparatus which can be the storage apparatus .

The Roman character conversion section converts a kanji or hiragana character into katakana characters and converts the katakana characters into Roman characters. Then the Roman character conversion section outputs the Roman characters to the specification information generation section .

The specification information generation section creates specification information serving as a hash tag in this case by among others appending the special character to the head of the Roman characters received from the Roman character conversion section . Then the specification information generation section transmits a URL based on the specification information to the tweet information server by way of the network communication section . In response to the URL received from the specification information generation section the tweet information server transmits tweet information regarding the broadcast program to the image processing apparatus A employing the specification information generation section . In this way the image processing apparatus A is capable of acquiring tweet information automatically.

As described above the modified version of the first embodiment is capable of generating specification information on the basis of characters included in EPG information or SI information and automatically acquiring tweet information regarding the broadcast program from the specification information. Thus the user is capable of easily acquiring tweet information regarding a program other than a program broadcasted by the broadcasting station without the need to create specification information.

A second embodiment is a typical embodiment applying the principle of the character information displaying processing which is carried out by the image processing apparatus shown in according to the first embodiment to a video picture recording apparatus .

First of all the configuration of the video picture recording apparatus according to the second embodiment is explained as follows.

In each component identical with its counterpart employed in the image processing apparatus shown in is denoted by the same reference numeral as the counterpart and details of such a component are not explained. The video picture recording apparatus shown in employs a video picture recording processing section in place of the image generation section employed in the image processing apparatus shown in and employs a storage apparatus serving as the recipient of the output of the video picture recording processing section in place of the display apparatus employed in the image processing apparatus . The remaining components other than the video picture recording processing section and the storage apparatus have configurations common to the video picture recording apparatus and the image processing apparatus .

Next the configuration of the video picture recording processing section employed in the second embodiment is explained as follows.

The attribute information analysis portion has the same function as the attribute information analysis portion shown in . That is the attribute information analysis portion analyzes the contents of attribute information received from the caption processing section to find out desired information and outputs the desired information to the recording portion . The desired information includes the number of used captions the size of the caption display area and the position of a caption in the caption display area.

On the basis of the position information included in the attribute information as the position of a caption in the caption display area the recording portion inserts the character information of a caption or a tweet into a predetermined position of character information which is included in the caption display area of image sound data and generates an image. Then the recording portion provides the storage apparatus with the generated image including the character information already inserted into the predetermined position in the caption display area.

As shown in the figure the flowchart begins with a step S at which first of all the attribute information analysis portion employed in the video picture recording processing section analyzes attribute information of a caption included in a received broadcast program. Then at the next step S the attribute information analysis portion determines whether a first or second caption has not been used. If the attribute information analysis portion determines at the step S that the first and second captions have been used the flow of the processing goes on to a step S at which the recording portion stores the first and second captions in the recording apparatus as they are along with the video picture.

If the attribute information analysis portion determines at the step S that the first or second caption has not been used on the other hand the flow of the processing goes on to a step S at which the recording portion replaces the character information of the unused caption with the character information of a tweet. If only the second caption is available for example a caption is inserted into the first caption as it is whereas the character information of a tweet is inserted into the caption position of the second caption on the basis of information on the caption position.

Then at the next step S the recording portion records a video picture to be displayed into the storage apparatus . The video picture to be displayed includes the character information of a tweet inserted into the caption position of the available second caption in the caption display area. Then the processing represented by this flowchart is terminated at the end of the process carried out at the step S.

In accordance with the second embodiment explained above it is possible to place the character information of a tweet at a caption position determined by a broadcasting station and record an image including the character information of the tweet in the storage apparatus . Thus at a recording time it is possible to record the character information of a tweet without improperly veiling a position on the program image existing in the background of an area allocated to the caption.

In addition in accordance with the ARIB standard two captions can be inserted into one broadcast program and the user is allowed to select any arbitrary one of the two captions. If the broadcasting station makes use of only one caption the character information of a tweet can be inserted into the position of the other caption which is not used for displaying the character information of the other caption and the character information of a tweet can thus be recorded along with the video picture of the broadcast program. In addition if the character information of a tweet is stored as caption information the character information of a tweet can be handled in the same way as a video picture recorded by adoption of the method in the past. Thus the second embodiment is compatible even with other recording apparatus made by other companies as long as the other recording apparatus conform to typically the BD Blue ray Disk .

It is to be noted that at a recording time attribute information is analyzed to determine whether or not a caption exists so as to determine whether or not the two caption positions are available. If the two caption positions are not available one of the two caption positions can be selected and the character information of a tweet may be inserted into the selected caption position over a caption which would otherwise be displayed at the selected caption position.

A third embodiment is a typical embodiment applying the principle of the character information displaying processing which is carried out by the image processing apparatus shown in according to the first embodiment to a reproduction apparatus .

First of all the configuration of the reproduction apparatus according to the third embodiment is explained as follows.

In each component identical with its counterpart employed in the image processing apparatus shown in is denoted by the same reference numeral as the counterpart and details of such a component are not explained. The reproduction apparatus shown in employs a storage apparatus in place of the program receiving section employed in the image processing apparatus shown in to serve as a source for supplying the contents of a video picture including a caption. The remaining components other than the storage apparatus have configurations common to the reproduction apparatus and the image processing apparatus .

Next the configuration of an image generation section employed in the reproduction apparatus according to the third embodiment is explained as follows.

In accordance with the third embodiment the character information of a tweet is placed at a caption position determined by a broadcasting station and the contents of a recorded video picture are read out from a recording apparatus to reproduce the video picture. Thus at a reproduction time it is possible to reproduce the character information of a tweet without improperly veiling a position on a program image existing in the background of an area allocated to the caption.

In the embodiments described above the character information of a tweet having a character count within a predetermined number of characters is explained as a typical example of character information to be displayed on a screen along with a broadcast program. However the character information to be displayed on a screen along with a broadcast program does not have to be the character information of such a tweet. For example what is written on an electronic board or the like can also be taken as an example of such character information. That is the character information to be displayed on a screen along with a broadcast program can be any other character information as long as the other character information can be expressed by a relatively short sentence. The effects of the embodiments of the present disclosure can also be obtained as well for such a relatively short sentence.

In addition the present disclosure can also be applied as well even to a standard other than the ARIB standard which is a Japanese digital broadcasting standard. Typical examples of the other standard are the DVB which is the European digital broadcasting standard and the ATSC which is the American digital broadcasting standard provided that information on the display position of a caption is included in the character information for a broadcast program.

It is to be noted that in the typical configuration shown in the image processing apparatus and the display apparatus are provided separately from each other. However the configuration of the character information display system does not have to be the typical configuration shown in . For example the character information display system can also be a TV receiver having all the functions embedded therein.

It is to be noted that the series of processes according to the embodiments described previously can be carried out by hardware or execution of software. If the series of processes described above is carried out by execution of software programs composing the software can be installed into a computer embedded in dedicated hardware or a general purpose computer. A general purpose computer is a computer which can be made capable of carrying out a variety of functions by installing a variety of programs into the computer.

In addition the recording medium used for recording the program codes of the software for implementing the functions of each of the embodiments described above is provided to the system or the apparatus. Then the computer or a control section such as a CPU of the system or the apparatus reads out the program codes recorded on the recording medium to execute the programs composing the software. In this way it is possible to implement the functions of each of the embodiments described above.

On top of that as described above by executing the program codes read out by the computer it is possible to implement the functions of each of the embodiments explained so far. In addition on the basis of instructions of the program codes an OS operating on the computer carries out some or all of the actual processes. By carrying out some or all of the actual processes it is possible to implement the functions of each of the embodiments explained above in some cases.

In addition in this specification of the present disclosure steps of a flowchart representing the processing described above can of course be carried out in a prescribed order along the time axis. However the steps do not have to be carried out in the prescribed order along the time axis. Instead the steps can also be carried out concurrently or individually. That is the processing represented by the flowchart may typically include parallel processing or object oriented processing.

It should be noted that the technique according to the present disclosure can also adopt configurations as will be described above.

a caption extraction section configured to extract caption character information composing a caption of the broadcast program received by the program receiving section and attribute information from the broadcast program 

a video picture extraction section configured to extract the video picture of the broadcast program received by the program receiving section 

a communication section configured to carry out communications with an apparatus external to the image processing apparatus 

a character information acquisition section configured to acquire character information created in association with the broadcast program from a server in which a plurality of pieces of such character information have been stored by way of the communication section and

an image generation section configured to output the video picture including the character information inserted into the position of the caption character information on the video picture to a display apparatus on the basis of information on the position of the caption character information the position information being included in the attribute information.

a program information acquisition section configured to acquire information on the broadcast program received by the program receiving section along with the broadcast program and

a specification information generation section configured to generate specification information used for specifying the character information associated with broadcasting station information included in the information on the broadcast program and acquiring the character information from the server 

the character information acquisition section receives the character information associated with the broadcasting station information the character information being transmitted by the server in response to the specification information.

a specification information generation section configured to generate specification information used for specifying the character information associated with information set by the user and acquiring the character information from the server 

the character information acquisition section receives the character information associated with the information set by the user the character information being transmitted by the server in response to the specification information.

a program information acquisition section configured to acquire information on the broadcast program received by the program receiving section along with the broadcast program 

a character extraction section configured to extract a character from the information on the broadcast program and acquiring a character corresponding to the extracted character from among the characters registered in a character dictionary 

a Roman character conversion section configured to convert the corresponding character acquired by the character extraction section into a Roman character and

a specification information generation section configured to generate specification information used for specifying the character information associated with the Roman character and acquiring the character information from the server 

the character information acquisition section receives the character information associated with information set by the user the character information being transmitted by the server in response to the specification information.

5 In the image processing apparatus like the apparatus described as any one of paragraphs 2 to 4 the image generation section includes a character information select portion configured to select the caption character information or the character information in accordance with set information as character information to be inserted into the position of the caption character information in the video picture.

6 In the image processing apparatus like the apparatus described as any one of the paragraphs 2 to 5 the image generation section inserts pieces of the character information acquired by the character information acquisition section from the server into the position of the caption character information in the video picture in an order of character information acquisition times at fixed time intervals.

7 In the image processing apparatus like the apparatus described as any one of the paragraphs 2 to 6 the character information is a character string having a character count within a predetermined number of characters.

a caption extraction section configured to extract caption character information composing a caption of the broadcast program received by the program receiving section and attribute information from the broadcast program 

a video picture extraction section configured to extract the video picture of the broadcast program received by the program receiving section 

a communication section configured to carry out communications with an apparatus external to the image processing apparatus 

a character information acquisition section configured to acquire character information created in association with the broadcast program from a server in which a plurality of pieces of such character information have been stored by way of the communication section and

a video picture recording processing section configured to output the video picture including the character information inserted into the position of the caption character information on the video picture to a display apparatus on the basis of information on the position of the caption character information the position information being included in the attribute information.

It is to be noted that implementations of the present disclosure are not limited to the embodiments described above. That is the present disclosure can also be implemented as one of a variety of modified versions obtained by changing the embodiments and applied to a variety of applications without departing from the spirit and scope of claims described in the specification of the present disclosure.

The present disclosure contains subject matter related to that disclosed in Japanese Priority Patent Application JP 2011 118903 filed in the Japan Patent Office on May 27 2011 the entire content of which is hereby incorporated by reference.

