---

title: Pull-out wand
abstract: A pull-out wand is disclosed for use with a water delivery device. The pull-out wand may include one or more sensors, such as a touch sensor and/or a proximity sensor.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09228329&OS=09228329&RS=09228329
owner: Delta Faucet Company
number: 09228329
owner_city: Indianapolis
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120220
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 700 556 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 118 240 filed Jan. 31 2007 and claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 794 229 filed Apr. 20 2006 titled ELECTRONIC USER INTERFACE FOR ELECTRONIC MIXING OF WATER FOR RESIDENTIAL FAUCETS and U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 793 885 filed Apr. 20 2006 titled TOUCH SENSOR the disclosures of which are expressly incorporated by reference herein.

The present invention relates generally to a pull out wand for use with a faucet or other water delivery device and in particular to a pull out wand having one or more sensors coupled to the pull out wand.

In an exemplary embodiment of the present disclosure a water delivery device in fluid communication with at least one source of water positioned below a mounting deck is provided. The water delivery device comprising a base portion in fluid communication with the at least one source of water and a pull out wand portion in fluid communication with the base portion. The pull out wand portion having at least one water output. The pull out wand portion being moveably between a first position proximate to the base portion and a second position spaced apart from the base portion. The water delivery device further comprising a sensor coupled to the pull out wand portion and a valve interposed between the at least one water output of the pull out wand portion and the at least one source of water. The valve being operable to permit communication of water provided by the at least one source of water to the at least one water output of the pull out wand portion in a first configuration and to prevent communication of water provided by the at least one source of water to the at least one water output in a second configuration. The water delivery device further comprising a controller operably coupled to the sensor and operably coupled to the valve. The controller causes the valve to be in the first configuration in response to a first indication from the sensor.

In another exemplary embodiment of the present disclosure a pull out wand for use with a base portion having an associated controller which controls a flow of fluid through the base portion is provided. The pull out wand comprising a housing moveable between a first position proximate the base portion and a second position spaced apart from the base portion a waterway within the housing in fluid communication with the base portion and a sensor supported by the housing. The sensor operably coupled to the associated controller of the base portion.

In a further exemplary embodiment of the present disclosure a water delivery device for use by a user is provided. The water delivery device being in fluid communication with at least one source of water positioned below a mounting deck. The water delivery device comprising a base portion in fluid communication with the at least one source of water a pull out wand portion in fluid communication with the base portion and having at least one water output a valve interposed between the at least one water output of the pull out wand portion and the at least one source of water an in water sensor adapted to detect if the user is contacting the water exiting the at least one water output of the pull out wand portion and a controller operably coupled to the in water sensor and operably coupled to the valve. The pull out wand portion being moveably between a first position proximate to the base portion and a second position spaced apart from the base portion. The valve being operable to permit communication of water provided by the at least one source of water to the at least one water output of the pull out wand portion in a first configuration and to prevent communication of water provided by the at least one source of water to the at least one water output in a second configuration. The controller causing the valve to remain in the first configuration in response to the in water sensor detecting the user being in contact with the water exiting the at least one water output of the pull out wand portion.

Additional features and advantages of the present invention will become apparent to those skilled in the art upon consideration of the following detailed description of the illustrative embodiment exemplifying the best mode of carrying out the invention as presently perceived.

The embodiments of the invention described herein are not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed. Rather the embodiments selected for description have been chosen to enable one skilled in the art to practice the invention. Although the disclosure is described in connection with water it should be understood that additional types of fluids may be used.

Referring to a diagrammatic representation of a water delivery device is shown. Water delivery device includes a base portion and a pull out wand portion . Base portion and pull out wand portion are shown positioned on a first side of a mounting deck . Exemplary mounting decks include a countertop a sink top a tub a wall and other suitable mounting structures.

In one embodiment water delivery device is a residential kitchen faucet and mounting deck is one of a countertop or a sink. Base portion is a portion of a spout. Pull out wand portion is a portion of the spout which is moveable relative to the base portion from a first position proximate the base portion to a second position spaced apart from the base portion . One or more waterways extend from the base portion to the pull out wand portion when the pull out wand portion is in the second position. Exemplary spout base portions and pull out portions and methods for coupling each are disclosed in U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 794 229 filed Apr. 20 2006 titled ELECTRONIC USER INTERFACE FOR ELECTRONIC MIXING OF WATER FOR RESIDENTIAL FAUCETS U.S. Published patent application Ser. No. 11 325 128 Publication No. 20060130907 titled SPOUT ASSEMBLY FOR AN ELECTRONIC FAUCET U.S. Published patent application Ser. No. 11 325 284 Publication No. 20060202142 titled Method and apparatus for providing strain relief of a cable and U.S. Published patent application Ser. No. 11 393 450 Publication No. 20060283511 titled MAGNETIC COUPLING FOR SPRAYHEADS the disclosures of which are expressly incorporated by reference herein.

Base portion is coupled to the mounting deck . Pull out wand portion is coupled to and or supported by base portion . Exemplary couplings between base portion and pull out wand portion are mechanical couplings such as o rings on a docking component and or magnetic couplings. In the embodiment illustrated in base portion is in fluid communication with a mixing valve . Mixing valve is in fluid communication with a source of hot water through waterway and a source of cold water through waterway . Mixing valve based on an input provided by one or more user inputs regulates the temperature and or flow of water to base portion through a waterway. In a first configuration mixing valve prevents the flow of water to base portion . In a second configuration mixing valve permits the flow of water to base portion .

In one embodiment valve provides ON OFF control. In one embodiment valve provides ON OFF control flow regulation and temperature regulation. In one embodiment valve is comprised of multiple valves which together provide ON OFF control temperature regulation and or flow regulation. Exemplary valves are provided in U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 794 229 filed Apr. 20 2006 titled ELECTRONIC USER INTERFACE FOR ELECTRONIC MIXING OF WATER FOR RESIDENTIAL FAUCETS U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 109 281 filed Apr. 19 2005 titled ELECTRONIC PROPORTIONING VALVE U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 758 373 filed Jan. 12 2006 titled ELECTRONIC MIXING VALVE and Patent Cooperation Treaty Patent Application Serial No. PCT US2006 044023 filed Nov. 13 2006 titled INTEGRATED BATHROOM ELECTRONIC SYSTEM and the additional patents disclosed herein the disclosures of which are expressly incorporated by reference herein.

In one embodiment user inputs directly interact with mixing valve such as a handle coupled to the mixing valve and actuatable by a user. In one embodiment user inputs indirectly interact with mixing valve such as by providing one or more inputs to a controller . Exemplary inputs to controller include selections made through an electronic user interface user actuatable handles having electrical sensors associated therewith touch sensors and or proximity sensors such as infrared IR sensors and capacitive proximity sensors. Exemplary capacitive proximity sensors are disclosed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 641 574 filed Dec. 19 2006 titled MULTI MODE HANDS FREE AUTOMATIC FAUCET U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 898 524 filed Jan. 31 2007 titled HANDS FREE FAUCET UTILIZING NON CONDUCTIVE MATERIALS AND CAPACITIVE SENSORS and U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 898 525 filed Jan. 31 2007 titled SINK BASIN CAPACITIVE SENSORS FOR HANDS FREE ACTIVATION OF A FAUCET the disclosures of which are expressly incorporated by reference herein. In one example the range of the capacitive proximity sensor is about 3 inches. Additional details regarding exemplary controllers electronic user interfaces user actuatable handles touch sensors and proximity sensors are provided in U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 794 229 filed Apr. 20 2006 titled ELECTRONIC USER INTERFACE FOR ELECTRONIC MIXING OF WATER FOR RESIDENTIAL FAUCETS the disclosure of which is expressly incorporated by reference herein.

Mixing valve and controller are illustrated as being positioned on an opposite side of mounting deck as base portion and pull out wand portion . In one embodiment one or both of mixing valve and controller are positioned on the same side of mounting deck as base portion . In one embodiment one or both of mixing valve and controller is incorporated into one of base portion and pull out wand portion . Further in one embodiment controller includes a first controller positioned in wand portion and a second controller positioned in one of base portion and on an opposite side of mounting deck . The first controller positioned in wand portion interfaces with the sensors included in wand portion such as touch sensor and proximity sensor in and if included any user inputs or electrically actuated valves in wand portion . The second controller positioned in base portion or on the opposite side of mounting deck interfaces with valve and user inputs . The first controller and the second controller being in communication through either a wired or wireless connection. In a wireless connection such as RF wand portion includes a battery to power the first controller. In one embodiment the battery is a rechargeable battery charged with a hydrogenerator disposed in a waterway of wand portion .

Referring to a diagrammatic representation of an embodiment of pull out wand portion is shown. Pull out wand portion includes an internal waterway which is in fluid communication with a waterway extending between base portion and pull out wand portion . In one embodiment waterway and any of the additional waterways disclosed herein are made of a cross linked polyethylene PEX material. In one embodiment the PEX material is corrugated. In one embodiment the corrugated PEX material is covered with a braiding layer as described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 700 640 filed Jan. 31 2007 titled TUBE ASSEMBLY the disclosure of which is expressly incorporated by reference herein.

While in one illustrative embodiment waterway and any of the additional waterways disclosed herein are made of a cross linked polyethylene PEX it should be appreciated that other polymers may be substituted therefor. For example waterway and any of the additional waterways disclosed herein may be formed of any polyethylene PE such as raised temperature resistant polyethylene PE RT polypropylene PP such as polypropylene random PPR or polybutylene PB . It is further envisioned that waterway and any of the additional waterways disclosed herein could be formed of cross linked polyvinyl chloride PVCX using silane free radical initiators from cross linked polyurethane or cross linked propylene XLPP using peroxide or silane free radical initiators.

Waterway is in further fluid communication with a diverter valve . Diverter valve is in fluid communication with two waterways and which are in fluid communication with a first output and a second output respectively. In one embodiment first output is configured to provide water in a spray configuration and second output is configured to provide water in a stream configuration.

Diverter valve as is known in the art diverts the flow of a fluid to one of plurality of potential fluid outlets based on the configuration of the valve. By adjusting the configuration of the valve the fluid outlet that fluid is provided to may be selected. Exemplary diverter valves include manually actuated valves and electrically controlled valves. An exemplary manually actuated diverter valve is a push button diverter such as the push button diverter disclosed in U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 756 839 filed Jan. 5 2006 titled PUSH BUTTON DIVERTER the disclosure of which is expressly incorporated herein by reference. Exemplary electronically controlled diverter valves include solenoid valves. In one embodiment an electronically controlled diverter valve is provided in pull out wand portion and is connected to controller located in one of base portion and the other side of mounting deck through an electrical cable which travels along side of waterway . In one embodiment controller includes a first controller and a second controller as discussed herein.

In one embodiment diverter valve is provided in base portion or on an opposite side of mounting deck as opposed to within pull out wand portion . Since diverter valve would not be positioned within pull out wand portion two waterways such as waterways and would extend from base portion to pull out wand portion each being in fluid communication with a respective outlet of diverter valve .

Pull out wand portion further includes one or more sensors . Sensors are operably coupled to controller through either a wired or wireless connection. In one embodiment one or more of sensors provide an indication of the presence of an object such as a user s hands or other presentments in a detection zone. Additional presentments are disclosed in U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 794 229 filed Apr. 20 2006 titled ELECTRONIC USER INTERFACE FOR ELECTRONIC MIXING OF WATER FOR RESIDENTIAL FAUCETS the disclosure of which has been incorporated by reference herein. In one embodiment one or more of sensors detect the presence of a touch by a user.

Sensors in one embodiment include a proximity sensor and at least one touch sensor . Proximity sensor monitors a detection zone . An exemplary proximity sensor includes an IR emitter which emits IR energy into the detection zone and an IR detector which receives reflected IR energy from the detection zone. When an object such as a user s hands is detected in the detection zone due to the amount of IR energy received by the IR detector proximity sensor provides an indication to controller . In one embodiment controller monitors a voltage corresponding to the IR level detected by the IR detector to determine when a user s hands are present in the detection zone.

Another exemplary proximity sensor is a capacitive proximity sensor. Exemplary inputs to controller include selections made through an electronic user interface user actuatable handles having electrical sensors associated therewith touch sensors and or proximity sensors such as infrared IR sensors and capacitive proximity sensors. Exemplary capacitive proximity sensors are disclosed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 641 574 filed Dec. 19 2006 titled MULTI MODE HANDS FREE AUTOMATIC FAUCET U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 898 524 filed Jan. 31 2007 titled HANDS FREE FAUCET UTILIZING NON CONDUCTIVE MATERIALS AND CAPACITIVE SENSORS and U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 898 525 filed Jan. 31 2007 titled SINK BASIN CAPACITIVE SENSORS FOR HANDS FREE ACTIVATION OF A FAUCET the disclosures of which are expressly incorporated by reference herein. In one example the range of the capacitive proximity sensor is about 3 inches.

Touch sensor monitors a region of pull out wand portion and provides an indication to controller of a user touching that region. In one embodiment touch sensor is a capacitive sensor. Exemplary touch sensors are further described herein. In one embodiment wherein touch sensor is a capacitive sensor controller monitors a capacitance of touch sensor to determine when a user touches the region corresponding to the touch sensor .

Referring to an exemplary pull out wand is shown. Referring to pull out wand portion includes a housing having a removable cover . As shown in cover includes a tab which is received in an opening of housing and an end face having openings which receive couplers not shown . The couplers such as screws extend through the openings and couple into bosses of housing .

Bosses are coupled to a sprayhead member . Referring to sprayhead member includes a first central output and a second surrounding output . In one embodiment first output provides a stream configuration of water and includes a threaded wall for coupling an aerator assembly. First output being in fluid communication with a first fluid inlet . In one embodiment second output includes a plurality of outlets such as A which are in fluid communication with a second fluid inlet . Second output provides a spray configuration.

First fluid inlet and second fluid inlet are in fluid communication with waterways and located within housing respectively. Waterways and are in fluid communication with waterways and respectively which extend back and into a base portion such as base portion . In one embodiment waterways and are apart of the same tubing as waterways and and are called out separately to highlight their position relative to housing .

In one embodiment housing and cover and or base portion are made of a non metallic material. Exemplary non metallic materials include thermoset materials. Exemplary thermoset materials include polyesters melamine melamine urea melamine phenolic and phenolic.

In one embodiment the waterways described herein including waterways and are made from a cross linked polyethylene PEX material. Additional details about PEX materials and methods for creating a waterway therefrom are found in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 700 640 filed Jan. 31 2007 titled TUBE ASSEMBLY the disclosure of which is expressly incorporated by reference herein. In addition further details regarding PEX materials and methods for creating a fluid transport component therefrom are found in one or more of U.S. Pat. No. 5 895 695 U.S. Pat. No. 6 082 780 U.S. Pat. No. 6 287 501 and U.S. Pat. No. 6 902 210 the disclosures of which are expressly incorporated by reference herein.

While in one illustrative embodiment waterways and and any of the additional waterways disclosed herein are made of a cross linked polyethylene PEX it should be appreciated that other polymers may be substituted therefor. For example waterways and and any of the additional waterways disclosed herein may be formed of any polyethylene PE such as raised temperature resistant polyethylene PE RT polypropylene PP such as polypropylene random PPR or polybutylene PB . It is further envisioned that waterways and and any of the additional waterways disclosed herein could be formed of cross linked polyvinyl chloride PVCX using silane free radical initiators from cross linked polyurethane or cross linked propylene XLPP using peroxide or silane free radical initiators.

Waterways and are in fluid communication with a diverter valve such as diverter valve . In one embodiment diverter valve is positioned within housing and a single waterway connects pull out portion with base portion .

Referring to a proximity sensor is located in a lower portion of housing . Sensor includes two windows and through one of which infrared energy is emitted by an IR emitter such as an LED and through the other of which infrared energy is received and passed to an IR detector. Although sensor is shown positioned forward of first outlet and second output sensor may be positioned rearward to to the side of or between first outlet and second output . In one embodiment a capacitive proximity sensor may be used.

Sensor monitors a detection zone positioned generally below end face of pull out wand portion . In one embodiment sensor is oriented to monitor a different detection zone such as forward of or forward and downward of pull out wand portion .

Referring to pull out wand portion includes a plurality of touch sensors and . Touch sensors and are slide sensors which monitor the position of a user s finger along a corresponding region and of cover respectively. Additional details concerning slide touch sensors and are provided below and in U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 793 885 filed Apr. 20 2006 titled TOUCH SENSOR the disclosure of which is expressly incorporated by reference herein. Touch sensors and monitor a general region of cover . Illustratively regions and respectively.

In one embodiment cover includes indicia to indicate to a user the location of touch sensors and and a function associated with each touch sensor and . The function corresponding to the actions taken by controller based on the detection of a touch by a user. Exemplary indicia and the corresponding action taken by a controller relative to a mixing valve and or diverter valve are provided in U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 794 229 filed Apr. 20 2006 titled ELECTRONIC USER INTERFACE FOR ELECTRONIC MIXING OF WATER FOR RESIDENTIAL FAUCETS .

Cover further includes a window which permits the light generated by indicator devices such as LEDs mounted to a circuit board to be visible from an exterior of cover . In one embodiment indicator devices indicate a selected parameter of sensor . In one embodiment indicator devices indicate a current value of the parameter controlled by the input to sensor .

Tap sensors and may comprise conventional capacitance sensors configured to provide a signal to the controller in response to a user touching the corresponding tap region and . Tap sensors and may comprise capacitive touch sensors such as a Q Prox sensor manufactured by Quantum Research Group of Hamble United Kingdom. Tap sensors and may operate in a manner similar to that detailed in any one of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 325 927 filed Jan. 5 2006 titled METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR DETERMINING WHEN HANDS ARE UNDER A FAUCET FOR LAVATORY APPLICATIONS U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 324 901 filed Jan. 4 2006 titled BATTERY BOX ASSEMBLY U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 325 128 filed Jan. 4 2006 titled SPOUT ASSEMBLY FOR AN ELECTRONIC FAUCET U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 325 284 filed Jan. 4 2006 titled METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR PROVIDING STRAIN RELIEF OF A CABLE U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 326 986 filed Jan. 5 2006 titled VALVE BODY ASSEMBLY WITH ELECTRONIC SWITCHING U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 326 989 filed Jan. 5 2006 titled POSITION SENSING DETECTOR ARRANGEMENT FOR CONTROLLING A FAUCET U.S. Pat. No. 6 962 168 issued Nov. 8 2005 titled CAPACITIVE TOUCH ON OFF CONTROL FOR AN AUTOMATIC RESIDENTIAL FAUCET U.S. Pat. No. 6 968 860 issued Nov. 29 2005 titled RESTRICTED FLOW HANDS FREE FAUCET U.S. Published Patent Application 2005 0151101A1 published on Jul. 14 2005 titled CONTROL ARRANGEMENT FOR AN AUTOMATIC RESIDENTIAL FAUCET and U.S. Published Patent Application 2005 0150556A1 published on Jul. 14 2005 titled CONTROL ARRANGEMENT FOR AN AUTOMATIC RESIDENTIAL FAUCET the disclosures of which are expressly incorporated by reference herein.

As stated above tap sensors and are slide tap sensors. Referring to a side view of touch sensor is shown. Touch sensor is the same as touch sensor . As such the following discussion relative to touch sensor is equally applicable to touch sensor .

Sensor includes a base member having an edge surface or side . In one embodiment base member is generally rigid. In the illustrated embodiment edge surface has a non linear profile. In another embodiment edge surface has a linear profile and or a combination of one or more linear profile segments and one or more non linear profile segments. The profile of edge surface may be selected to match a profile of cover .

In the illustrated embodiment base member is a printed circuit board and edge surface is a side of the printed circuit board. The printed circuit board is generally rigid or stiff. Referring to an exemplary representation of edge surface is shown. Edge surface includes a central portion which is the material of the printed circuit board. Spaced apart top and bottom portions A and B are made of a conductive material such as copper. Spaced apart portions A and B form the capacitive portion of sensor . Spaced apart portions A and B are shown to coincide with a top edge and a bottom edge of edge surface . In one embodiment one or both of portions A and B may be offset from the respective edge of edge surface .

In the illustrated embodiment the copper of portions A and B are applied to the printed circuit board such that portions A and B are a part of edge surface . In another embodiment the copper is not a part of edge surface but is rather backed away from edge surface by an offset amount. In one example an offset amount of up to about five thousands of an inch. In the illustrated embodiment edge surface is the material of the printed circuit board. In other embodiments edge surface may be made of other materials.

Sensor includes a plurality of leads A F leads are on both sides of sensor which connect with copper portions A and B. These leads are coupled through resistors to two output wires A and B. Output wires A and B are coupled to controller which monitors one or more electrical characteristics such as capacitance between wires A and B. As a user brings his or her finger into the area of a portion of edge the capacitance value between wires A and B is altered. Based on the monitored capacitance value controller is able to determine the location of a user s finger along edge surface .

Controller may detect a rapid touch of an area of edge surface and or may track the movement of a finger as it slides along edge surface . In one embodiment controller may distinguish between 128 various locations along edge surface . As illustrated in in one embodiment touch sensor may have multiple regions associated therewith illustratively three regions . In operation controller is capable of distinguishing between a momentary tap in one of regions and and a continuous touch along touch sensor . The continuous touch is interpreted as an activation of a slide configuration of touch sensor such as to directly control temperature or flow. The momentary tap is interpreted as an activation of a tap configuration of touch sensor and corresponds to a given function. In the tap configuration regions and of touch sensor operate similar to touch sensors and . In one embodiment indicia are provided on cover to provide a visual cue to the operator of the function associated with regions and of touch sensor .

In one embodiment controller includes the functionality of a Model No. QT401 touch slider integrated circuit or a Model No. QT411 touch slider integrated circuit both available from Quantum Research Group whose North American headquarters are located at 651 Holiday Drive Bldg. 5 300 Pittsburgh Pa. and covered under one or more of the following U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 730 165 6 288 707 6 377 009 6 452 514 6 457 355 6 466 036 and 6 535 200 the disclosures of which are expressly incorporated by reference herein. In one embodiment controller utilizes PSOC CAPSENSE technology available from Cypress Semiconductor located at 198 Champion Ct. San Jose Calif. 95134.

In one embodiment shielding is used to improve the reliability and performance of touch sensors and which are in this embodiment in proximity to metal enclosures of the wand and to in effect make touch sensors and immune to water flowing through the wand. In one embodiment the shielding techniques used to shield sensors from water flow and to shield sensors from metallic components disclosed in U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 898 524 filed Jan. 31 2007 titled HANDS FREE FAUCET UTILIZING NON CONDUCTIVE MATERIALS AND CAPACITIVE SENSORS the disclosure of which is expressly incorporated by reference herein.

Referring to cover includes three holders and Holders and receive an edge of touch sensors and respectively. Holder receives an edge of circuit board . In one embodiment a wall thickness of cover in the regions corresponding to touch sensors and is generally constant. In one example the wall thickness is about 0.005 inches. In one embodiment cover is made of a polymeric material such as plastic which has been injection molded.

In one embodiment pull out wand is used with a base portion including additional sensors such as touch sensors and or proximity sensors. In one embodiment the base portion includes a faucet handle including a touch sensor.

In one embodiment controller is connected to sensors through a cable which is positioned along side waterways and . Controller is positioned below mounting deck . In one embodiment controller or at least a portion of controller is provided in pull out wand portion .

In one embodiment a faucet having a pull out wand may be upgraded. The existing pull out wand is removed and replaced with pull out wand . A solenoid diverter valve is included under the sink which is in fluid communication with an existing electronic mixing valve. The existing controller is updated to work with sensors of pull out wand .

In one embodiment an in water sensor is provided in pull out wand . In water sensor detects the presence of a portion of a user in the water stream output by water delivery device . In one embodiment water delivery device provides water at a first flow rate when a user is detected with one of proximity sensor and touch sensor and at a second flow rate when a user is detected with in water sensor . In one example the second flow rate is higher than the first flow rate.

In one embodiment water delivery device is a faucet and in water sensor detects the presence of the user s hands within an output water stream of the faucet. In one embodiment in water sensor is a capacitive sensor. Exemplary capacitive sensors for monitoring the presence of a user s hand in the output stream of a faucet are provided in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 641 574 filed Dec. 19 2006 titled MULTI MODE HANDS FREE AUTOMATIC FAUCET U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 898 524 filed Jan. 31 2007 titled HANDS FREE FAUCET UTILIZING NON CONDUCTIVE MATERIALS AND CAPACITIVE SENSORS and U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 898 525 filed Jan. 31 2007 titled SINK BASIN CAPACITIVE SENSORS FOR HANDS FREE ACTIVATION OF A FAUCET the disclosures of which are expressly incorporated by reference herein.

The pull out wand portions described herein may be incorporated into the water delivery systems such as faucets described in U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 794 229 filed Apr. 20 2006 titled ELECTRONIC USER INTERFACE FOR ELECTRONIC MIXING OF WATER FOR RESIDENTIAL FAUCETS U.S. Pat. No. 6 962 168 U.S. Pat. No. 6 968 860 U.S. Pat. No. 7 150 293 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 641 574 filed Dec. 19 2006 titled MULTI MODE HANDS FREE AUTOMATIC FAUCET U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 755 582 filed Jan. 12 2004 titled CONTROL ARRANGEMENT FOR AN AUTOMATIC RESIDENTIAL FAUCET U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 324 901 filed Jan. 4 2006 titled BATTERY BOX ASSEMBLY U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 326 989 filed Jan. 5 2006 titled POSITION SENSING DETECTOR ARRANGEMENT FOR CONTROLLING A FAUCET and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 326 986 filed Jan. 5 2006 titled VALVE BODY ASSEMBLY WITH ELECTRONIC SWITCHING the disclosures of which are expressly incorporated by reference herein.

Although the invention has been described in detail with reference to certain preferred embodiments variations and modifications exist within the spirit and scope of the invention as described and defined in the following claims.

