---

title: Nonlinear transmission line extraction systems
abstract: A dielectric-based nonlinear transmission line (NLTL) coupled to an adjacent waveguide. Energy in an input pulse to the nonlinear transmission line is concentrated into an electromagnetic shock or a series of soliton-like oscillations by the nonlinear properties of the NLTL. Energy from the electromagnetic shock or the soliton-like oscillations are transferred into the waveguide. A plate of the NLTL coupled to the waveguide can include an aperture or a series of apertures. Energy from the electromagnetic shock or the soliton-like oscillations can then be transferred into waveguide via an aperture or apertures in such a way that forward and/or backward guided electromagnetic waves are generated in the waveguide. The waveguide can contain at a nonlinear magnetic material, a dielectric material, a slow wave structure, or a metamaterial. The NLTL can include nonlinear dielectric elements such as a periodic array interspersed with linear dielectric elements.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09281809&OS=09281809&RS=09281809
owner: The UNITED STATES OF AMERICA AS REPRESENTED BY THE SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
number: 09281809
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120510
---
The conditions under which this invention was made are such as to entitle the Government of the United States under paragraph I of Executive Order 10096 as represented by the Secretary of the Air Force to the entire right title and interest therein including foreign rights.

The present invention generally related to the extraction of electromagnetic energy from nonlinear transmission lines and more particularly to systems providing the extraction of electromagnetic energy from a nonlinear dielectric based nonlinear transmission line to an adjacent waveguide via an aperture or series of apertures.

Nonlinear transmission line based systems are known. For example U.S. Patent Applications 2007 0152875A1 2009 0051468A1 and U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 319 665 5 923 227 7 170 444 and 7 450 059 derive the majority of their nonlinear properties from nonlinear magnetic materials. U.S. patent application 200410227581A1 describes nonlinear transmission lines that derive the majority of their nonlinear behavior from nonlinear dielectrics. Inventions further described by U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 023 574 5 804 921 and 6 538 525 utilize discrete packaged circuit elements such as varactors to create the nonlinearity of the nonlinear transmission line.

Prior nonlinear transmission line based systems derive the majority of their nonlinear properties from nonlinear magnetic materials nonlinear dielectrics or utilize different energy extraction methods than those addressed by the present invention and fall short in their ability to extract power from nonlinear transmission lines when compared to the present invention. The present invention can provide advantages over the current state of the art including power extraction can be performed over the entire length of the nonlinear transmission line instead of just at the nonlinear transmission line output terminals it does not require the formation of soliton like oscillations in the nonlinear transmission line to generate RF output from the device output RF is not limited by the cutoff frequency of the nonlinear transmission line and output RF pulses can be much longer than the input pulse to the nonlinear transmission line.

It is a feature of the present invention is to provide the ability to extract power from a nonlinear transmission line NLTL e.g. dispersive line or shock line and generate a time varying electromagnetic wave in an adjacent waveguide guided wave structure or antenna .

It is another feature of the present invention to provide the ability to generate and extract electromagnetic energy from a NLTL into an adjacent waveguide at frequencies beyond the cutoff frequencies of the NLTL.

According to one aspect of the present invention there is provided a NLTL. This NLTL may attribute its nonlinear electromagnetic behavior to a nonlinear dielectric element or series of elements such as ferroelectric or anti ferroelectric ceramic slabs or to a combination of nonlinear magnetic and nonlinear dielectric elements an example of a nonlinear magnetic element would be a ferromagnetic bead or toroid . When an electromagnetic waveform is injected into the NLTL the nonlinear properties of the line can form a portion of the waveform into an electromagnetic shock. This shock may or may not be accompanied by a series of soliton like oscillations depending on the dispersive properties of the NLTL. Energy contained in the shock and or soliton like oscillations can then be extracted from the NLTL via an aperture or a series of apertures. An aperture can be any break in a conductive boundary near to or surrounding the NLTL that allows electromagnetic energy to pass from NLTL to the surrounding area.

According to another aspect of the present invention the NLTL can be coupled to an adjacent waveguide via an aperture or a series of apertures in the boundary between the NLTL and the waveguide. The adjacent waveguide can contain linear or nonlinear dielectrics mechanical slow wave structures or metamaterials to modify the properties of the wave or waves generated by the transfer of energy from the NLTL line via the apertures.

This invention can also provide the following additional advantages over the current state of the art power extraction can be performed over the entire length of the NLTL instead of just at the NLTL output terminals the formation of soliton like oscillations in the NLTL is not necessary to generate RF output from the device as is required in current devices the output RF is not limited by the cutoff frequency of the NLTL as it is current devices the output RF pulse can be much longer than the input pulse to the NLTL.

These and other features and advantages of the present invention will become more apparent from details disclosed in the following specification where preferred embodiments of the invention are described.

Referring to labeled as Prior Art plots illustrating relative permittivity as a function of applied electric field and plots describing relative permittivity as a function of applied electric field are given for four general types of types of dielectrics relevant to the present invention. In linear dielectrics the relative permittivity of the material is independent of the applied electric field. In paraelectrics and ferroelectrics the relative permittivity of the material drops as the applied electric field is increased. The relative permittivity of antiferroelectric materials increases as a function of applied electric field up to a threshold value after which increases in electric field cause a reduction in the relative permittivity of the material.

Referring to a drawing of a NLTL shock line is provided. The NLTL shock line can be formed from a parallel plate waveguide consisting of two metal plates with the region between them filled with a nonlinear dielectric . The nonlinear dielectric can be a paraelectric or ferroelectric material. The plot shown in the drawing below the NLTL shock line illustrates how example input and output pulses from the shock line can behave. When the relatively slow rise time input pulse is injected into the shock line the higher voltage middle portion results in higher amplitude applied electric field between the plates than exists at the leading and trailing edges of the pulse. Due to the aforementioned electrical properties of the paraelectric or ferroelectric materials the higher voltage mid portion of the pulse can travel faster down the line than does the leading or trailing edges of the pulse. The result of this nonlinear process is that electromagnetic energy is concentrated in the leading edge of the voltage pulse as it is distorted into the output pulse having a shock front at the leading edge. In the case that an anti ferroelectric dielectric was used the high voltage portion of the input pulse would move more slowly than the leading and trailing edges thus forming an electromagnetic shock at the trailing edge of the output pulse. It is important to note that the geometry of a NLTL shock line can be more complex than a parallel plate waveguide .

Referring to a drawing of a dispersive NLTL is provided. The dispersive NLTL can be formed from a parallel plate waveguide including two metal plates with the region between them filled with a series of alternating regions of a linear dielectric such as air and a nonlinear dielectric . The nonlinear dielectric can be a paraelectric or ferroelectric material. The included plot illustrates example input and output pulses from the NLTL . When the relatively slow rise time input pulse is injected into the NLTL the higher voltage middle portion results in a higher amplitude applied electric field between the plates than exists at the leading and trailing edges of the pulse. Due to a combination of the aforementioned electrical properties of the paraelectric or ferroelectric materials and the periodic spacing of the linear dielectric sections and nonlinear dielectric sections within the NLTL the input pulse can break up into a series of soliton like oscillations. These soliton like oscillations are visible in the output pulse . If the nonlinear dielectric sections of this NLTL were to be made of antiferroelectric material the oscillations could be formed at the trailing edge of the pulse.

Referring to a perspective drawing of an NLTL is provided. The NLTL includes a parallel plate shock line similar to the paraelectric NLTL shock line described in joined to an adjacent waveguide which can be an air filled parallel plate waveguide as shown in the drawing. The waveguide includes a series of apertures formed in the metal plate that serves as a boundary between the NLTL represented by the plate shock line and the waveguide .

Referring to an alternate embodiment for an NLTL is illustrated. provides a conceptual plot of an electromagnetic shock traveling through a section of a NLTL shock line containing no apertures. As previously described in and shown in the plot and conceptual drawing as the voltage pulse travels down the NLTL shock line energy is concentrated into an electromagnetic shock at the leading edge of the voltage pulse. The electromagnetic shock front traveling down the NLTL shock line has not yet reached the apertures which will allow energy transfer from the shock to the adjacent waveguide .

It is important to note that the previously presented example describes only very simple embodiments of the present invention. The present invention can encompass any given device geometry wherein energy can be concentrated into an electromagnetic shock by a nonlinear dielectric based nonlinear transmission line and transferred into an adjacent guided wave structure via an aperture or a series of apertures. The geometry can be planar as in the given example coaxial or more complex. The term nonlinear dielectric based nonlinear transmission line refers to any NLTL that derives the majority of its nonlinear behavior from nonlinear dielectric materials. The adjacent waveguide may be loaded with various structures or materials such as dielectrics slow wave structures and metamaterials to tailor its dispersive characteristics to meet the needs of the user. If a series of apertures are used to extract power from the electromagnetic shock front into the adjacent waveguide these apertures can be either periodic or non periodically spaced.

