---

title: Portable hand held controller for amusement device
abstract: A method of improving accuracy of a database of amusement device locations is described. A plurality of amusement devices are deployed at a plurality of locations. The database of amusement device locations is populated based on the deploying. A server receives over a network, from a portable device, a check-in request. The check-in request is associated with one of the amusement devices, and includes geographic location information associated with the portable device at the time the check-in request is made. The server compares the geographic location information received from the portable device with the location of the amusement device stored in the database, and updates the database based on the comparing.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08924432&OS=08924432&RS=08924432
owner: AMI Entertainment Network, LLC
number: 08924432
owner_city: Wilmington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120926
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 539 423 filed on Sep. 26 2011 entitled Portable Hand Held Controller for Amusement Device the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Embodiments of the present invention relate generally to electronic amusement devices and systems. More particularly embodiments of the present invention are directed to a system for remotely interacting with an amusement device using a portable device and using the interactivity data to improve the accuracy of amusement device location information.

Amusement devices having electronic games for computers and touchscreens or other types of amusement devices are generally well known in the art. Amusement devices such as game machines which allow a user to select games from a video display are well known in the art such as those disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 4 856 787 Itkis U.S. Pat. No. 5 575 717 Houriet Jr. et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 5 743 799 Houriet Jr. et al. whose disclosure is incorporated by reference herein in their entirety and show a touchscreen for making a game selection from a menu of games. Such game machines or amusement devices typically operate upon input of currency e.g. coin token paper money credit debit cards or the like and are installed in venues such as bars restaurants airports shopping malls video arcades casinos or the like. Each amusement device usually includes a plurality of content choices including electronic games animations videos and audio files. The game choices may include card games sports games games of skill games of chance action games trivia games or the like.

Often it is preferable to allow players to interact with an amusement device deployed at a venue remotely. For example where a patron would like to request a song to be played by the amusement device it is preferable to allow the user to request the song without occupying the machine so that it remains available to be used by other venue patrons. Portable devices having wireless communications interfaces such as smart phones may be used for this type of remote interaction. However in order for the user to interact with a specific amusement device remotely the amusement device must be located so that commands may be sent between the portable device and indirectly the desired amusement device. Previously the only available information about amusement device locations was compiled when the amusement devices were deployed or serviced. This resulted in the location information being out of date and often inaccurate.

It is therefore desirable to allow users to interact with proximately located amusement devices. It is further desirable to improve the accuracy of amusement device location information based on interactivity data.

A method of improving accuracy of a database of amusement device locations is described. A plurality of amusement devices are deployed at a plurality of locations. The database of amusement device locations is populated based on the deploying. A server receives over a network from a portable device a check in request. The check in request is associated with one of the amusement devices and includes geographic location information associated with the portable device at the time the check in request is made. The server compares the geographic location information received from the portable device with the location of the amusement device stored in the database and updates the database based on the comparing.

In another embodiment a method of improving accuracy of a database of amusement device locations is described. A plurality of amusement devices are deployed at a plurality of locations. Each of the plurality of amusement devices is associated with a unique identifier that is accessible to venue patrons. The database of amusement device locations is populated with the plurality of locations at which the plurality of amusement devices have been deployed. A server receives over a network interaction data from a portable device associated with one of the venue patrons. The received interaction data includes indicia of an interaction with a unique identifier associated with an amusement device and geographic location information associated with the portable device at the time of the interaction. The server updates the database of amusement device locations based on the indicia of interaction and the received geographic location information.

In yet another embodiment a method of updating a database of amusement device locations is described. The method includes deploying a plurality of amusement devices at a plurality of distinct venues and populating the database of amusement device locations with the plurality of venues at which the plurality of amusement devices have been deployed. A server receives over a network indicia of an interaction with a first amusement device from a portable device. The server determines that the first amusement device is not associated with the correct venue name in the database of amusement device locations and transmits a request to the portable device to enter a venue name of the venue at which the first amusement device is deployed. The server updates the database of amusement device locations with the provided venue name.

Certain terminology is used in the following description for convenience only and is not limiting. The words right left lower and upper designate directions in the drawings to which reference is made. The terminology includes the above listed words derivatives thereof and words of similar import. Additionally the words a and an as used in the claims and in the corresponding portions of the specification mean at least one. Further the terms coin or currency should not be construed as limiting and can be used herein to mean all forms of coin and paper currency from any country as well as proprietary tokens game cards credit cards debit cards chits or other representative forms of credit and or payment.

Referring to the drawings in detail wherein like reference numerals indicate like elements throughout there is shown in a first preferred embodiment of an amusement device A. The amusement device A includes a controller U and a memory U. The memory U can be any known or suitable memory device such as random access memory RAM read only memory ROM flash RAM hard disk optical disk or the like. The amusement device A further includes a video display A that is operatively connected to the controller U. The amusement device A is preferably a counter top or table top apparatus but may be arranged in any configuration such as free standing floor standing table mount wall mount pole mount and the like without departing from the invention.

The amusement device A also includes at least one input component A that receives value in order to establish one or more playable credits. The value received may be at least one of currency coins tokens chits credits credit cards debit cards or the like. Although two input components A are shown the amusement device A may include any number of input components A to give a user options for payment for permitting multiple players or the like. Preferably the amusement device A is made operable upon actuation of the input component A for example the user may only select and play an electronic game once value is received at the input component A and or one or more playable credits are issued to the user. However free selections may be offered at the discretion of an operator of the amusement device A.

For convenience the amusement devices A B C will be referred to hereinafter simply as amusement device the displays A B C will be referred to hereinafter simply as display and the input components A B C will be referred to hereinafter simply as input component . 

Turning now to the operation of the amusement device the memory U stores one or more application programs such as electronic games a music or video jukebox program or the like and a system control program. However the one or more application programs may also be stored remotely. The controller U controls the touchscreen display based upon the system control program retrieved from the memory U and based upon inputs from the touchscreen display . As used herein the system control program refers to all of the software functions outside of the application program files including an operating system device profile display control input control sound drivers and the like. Other input devices which may be connected to the amusement device include a pushbutton s a trackball or touchpad a mouse a joy stick a foot pedal a voice recognition system a keypad or keyboard and the like. But preferably the input device is the touchscreen display .

The amusement device also includes a communications component such as an Ethernet port a wireless transceiver an infrared IR port or the like. Using the communications component the amusement device may communicate with other devices or file servers access the Internet communicate over wide area networks WANs or local area networks LANs or the like. For example the amusement device may connect with a second amusement device not shown using the communications component . The second amusement device optionally includes all of the same components and features as amusement device . The communications component is connected to the controller U and through the controller U to the memory U. The amusement device includes an operating mode and a setup mode. To switch from the operating mode to the setup mode when an operator is present at the amusement device a mode selector pushbutton hardware not shown is provided that is typically concealed from the users. The mode selector pushbutton may be implemented as a hidden software feature but preferably the mode selector pushbutton is a simple pushbutton that is disposed inside a housing of the amusement device . When the operating mode is selected a player or user is selectively permitted to access the application programs. When the setup mode is selected the owner operator is permitted to make system setup adjustments.

Users typically interact with the amusement device using the touchscreen display or other input peripherals keyboard mouse buttons etc . However certain services of the amusement device may be available to the user without physically interacting with the amusement device . In a preferred embodiment a user remotely interacts with the amusement device over a network. Preferably the network is the Internet and the user transmits service requests and other messages to the amusement device through a forwarding agent such as a central server local server hub router switch or the like. Referring to the user communicates with the forwarding agent using a portable device such as a smart phone tablet computer personal digital assistant laptop or the like. The portable device preferably includes a wireless communications interface for communicating using a wide area network protocol such as 3G WiMAX 3GPP Long Term Evolution LTE IEEE 802.11 WiFi and the like.

The portable device is configured to display one or more screens for interacting with the amusement device through the forwarding agent. An application configured to display the one or more screens on the portable device may typically be downloaded from an application store such as the APPLE APP STORE GOOGLE PLAY AMAZON APPSTORE or the like. Alternatively the portable device may communicate with the forwarding agent or the amusement device over the Internet by a user entering an IP address or website address corresponding to a homepage or web application for interacting with the forwarding agent or the amusement device . Due to its central nature the forwarding agent is typically easily located through a static IP address or website address. However it is more challenging to identify a particular amusement device that the user desires to communicate with. There are typically a large number of similar amusement devices deployed at various geographic locations each of the deployed amusement devices having unique communication addresses. Thus in order to interact with a desired amusement device some unique information about the desired amusement device such as its location serial number or other identifier must be known. If this information is known to the user it may be provided to the forwarding agent by the user. Otherwise the forwarding agent may suggest venues and or amusement devices as described herein.

Referring to a sequence diagram showing communications for checking into a venue having one or more amusement devices is shown. A user initiates the check in process by activating the application or web site for the amusement device network on the portable device . In response the portable device determines its geographic location. If the portable device includes a Global Positioning System GPS receiver the location is preferably determined based on the GPS coordinates. Alternatively the portable device may determine its geographic location by any other known method for acquiring geographic location information such as using signal triangulation techniques or requesting for a current address to be entered by the user . Once the portable device has determined its geographic location it transmits a request for venues having amusement devices near the geographic location to the central server .

The central server receives the geographic location information from the portable device and identifies venues having amusement devices near the received geographic location. The central server may use any of a plurality of techniques for identifying venues. Preferably the central server compiles a list of venues that are located within a predetermined distance of the received geographic location. The predetermined distance may be based on the general location of the portable device . For example in a dense urban area having many venues with amusement devices the predetermined distance may be limited to one 1 mile while in a rural area the predetermined distance may be ten 10 miles or more. However any other techniques for identifying venues near the geographic location of the portable device may be used.

The central server transmits a list of identified venues to the portable device . The portable device displays the list of venues to the user . An example of a list of venues presented on a portable device is shown with reference to . The list of venues is preferably presented as an ordered list based on the distance of the venue from the geographic location determined by the portable device . The list of venues may alternatively or additionally be presented to the user by displaying a map showing the locations of the venues. The map may be generated using an application programming interface API such as the GOOGLE MAPS API.

The user selects one of the displayed venues from the list of venues by clicking touching or tapping on the desired venue choice. In response the portable device may optionally provide an additional screen showing details for the selected venue as shown in . The details may include for example the number of other individuals checked in at the location and a map showing the location. The details may optionally include information about the amusement devices believed to be deployed at the venue such as whether the amusement devices deployed at the location are properly operating whether the amusement devices are currently being utilized and if so may optionally describe the content being played on the respective amusement devices . Additionally the details may include the content available to be played on the amusement devices . For example where an amusement device includes a music playback service typically known as a jukebox the details screen may include a listing of the musical compositions available to be played on the amusement device .

Once the desired venue has been selected by the user the user preferably presses a button to check into the selected venue as shown in . Returning to the portable device transmits the selected venue information to the central server . The central server then associates the portable device with the selected venue. While describes the portable device as being associated with the venue where the user has a player account for the amusement device network the central server preferably associates the user s player account with the selected venue.

Referring now to a sequence diagram illustrating communications for selecting an amusement device in a venue having multiple amusement devices is described. The central server determines whether the selected venue has more than one amusement device and identifies all of the available amusement devices at the selected venue. Where there is a single amusement device deployed at the venue all interactivity is necessarily performed with the single amusement device . However where there are multiple amusement devices the central server may automatically determine which amusement device the user will interact with based on considerations such as load balancing and the status of the various amusement devices . Alternatively the user may pick one of the amusement devices by interacting with it such as by selecting unique indicia identifying the amusement device . The unique indicia may be a barcode MAC address serial number IP address or the like. Preferably the barcode is a two dimensional barcode such as a QR code.

Returning again to the list of amusement devices is transmitted to the portable device and is displayed to the user . The user optionally reviews the status of each of the amusement devices as described above and uses the portable device to select one of the amusement devices to interact with. The portable device transmits the selected amusement device information to the central server which associates the selected amusement device with the portable device or with the player account of user . In certain embodiments a venue may be selected followed by an amusement device within the selected venue as shown in . In other embodiments an amusement device may be selected without first selecting a venue. Thus the processes of venue selection and amusement device selection of may be performed independently.

Referring now to a sequence diagram illustrating communications for remotely interacting with the selected amusement device is described. The central server requests the status of the amusement device . The amusement device checks its current status determines the services available to remote users and transmits the information to the central server . Alternatively the central server may determine the available services for the amusement device based on the received status information and optionally also based on information about the user such as that found in the player account of user . The central server then transmits a list of available services along with status information to the portable device to be displayed to the user as shown in . The user reviews the available services and selects one or more of the services using the portable device . The portable device transmits the selected service information to the central server . Upon receiving the selected service information the central server optionally updates the player account of user . The updating may be for example debiting or crediting an account balance based on the service desired. The central server then transmits a service request message to the amusement device . The communications between the central server and the amusement device may use any protocol but preferably are performed using a secured connection. Even more preferably the central server and the amusement device maintain a long lived HTTP connection that allows for pushing and pulling of data and reduces the need for periodic polling by the amusement device of the central server or vice versa . The amusement device receives the service request and fulfils it when possible. Where the amusement device is idle the service may be fulfilled immediately upon receiving the communication from the central server . However in other cases the service may be queued to be fulfilled at a later time such as where a song request is added to a playlist of songs requested by other patrons or user .

A wide range of services may be available to the user to be remotely fulfilled by the amusement device . The range of services depends in part on the capabilities of the amusement device the settings of the amusement device the player account of the user the capabilities and settings of the central server and the like. Generally the available services are determined based on the business judgment of an owner operator of the venue at which the amusement device has been deployed. Examples of services that may be available remotely include the aforementioned media jukebox displaying score information for games playable on the amusement device live look ins into games being played by other patrons or users on the amusement device demos of games available to be played on the amusement device multiplayer mode allowing the user to play games available on the amusement device against competitors using the amusement device and the like.

Operation of the jukebox mode of an amusement device will now be described. The portable device may display a listing of available songs to be played on the selected amusement device . The songs are preferably organized by artist album or the like and playlists of songs may be available for searching and or browsing by the user . The user may be allowed to create personal playlists of songs for easy access during future interaction with the selected amusement device or other amusement devices within the amusement device network. Additionally the central server may track the user s favorite songs and make those songs easily accessible to the user . When the user selects a song to be played the user s player account balance is debited for the amount the song costs to play. If the selected amusement device has a queue of songs to be played the user may be offered the opportunity to move his her song up in the queue by paying additional credits. There may be tiers of queues with increasing payment levels that allow the user to move the desired song ahead of songs in the lower tier playlists.

The interactivity data compiled by the central server from communications with various portable devices may be used to improve the accuracy of the database of venue and amusement device location information. Referring to a flowchart illustrating steps for updating the database of amusement device location information is described. At step a plurality of amusement devices are deployed at a plurality of venues in a plurality of geographic locations. At step the database of amusement device locations is populated based on the deployments as well as based on the location information provided by owners and or operators of the amusement devices and the venue owners operators at which the amusement devices are deployed. Preferably the database includes each of the deployed amusement devices with a unique identifier such as a serial number MAC address or the like. For each of the venues at which an amusement device is deployed a venue name and a geographic location is stored. The geographic location may be stored based on for example the street address or geographic coordinates of the venue.

At step a request to check into a venue is received from a portable device as described with respect to . At step the check in request is analyzed to identify one or more amusement devices associated with the check in request. Next at step it is determined whether the amusement device has been verified in a location database of the amusement device network operator. At step if the amusement device is verified the process proceeds to step and the portable device is associated with the amusement device . However if at step the amusement device has not been verified the process proceeds to step where it is determined if there is indicia of an interaction with the amusement device at the venue. For example the user using a portable device to scan a QR code of the amusement device or the user entering a serial number of the amusement device are indicia of interaction with the amusement device . When such an interaction is available at step the database of location information is updated if the venue to which the user is checking in matches the information stored in the database for the venue at which the amusement device is deployed. However if the information does not match the database is not updated and the portable device is associated with the venue and the database of location information is not updated at step . Once the location information for an amusement device has been verified by receiving the physical interaction information from the portable device the database may store information identifying the amusement device as being a verified location. Preferably the verification lasts for a predetermined period of time and periodically or randomly becomes unverified again requiring a user to verify the amusement device by interacting with it as described above. The amusement device may also become unverified when a complaint is logged to the central server from a user such as when the user has requested that the amusement device perform a service that is not fulfilled or specifically that the amusement device is physically not present at the location.

If at step it is determined that a geographic location of the portable device does not match the location information stored for the amusement device in the location database the location database may be updated with the new location information. Alternatively the new location information may be stored to be verified by the central server a central authority amusement device owner operator or venue owner operator or the like at a later time.

In a second embodiment when geographic location information for the check in request is available at step the location of the amusement device stored in the database populated in step is compared with the geographic location information received with the check in request. It is then determined whether the locations match or if the locations are within a predetermined error bounds of one another. If the locations match the check in request is fulfilled and the portable device is associated with the venue.

In the case where it is determined that the locations do not match the location information for the amusement device may be updated in the database. Preferably when the locations do not match it is further determined whether the portable device is located proximate to the amusement device . A plurality of techniques for making this determination are available. First it may be determined whether the user is attempting to request a service of the amusement device that requires the user to be present at the location. One such service is the jukebox music player as it is unlikely that the user would request a play of a song when he or she is not in the venue where the song would be played.

Second it may be determined whether the user has recently physically interacted with the requested amusement device . This may be done by determining whether the user s player account has been accessed from the requested amusement device within a predetermined amount of time prior to receiving the check in request. For example if it is determined that five minutes prior to receiving the check in request the user s player account was recorded to be playing a game on the amusement device it is likely that the user is still at the same venue.

Another technique may be to require the user to enter an identifier of the amusement device after determining the user s geographic location. For example the user may be requested to scan a QR code or enter a serial number of the amusement device . To encourage such behavior a bonus such as a credit or free play may be provided for doing so. When it is determined that the location of the portable device is proximate to the requested amusement device the database is updated in step with the new amusement device location information. The portable device is then associated with the venue at step .

In alternative embodiments where it cannot be definitively determined that the user is at the same location as the amusement device the location information associated with the check in may be stored without updating the location listed in the database for the amusement device . Thereafter when additional check in requests associated with the amusement device are received the central server determines whether the new check in requests have geographic location matching the geographic location of the first check in request. The database is then updated when the geographic locations of a predetermined number of check in requests match or a threshold necessary to update the location stored in the database is reached.

Referring now to a sequence diagram illustrating the communications for updating the database of amusement device location information is described. The portable device transmits geographic location information to the central server . The central server looks up venues near the received geographic location in a location database . The location database identifies venues near the geographic location of the portable device and returns a list of the matching venues to the central server . The list is transmitted to the portable device where a user not shown selects one of the venues as described above with reference to . The central server receives the selection of the venue from the portable device and if necessary e.g. if there are more than one devices at the selected venue looks up devices at the selected venue. The location database identifies matching devices and returns a list to the central server .

The central server then transmits a request to the portable device for an interaction with the amusement device located at the selected venue. The user uses the portable device to perform the requested interaction such as scanning a QR code associated with the amusement device or entering a serial number of the amusement device . The portable device transmits indicia of this interaction to the central server . The central server determines whether to verify the amusement device based on the received indicia and transmits a request to update the location database for the selected amusement device . The location database stores indicia of the verification of amusement device .

In another embodiment where location information is available the central server determines the proximity of the portable device to at least one of the matching devices and compares the geographic location information of the portable device to the location information stored for the device and or the venue stored in the location database . The central server then determines whether the geographic location information for the device and or the venue should be updated in the location database as described with reference to . If the location information needs to be updated in the location database the location information is transmitted to the location database by the central server . The location database then updates the location information for the device and or the venue.

In some cases a user may visit a venue having an amusement device that is not listed in the location database . The user may interact with the amusement device by inputting an indicia of the amusement device . The central server may transmit a request to the portable device of the user to enter the venue name of the venue at which the amusement device is deployed or to select the venue name from a list of possible venue names that are located near the user s geographic location. The list of venue names may for example be acquired from a points of interest database such as GOOGLE MAPS. The central server may then add the new venue and amusement device location information to the location database . Preferably the venue is added when the portable device has provided current geographic location information for the venue.

The gaming location may also have a central communication hub enabling the communication between all of the amusement devices housed therein with the central server . In this embodiment the central server may communicate with the central communication hub to perform load balancing of requests from multiple portable devices such that no single amusement device is overburdened with the remote interaction requests. In another alternative arrangement as shown in the gaming location may house its own local server which performs all of the functions listed above with respect to the central server and or the computing device for all of the local amusement devices . The local server may be housed in gaming location and need not be remote to every amusement device .

The amusement devices may be connected to their corresponding servers through conventional communication configurations such as a LAN WAN or the like. In one preferred embodiment an amusement device may connect to the central server via the Internet. It is thus understood by those skilled in the art that the amusement system is not limited to the arrangements described above and may include any configuration wherein a user account for obtaining playable credits is maintained.

The amusement device may also include other functionality and features such as music jukebox video jukebox multimedia player Internet browsing broadcast media viewing time based rental mode non prize tournaments prize based tournaments head to head competitions prize based lotteries ticket dispensing prize dispensing debit credit card charging phone card dispensing e mail photography placing customer orders communicating with other amusement devices and the like.

The amusement device may also provide for remote or local access for accounting and or bookkeeping purposes. The amusement device may include a local connector for uploading to a hand held or portable computer or removable memory for receiving accounting or other data. The amusement device may include accounting and bookkeeping screens accessible by an operator through set up screens and or through password protection.

It will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that changes could be made to the embodiments described above without departing from the broad inventive concepts thereof. It is understood therefore that this invention is not limited to the particular embodiments disclosed but it is intended to cover modifications within the spirit and scope of the present invention as defined by the appended claims.

