---

title: Implosion mitigation method
abstract: An arrangement and a method for implosion mitigation, and in particular a structural arrangement of a water vessel and a method thereof for mitigating implosion loads. The water vessel includes first and second end portions connected by a middle portion, with one portion structurally weaker than the others so that when the vessel experiences an overmatching load, only the structurally weaker portion of the vessel fails. The vessel may further include energy absorbing structures.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09032899&OS=09032899&RS=09032899
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 09032899
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121023
---
This is a division of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 423 390 filed Apr. 14 2009 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 322 295 hereby incorporated by reference.

The following description was made in the performance of official duties by employees of the Department of the Navy and thus the claimed invention may be manufactured used licensed by or for the United States Government for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon.

The following description relates generally to an arrangement and a method for implosion mitigation and in particular a structural arrangement of a water vessel and a method thereof for mitigating implosion loads.

Underwater pressure vessels are designed to withstand the hydrostatic pressure exerted on the vessels by the surrounding water. Additional loads may include impact or underwater explosions. Any combination of loads that exceeds the design capability of the vessel may cause the vessel structure to fail. If a pressure vessel is not completely filled then volumes exist that can collapse suddenly implode . If an underwater vessel implodes in close proximity to other vessels such as submarines adverse effects to systems or structures may occur.

When a pressure vessel implodes in water a potentially significant pressure wave results. This wave has an initial underpressure phase that is followed by a shock like overpressure phase. The underpressure results from the collapse of the structural boundary exposing the internal volume typically low air pressure inside the structure to the ambient water pressure. The shock like overpressure results from the collision of the surrounding water and structure against the vessel. As the structure collapses the surrounding water builds momentum as it rushes inward during the collapse. When the air volume reaches a minimum the velocity of the water is forcibly arrested and the water compresses resulting in a shock wave that travels back out into the water. Damage to nearby vessels may result. The prior art does not teach underwater vessels that are designed to mitigate implosion loads.

In one aspect the invention is a vessel for implosion mitigation. In this aspect the vessel has a first end portion and a second end portion. The vessel also has a middle portion connecting the first end portion to the second end portion. According to the invention one of the first end portion and the middle portion is structurally weaker than the other portions so that under an overmatching load only one of the first end portion and the middle portion fails.

In another aspect the invention is a method of implosion mitigation in an underwater environment at a depth at which the existing pressure load is an overmatching load. According to the invention the overmatching load is a hydrostatic load an impact load an explosion load or combinations thereof. The method includes the providing of a vessel and the controlling of the failure mode of the vessel. In this aspect the failure mode is controlled by providing a predetermined fracture portion of the vessel wherein only the predetermined fracture portion fails at the hydrostatic buckling pressure. Thus allowing surrounding water into the vessel primarily via the predetermined fracture portion.

In situations in which the vessel is submerged and experiences a failure by buckling or fracturing for example the vessel is designed to mitigate any resulting implosion load. Implosion load mitigation is achieved by controlling the failure mode of the vessel in a manner that minimizes and dissipates the energy of the inflowing water and the resulting loads shock waves after the vessel buckles. According to an embodiment of the invention one of the end portions and is designed to fail before the other end portion and the middle portion . Thus for example end portion may be structurally weaker than end portion and middle portion . According to this exemplary embodiment when the vessel experiences failure due to an overmatching load end portion buckles and ruptures whereas portions and are able to withstand the overmatching load. Thus for example when the end portion is a stiffened dome as shown in the end portion may be designed to tear or invert. Or for example when the end portion is a cone the end portion may be designed to fail due to general instability axisymmetric interframe buckling asymmetric interframe buckling multiwave buckling or local frame instability or combinations thereof.

It should be noted that the vessel may be structured so that the middle portion fails first. When the middle portion is a cylinder failure may occur via an axisymmetric mode asymmetric mode multiwave mode a general instability mode or combinations of these modes. are graphical illustrations comparing pressure measurements and associated energy calculations for a dome first collapsed vessel model to a cylinder first collapsed vessel model. A dome first collapsed vessel model may refer to a two dome cylindrical vessel as illustrated in in which only one of the dome end portions or fails under a loading as outlined above. A cylinder first collapsed vessel model may refer to a two dome cylindrical vessel as illustrated in in which only the cylindrical middle portion is designed to fail under a loading. It should be noted that reflect measurements for a vessel in which the dome portions and are hemispheres. During an implosion event as shown in the surging pressure wave is reduced more efficiently by using a dome first collapsed vessel as compared to the cylinder first vessel. shows the results for the dome first vessel model as a solid line and the results for the cylinder first vessel model as a dotted line. shows during an implosion event that the dome first vessel model produces significantly less energy as compared to the cylinder first vessel model. shows the results for the dome first vessel model as a solid line and the results for the cylinder first vessel model as a dotted line. Even though the dome first vessel model appears to be more efficient both designs may be used to mitigate an implosion load.

The energy absorbing structure shown in may comprise the entire vessel frame of the high resistance portions and segments of the vessel frame or one or more layers of the frame . The energy absorbing structures may be plastics or metals such as aluminum and the like for example composites and combinations thereof. The energy absorbing structure may be a coated layer on the frame . According to an embodiment the coated layer may be an explosive resistant coating ERC pumice foams or the like. When a predetermined fracture portion such as portion fails under an overmatching load the energy of the inflowing surrounding water is dissipated by the energy absorbing structure . The resulting pressure waves are also reduced.

According to an embodiment of the invention the energy absorbing structure is one or more impedance mismatched layers. The impedance mismatched layers may be positioned at the frame of the vessel . The impedance mismatched layers may be located adjacent to the energy absorbing structure which as outlined above may be the entire frame or portions thereof. shows the impedance mismatched layers located internally but the layers may also be positioned externally. The impedance mismatched layers may include sandwich structures honeycomb structures or the like. Alternatively the impedance mismatched layers may comprise the actual frame of the vessel . In one embodiment the impedance mismatched layers may be formed by providing a coating on the frame . In impedance mismatched layers the mismatch of impedance between the layers governs the degree of energy exchange. When a predetermined fracture portion such as portion fails the impedance mismatched layers tend to concentrate shock energy within the vessel for longer periods thereby inhibiting energy surges from exiting the vessel and generally reducing energy transmission to the area surrounding the vessel.

According to an embodiment the energy absorbing structure is one or more volume reduction structures. The volume reduction structures may be any desired structure that occupies space within the vessel . Volume reduction structures may include structures that are provided within the vessel solely for the purpose of reducing the volume within the vessel . Volume reduction structures may also include vessel structures such as a fuel tank an electronics closet and equipment. The volume reduction structures may be any shape that disrupts the general water flow direction X of inflowing water which results from the failure of a predetermined fracture portion such as portion . When the predetermined fracture portion fails under an overmatching load the volume reduction structures reduce the internal volume thereby reducing the potential energy of the system. The structures also obstruct the flow preventing the focusing of the inflowing water restricting any momentum build up and consequently reducing the kinetic energy.

As shown in the energy absorbing structure is one or more partitioning structures such as bulkhead walls and the like. The partitioning structures may be positioned at different locations within the vessel and may extend to produce two or more adjacent compartments. Each compartment may be airtight. The provision of bulkhead walls function to break up a larger implodable volume into more than one smaller implodable compartment. Upon the failure of a predetermined portion such as portion by fracturing or buckling each compartment implodes separately at a different time from other implodable compartments. This reduces the momentum and energy of the implosion due to the resulting turbulent flow associated with breaking through the bulkhead walls. Additionally the flow is non continuous and non focused due to the separate implosion events. For example in a vessel having several transverse bulkheads if each bulkhead withstands the initial overmatching load but subsequently collapses as a consequence of the hydrostatic pressure then the water jet formed by the initial inflowing of water will have stopped and only restarts when the bulkhead wall of an adjacent compartment fails.

As stated above a vessel may be structured to allow the middle portion to collapse before the end portions and . is an exemplary schematic illustration of a vessel for mitigating an implosion load according to an embodiment of the invention. illustrates the middle portion being structurally weaker than the end portions and with the dotted lines representing a structurally weaker portion. According to this embodiment when the vessel experiences an overmatching load the middle portion fails before the end portions and . The numbering in is similar to that of with like elements similarly represented. Although shows a vessel having dome shaped end portions and and a cylindrical middle portion as outlined above one or both end portions and may have a shape other than the dome illustrated. For example the end portions may have a conical shape a toriconical shape or a flat shape. The middle portion may also have shapes other than cylindrical such as frustroconical for example.

As shown in the energy absorbing materials and outlined in the description of are positioned within the vessel to mitigate the implosion load resulting from the failure of the middle portion . The vessel also includes vanes for directing the flow of the inrushing water. also shows a pressure regulator arrangement for regulating the pressure within the vessel . The pressure regulator arrangement is adjustable and may substantially match the pressure within the vessel to about the surrounding hydrostatic pressure. The pressure regulator arrangement may include one or more pressure generators for generating the desired pressure. Although shows two vanes and two pressure generators the vessel may include as many vanes and pressure generators as desired.

Step is the controlling of the failure mode of the vessel by providing a predetermined fracture portion in the vessel wherein the predetermined fracture portion fails under the overmatching load. When the predetermined fracture portion fails the surrounding water enters the vessel primarily via the predetermined fracture portion. As outlined above with respect to the illustration of according to an embodiment of the invention end portion may be the predetermined fracture portion. Therefore when the portion fails the other portions and withstand the overmatching load. As outlined with respect to the illustration of when experiencing an overmatching load the middle portion may be structured to fail before the end portions and . When the middle portion is a cylinder as shown the cylinder may fail in an axisymmetric mode asymmetric mode multiwave mode a general instability mode or combinations of these modes. The number of circumferential lobes as for the general instability mode is a variable. In the reduced pressure and energy associated with a dome first collapsed vessel model is compared to a cylinder first collapsed vessel model.

The method may also include the providing of the various implosion mitigation features illustrated in . For example the method may include providing the energy absorbing structures and as well as the vanes and the pressure regulator arrangement . For example the provision of partitioning structures such as bulkhead walls function to break up a larger implodable volume into more than one smaller implodable compartments. As stated above upon the failure of a predetermined portion such as portion each compartment implodes separately at a different time from other implodable compartments. This reduces the momentum and energy of the implosion because of turbulent flow associated with breaking through new structures that separate the implodable compartments as well as the non continuous and non focused flow caused by the separate implosion events. It should be noted that the features and may be superimposed on the vessel individually or combined to mitigate an implosion load. Therefore in one embodiment the vessel may include all features as shown in . As outlined with respect to the vessel may not include any features shown in . Alternatively in another embodiment the vessel may include only energy absorbing structures . In another example the vessel may include impedance mismatched layers and vanes .

What has been described and illustrated herein are preferred embodiments of the invention along with some variations. The terms descriptions and figures used herein are set forth by way of illustration only and are not meant as limitations. Those skilled in the art will recognize that many variations are possible within the spirit and scope of the invention which is intended to be defined by the following claims and their equivalents in which all terms are meant in their broadest reasonable sense unless otherwise indicated.

