---

title: Method and system for optimized access of a physical random access channel
abstract: A method for optimized access of a physical random access channel (PRACH) includes sampling a plurality of mapped zones associated with a base station. Each of the mapped zones has a plurality of endpoints. The method further includes determining a subset of disconnected endpoints in the given mapped zone where the disconnected endpoints are disconnected from a wireless network. The method also includes estimating a PRACH load based on the subset of disconnected endpoints. Additionally, based on whether the estimated PRACH load is a pre-determined factor larger than an original PRACH allocation, the method includes increasing the PRACH allocation to accommodate reconnection of the subset of disconnected endpoints in the given mapped zone.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08902742&OS=08902742&RS=08902742
owner: Fujitsu Limited
number: 08902742
owner_city: Kawasaki-shi
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20121008
---
The present invention generally relates to network device support and more particularly to a method and system targeting cognitive loading of a physical random access channel.

Wireless communications systems are used in a variety of telecommunications systems television radio and other media systems data communication networks and other systems to convey information between remote points using wireless transmitters and wireless receivers. A transmitter is an electronic device that usually with the aid of an antenna propagates an electromagnetic signal modulated with information such as radio television or other signals. A receiver is an electronic device that receives a wireless electromagnetic signal and processes the information modulated thereon. A transmitter and receiver may be combined into a single device called a transceiver.

Machine to machine M2M communications are engineered to communicate with little or no human support. M2M communications in large industrial or machine residential networks may require the connection of over 30 000 machine User Equipment UE devices per cell. Long Term Evolution LTE and or Long Term Evolution Advanced LTE A networks may be used as a fourth generation 4G wireless technology enabling communication between and or among all UEs and a base station e.g. Evolved Node B eNB .

In accordance with one or more embodiments of the present disclosure a method for optimized access of a physical random access channel PRACH includes sampling a plurality of mapped zones associated with a base station. Each of the mapped zones has a plurality of endpoints. The method further includes determining a subset of disconnected endpoints in the given mapped zone where the disconnected endpoints are disconnected from a wireless network. The method also includes estimating a PRACH load based on the subset of disconnected endpoints. Additionally based on whether the estimated PRACH load is a pre determined factor larger than an original PRACH allocation the method includes increasing the PRACH allocation to accommodate reconnection of the subset of disconnected endpoints in the given mapped zone.

In accordance with another embodiment of the present disclosure one or more non transitory computer readable media embodying logic is provided that when executed by a processor is configured to perform operations including sampling a plurality of mapped zones associated with a base station where each mapped zone includes a plurality of endpoints. The logic further configured to determine a subset of disconnected endpoints in the given mapped zone where the disconnected endpoints are disconnected from a wireless network. The logic is additionally configured to estimate a PRACH load based on the subset of disconnected endpoints in the given mapped zone and based on whether the estimated PRACH load is a pre determined factor larger than an original PRACH allocation increase the PRACH allocation to accommodate reconnection of the subset of disconnected endpoints in the given mapped zone.

In accordance with another embodiment of the present disclosure a base station for wireless communication is provided comprising a memory and a processor coupled to a memory. The processor configured to sample a plurality of mapped zones associated with a base station. Each mapped zone has a plurality of endpoints. The processor is also configured to determine a subset of disconnected endpoints in the given mapped zone where the disconnected endpoints are disconnected from a wireless network. The processor is further configured to estimate a PRACH load based on the subset of disconnected endpoints in the given mapped zone and based on whether the estimated PRACH load is a pre determined factor larger than an original PRACH allocation increase the PRACH allocation to accommodate reconnection of the subset of disconnected endpoints in the given mapped zone.

The object and advantages of the invention will be realized and attained by means of at least the features elements and combinations particularly pointed out in the claims. It is to be understood that both the foregoing general description and the following detailed description are exemplary and explanatory and are not restrictive of the invention as claimed.

Embodiments of the present invention and its advantages are best understood by referring to of the drawings like numerals being used for like and corresponding parts of the various drawings.

As used herein base station may refer to a transmission site a remote transmission site a Radio Element Control an Evolved Node B eNB a Baseband Unit a Radio Element and or a Remote Radio Head RRH . Base station may include any combination of hardware software embedded in a computer readable medium and or encoded logic incorporated in hardware or otherwise stored e.g. firmware to implement any number of communication protocols that allow for wired or wireless exchange of information in network . Base station may be operable to send control signals and data traffic to endpoints . Base station may use any suitable technologies or protocols e.g. Common Public Radio Interface CPRI to communicate with other base stations .

Base station may also be coupled to any network or combination of networks capable of transmitting signals data and or messages including signals data or messages transmitted through WebPages e mail text chat voice over IP VoIP and instant messaging in order to provide services and data to endpoints . For example base station may be coupled to one or more local area networks LANs wide area networks WANs metropolitan area networks MANs public switched telephone networks PSTNs worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX networks global distributed networks such as the Internet or any other form of wireless or wired networking. As an example base station may be coupled to a core infrastructure network which may include server via a LAN .

Base station may communicate with endpoints using wireless communication via one or more ports not expressly shown . Base station may communicate with endpoints using any suitable wireless technology including but not limited to Long Term Evolution LTE or Long Term Evolution Advanced LTE A protocols. In some embodiments base station may coordinate with other base stations to communicate jointly with endpoint .

Endpoint may be any type of wireless device able to send and receive data and or signals to and from other endpoints base station directly and or base station via one or more other base stations . Some examples of endpoints include desktop computers PDAs cell phones laptops VoIP phones wireless measurement devices wireless sensors and or Machine User Equipment UE . Endpoints may provide data or network services to a human and or machine user through any suitable combination of hardware software embedded in a computer readable medium real time processing system and or encoded logic incorporated in hardware or otherwise stored e.g. firmware . Endpoints may also include unattended or automated systems gateways other intermediate components or other devices that may send or receive data and or signals. Various types of information may be sent to or from endpoints . As an example endpoint may send identification data and status data to base station .

Network may have been initially designated for human use. However M2M communications also known as Machine Type Communications MTC may have emerged as market driven class of applications. M2M traffic patterns may be significantly different from human mobile traffic. During M2M mass event scenarios e.g. after a power outage scenario impacting most or all endpoints connected to base station the related network may be overloaded when the mass event resolves e.g. power is returned. Additionally network may be unable to identify particular endpoints that are involved in the mass event. In order to allow network to properly process mass triggered machine events last gasp function may be employed for some endpoints as the capability of endpoints to emit one last message when it loses power.

Further network and base station may be required to accommodate large numbers of endpoints in the form of machine UE devices e.g. up to more than approximately 30 000 devices per cell . For example sensor networks in industrial applications smart grid meters in residential utility applications and or smart home networks may include large numbers of endpoints . Network may include only machine UE devices in the case of a M2M network or network may be a mix of human UE devices and machine UE devices in a human machine network. During power outages or other mass event scenarios endpoints may be impacted and may lose power. Endpoints may generate transmission of a last message e.g. last gasp message LGM mass scale event triggered MSET device identification and or other signal. The LGM MSET signaling and or other signal may be sent immediately after a power loss or other mass scale event. The LGM MSET signaling and or other signal may be transmitted within a last gasp LG interval of approximately 50 ms to 500 ms immediately after the power outage or other mass scale event occurs defined by the ability of a device to retain power following a power failure. The LGM MSET signaling and or other signal may include information indicating that the power outage or other mass scale event has occurred e.g. that endpoint has experienced a power loss or other mass scale event.

The LGM MSET signaling and or other signal transmitted by endpoint may be sent using a Random Access Channel RACH backed by a Physical Random Access Channel PRACH . A PRACH may be a shared channel used for initial communication between endpoint and base station and for communication of unscheduled access related messages such as when endpoint exits sleep mode loses power attempts to connect to the network or executes a handover. Thus for example a PRACH may be used to transmit a LGM MSET signaling and or other signal from endpoint to base station across and or utilizing an LTE or LTE A network. If endpoint is unable to access PRACH following a power outage or other mass scale event base station may be unaware that a particular endpoint is no longer connected to the network and possibly not operating. Additionally when recovering from mass event scenarios involving large numbers of endpoints the access channel including a RACH PRACH may be overloaded e.g. when power returns due to a large number of endpoints attempting reconnection which in turn will be attempting to contact base station simultaneously . If the PRACH becomes overloaded when power is restored to endpoints then signals sent from endpoints attempting to reconnect to base station may collide and some or most endpoints may be unable to connect to network .

In some embodiments predefined endpoints may communicate and transmit signals to a primary endpoint also called a PRACH group candidate. The communication between predefined endpoints and the PRACH group candidate may occur using a different wireless technology and or network than the technology and or network designed to communicate between endpoints and base station . The PRACH group candidate may utilize the PRACH to communicate information regarding all predefined endpoints to base station . While this group access may reduce traffic across the PRACH between endpoints and base station endpoints may have a higher cost because they may be required to support multiple communication technologies e.g. support for communication with the PRACH group candidate and communication with base station .

System may allow for multiple input multiple output MIMO transmission where multiple antennas are used for transmitting and receiving wireless signals. Additionally system may be configured to perform Coordinated Multi point Processing CoMP to coordinate and combine the transmission of signals used in MIMO transmission. The CoMP processing may perform down link DL CoMP transmission in which multiple base units jointly communicate with endpoints and or multiple endpoints communicate with base unit .

Endpoints may communicate with base station using wireless communication via air interface using one or more antenna ports . For example endpoint may communicate with base station via air interface using antenna ports and . Endpoint may communicate with base station via air interface using antenna ports and . Endpoints may communicate with base station using any of a variety of different wireless technologies including but not limited to LTE and LTE A protocol as defined in the 3Generation Partnership Project 3GPP Release 11 or beyond. In some embodiments of the present disclosure endpoint may coordinate with one more other endpoints to communicate jointly with base station . In such embodiments endpoints may coordinate with each other to communicate with base station using a MIMO transmission scheme where multiple transmitting antenna ports are placed at different endpoints while one or more receiving antenna port are located at the base station .

For example endpoints may communicate with base station using a DL CoMP MIMO transmission as defined in 3GPP Release 11 or beyond. During such a MIMO transmission endpoint may wirelessly communicate a portion of a data stream to base station via one or more wireless connections between antenna ports and one or more antenna port of base station .

The components of endpoints and base station may comprise any suitable physical form configuration number type and or layout. As an example and not by way of limitation endpoint and or base station may comprise an embedded real time processing system computer system a system on chip SOC a single board computer system SBC for example a computer on module COM or system on module SOM a desktop computer system a laptop or notebook computer system an interactive kiosk a mainframe a mesh of computer systems a mobile telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a server or a combination of two or more of these. Where appropriate endpoint and or base station may include one or more computer systems be unitary or distributed span multiple locations span multiple machines or reside in a cloud which may include one or more cloud components in one or more networks.

In the depicted embodiment endpoints and and base station each include their own respective processor and memory and storage and interface and and bus and . Although a particular wireless communications system is depicted having a particular number of particular components in a particular arrangement this disclosure contemplates any suitable wireless communications system having any suitable number of any suitable components in any suitable arrangement. For simplicity similar components of endpoints and base station will be discussed together. However it is not necessary for these devices to have the same components or the same type of components. For example processor may be implemented as an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or chipset.

Processor and may be a microprocessor controller or any other suitable computing device resource or combination of hardware software and or encoded logic operable to provide either alone or in conjunction with other components e.g. memory and respectively wireless networking functionality. Such functionality may include supporting various wireless features discussed herein. For example processor may be configured to analyze data and or signals communicated between base station and endpoints via channels . Further processor and of endpoints may be configured to analyze signals and or data communicated from base station via channels .

In some embodiments processor and may include hardware for executing instructions such as those making up a computer program. As an example and not by way of limitation to execute instructions processor and may retrieve or fetch instructions from an internal register an internal cache memory or respectively or storage or respectively decode and execute them and then write one or more results to an internal register an internal cache memory or respectively or storage or respectively.

In some embodiments processor and may include one or more internal caches for data instructions or addresses. This disclosure contemplates processor and including any suitable number of any suitable internal caches where appropriate. As an example and not by way of limitation processor and may include one or more instruction caches one or more data caches and one or more translation lookaside buffers TLBs . Instructions in the instruction caches may be copies of instructions in memory or respectively or storage or respectively and the instruction caches may speed up retrieval of those instructions by processor or respectively. Data in the data caches may be copies of data in memory or respectively or storage or respectively for instructions executing at processor or respectively to operate on the results of previous instructions executed at processor or for access by subsequent instructions executing at processor or or for writing to memory or respectively or storage or respectively or other suitable data. The data caches may speed up read or write operations by processor or . The TLBs may speed up virtual address translations for processor or . In some embodiments processor and may include one or more internal registers for data instructions or addresses. Depending on the embodiment processor and may include any suitable number of any suitable internal registers where appropriate. Where appropriate processor and may include one or more arithmetic logic units ALUs be a multi core processor include one or more processors or any other suitable processor.

Memory or may be any form of volatile or non volatile memory including without limitation magnetic media optical media random access memory RAM read only memory ROM flash memory removable media or any other suitable local or remote memory component or components. In some embodiments memory or may include random access memory RAM . This RAM may be volatile memory where appropriate. Where appropriate this RAM may be dynamic RAM DRAM or static RAM SRAM . Moreover where appropriate this RAM may be single ported or multi ported RAM or any other suitable type of RAM or memory. Memory or may include one or more memories or respectively where appropriate. Memory or may store any suitable data or information utilized by endpoints or base station respectively including software embedded in a computer readable medium and or encoded logic incorporated in hardware or otherwise stored e.g. firmware . In some embodiments memory or may include main memory for storing instructions for processor or respectively to execute or data for processor or to operate on. In some embodiments one or more memory management units MMUs may reside between processor or and memory or respectively and facilitate accesses to memory or requested by processor or respectively.

As an example and not by way of limitation endpoints or base station may load instructions from storage or respectively or another source such as for example another computer system another base station or a remote transmission site to memory or respectively. Processor or may then load the instructions from memory or respectively to an internal register or internal cache. To execute the instructions processor or may retrieve the instructions from the internal register or internal cache and decode them. During or after execution of the instructions processor or may write one or more results which may be intermediate or final results to the internal register or internal cache. Processor or may then write one or more of those results to memory or respectively. In some embodiments processor or may execute only instructions in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory or respectively as opposed to storage or respectively or elsewhere and may operate only on data in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory or respectively as opposed to storage or respectively or elsewhere .

In some embodiments storage or may include mass storage for data or instructions. As an example and not by way of limitation storage or may include a hard disk drive HDD a floppy disk drive flash memory an optical disc a magneto optical disc magnetic tape or a Universal Serial Bus USB drive or a combination of two or more of these. Storage or may include removable or non removable or fixed media where appropriate. Storage or may be internal or external to transmission site where appropriate. In some embodiments storage or may be non volatile solid state memory. In some embodiments storage or may include read only memory ROM . Where appropriate this ROM may be mask programmed ROM programmable ROM PROM erasable PROM EPROM electrically erasable PROM EEPROM electrically alterable ROM EAROM or flash memory or a combination of two or more of these. Storage or may take any suitable physical form and may comprise any suitable number or type of storage. Storage or may include one or more storage control units facilitating communication between processor or respectively and storage or respectively where appropriate.

In some embodiments interface or may include hardware encoded software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication such as for example packet based communication between endpoints base station any networks any network devices and or any other computer systems. As an example and not by way of limitation communication interface or may include a network interface controller NIC or network adapter for communicating with an Ethernet or other wire based network and or a wireless NIC WNIC or wireless adapter for communicating with a wireless network.

In some embodiments interface or comprise one or more radios coupled to one or more antenna ports . In such an embodiment interface or receives digital data that is to be sent out to wireless devices such as base station via a wireless connection. The radio may convert the digital data into a radio signal having the appropriate center frequency bandwidth parameters and transmission power. Similarly the radios may convert radio signals received via one or more receiving antennas into digital data to be processed by for example processor or respectively. Interface of base station may be configured to perform similar operations via processor and antenna port .

Depending on the embodiment interface or may be any type of interface suitable for any type of network for which communications system is used. As an example and not by way of limitation communications system may communicate with an ad hoc network a personal area network PAN a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a metropolitan area network MAN or one or more portions of the Internet or a combination of two or more of these. One or more portions of one or more of these networks may be wired or wireless. As an example communications system may communicate with a wireless PAN WPAN such as for example a BLUETOOTH WPAN a WI FI network a WI MAX network an LTE network an LTE A network a cellular telephone network for example a Global System for Mobile Communications GSM network or any other suitable wireless network or a combination of two or more of these. Endpoints and and base station may include any suitable interface or respectively for any one or more of these networks where appropriate.

In some embodiments interface or may include one or more interfaces for one or more I O devices. One or more of these I O devices may enable communication between a person and endpoints and or base station . As an example and not by way of limitation an I O device may include a keyboard keypad microphone monitor mouse printer scanner speaker still camera stylus tablet touchscreen trackball video camera another suitable I O device or a combination of two or more of these. An I O device may include one or more sensors. Some embodiments may include any suitable type and or number of I O devices and any suitable type and or number of interface or for them. Where appropriate interface or may include one or more drivers enabling processor or respectively to drive one or more of these I O devices. Interface or may include one or more interface or respectively where appropriate.

Bus or may include any suitable combination of hardware software embedded in a computer readable medium and or encoded logic incorporated in hardware or otherwise stored e.g. firmware to couple components of endpoint and base station to each other. As an example and not by way of limitation bus or may include an Accelerated Graphics Port AGP or other graphics bus an Enhanced Industry Standard Architecture EISA bus a front side bus FSB a HYPERTRANSPORT HT interconnect an Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus an INFINIBAND interconnect a low pin count LPC bus a memory bus a Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus a PCI Express PCI X bus a serial advanced technology attachment SATA bus a Video Electronics Standards Association local VLB bus or any other suitable bus or a combination of two or more of these. Bus or may include any number type and or configuration of bus or where appropriate. In some embodiments one or more buses or which may each include an address bus and a data bus may couple processor or respectively to memory or respectively. Bus or may include one or more memory buses and may be specialized and dedicated multi threaded busses.

Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium encompasses one or more tangible computer readable storage media possessing structures. As an example and not by way of limitation a computer readable storage medium may include a semiconductor based or other integrated circuit IC such as for example a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific IC ASIC a hard disk an HDD a hybrid hard drive HHD an optical disc an optical disc drive ODD a magneto optical disc a magneto optical drive a floppy disk a floppy disk drive FDD magnetic tape a holographic storage medium a solid state drive SSD a RAM drive a SECURE DIGITAL card a SECURE DIGITAL drive a flash memory card a flash memory drive or any other suitable tangible computer readable storage medium or a combination of two or more of these where appropriate.

Some embodiments may include one or more computer readable storage media implementing any suitable storage. In some embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements one or more portions of processor or such as for example one or more internal registers or caches one or more portions of memory or one or more portions of storage or or a combination of these where appropriate. In some embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements RAM or ROM. In some embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements volatile or persistent memory. In some embodiments one or more computer readable storage media embody encoded software.

Herein reference to encoded software may encompass one or more applications bytecode one or more computer programs one or more executables one or more instructions logic machine code one or more scripts or source code and vice versa where appropriate that have been stored or encoded in a computer readable storage medium. In some embodiments encoded software includes one or more application programming interfaces APIs stored or encoded in a computer readable storage medium. Some embodiments may use any suitable encoded software written or otherwise expressed in any suitable programming language or combination of programming languages stored or encoded in any suitable type or number of computer readable storage media. In some embodiments encoded software may be expressed as source code or object code. In some embodiments encoded software is expressed in a higher level programming language such as for example C Perl or a suitable extension thereof. In some embodiments encoded software is expressed in a lower level programming language such as assembly language or machine code . In some embodiments encoded software is expressed in JAVA. In some embodiments encoded software is expressed in Hyper Text Markup Language HTML Extensible Markup Language XML real time OS RTOS or other suitable markup language.

Accordingly the above mentioned components of endpoints and base station may enable endpoints and base station to perform operations such as joint data link transmission according to the present disclosure. Modifications additions or omissions may be made to without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. For example any of the options or features described herein may be utilized in combination with the illustrated embodiments of and or any number of the other options or features also described herein as would be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art. As another example base station may include a real time physical PHY layer processor coupled to a fast access RAM and a permanent ROM memory. The real time PHY processor may be configured to process a plurality of signals stored into one or more subframes received from one or more endpoints .

In embodiments of the present disclosure communications system may be a wireless system that may support a M2M sensor network e.g. a smart grid . The M2M network may have the characteristics of being fixed or portable such that some endpoints may have no mobility attributes. The M2M network may be AC powered and may exhibit infrequent and or bursty communication and traffic patterns. As signals are sent across air interface the expected Time of Arrival ToA may be less than 5 seconds. As more endpoints are added to a M2M network a dedicated LTE or LTE A network may be necessitated. When a mass scale triggered event MSTE occurs e.g. power outage many endpoints may be disconnected from system .

As a consequence base station may employ a system and method to detect that endpoints have experienced a MSTE and then further identify the number location and or type of endpoints affected by the MSTE in order to take any appropriate remedial steps. A power outage or other MSTE with a longer duration may allow base station to identify more accurately aspects of endpoint . A short duration of a mass event such a power outage may limit base station identification of all aspects of endpoint . Remedial steps taken by base station may include preparing for recovery rerouting signals and or any other appropriate remedial measure. Thus as discussed in detail below and in embodiments of the present disclosure a load cognitive PRACH algorithm may be employed including device identification and M2M PRACH access optimization upon recovery.

In some embodiments following detection of an LGM MSET and or other signal the M2M network may further identify the affected devices utilizing the signal time and corresponding Time Advancing TA zones that may be based on the locations of the affected endpoints . The selection of TA zones may depend on the power outage or other mass event duration. When the affected endpoints may be ready to reconnect to the network the network may schedule and perform a contention random access targeting procedure. In this procedure the affected endpoint may attempt to access the network and may be unsuccessful. If the affected endpoint is unsuccessful it may utilize a scheduled contention free opportunity.

Generally M2M devices e.g. endpoints operating in a dedicated LTE M2M network may execute two types of access to an eNB e.g. base station . A first type of access may be termed random access RA procedure including a random access channel RACH backed by a PRACH based access on the physical PHY layer. An RA procedure may be utilized when endpoint connects to the base station . Transmissions may include for example un scheduled or scheduled transmissions of data following the exit of idle or sleep mode or powering on by a user or after an accidental power failure. Thus the RA procedure may target initial access synchronization following idle sleep mode and or handover HO procedures. Before the RA procedure begins endpoints may be in an initial status that may be either RRC IDLE status e.g. when endpoint may be in sleep mode to conserve power or NOT CONNECTED status e.g. when endpoint may be powered down or removed from the network temporarily. Endpoints subject to an RA procedure may migrate from either RRC IDLE status or NOT CONNECTED status to RRC CONNECTED status e.g. when endpoint may be connected and or transmitting information from the LTE network perspective. When a device is subject to a power outage or other mass scale event a PRACH access procedure may be triggered. Devices starting a PRACH access procedure may be in an RRC IDLE state from a network perspective but may have lost connectivity. In some embodiments as endpoints communicate with base station preamble signatures may be processed by base station within one PRACH subframe.

In one embodiment base station may include modules for zone mapping device detection zone identification device identification multiplexer and optimized access . Such modules may be implemented in any suitable manner such as in software hardware instructions functions applications shared libraries code sections data structures or any combination thereof.

In another embodiment zone mapping device detection zone identification device identification multiplexer and optimized access may represent elements of a method for performing LGM device or MSET device identification. Such a method may be performed by various computer programs models or any combination thereof configured to simulate and design systems for last gasp detection. The programs and models may include instructions stored on computer readable medium and operable to perform when executed one or more of the steps described below. The computer readable media may include any system apparatus or device configured to store and retrieve programs or instructions such as a hard disk drive a compact disc flash memory or any other suitable device. The programs and models may be configured to direct a processor or other suitable unit to retrieve and execute the instructions from the computer readable media. For illustrative purposes zone mapping device detection zone identification device identification multiplexer and optimized access may be described with respect to network of however these may be used for optimized access procedure or MSET device identification in any suitable network.

Zone mapping may be configured to enumerate endpoints such as endpoints in communication with base station . In order to track endpoints that may be subject to a MSTE base station or other device may assign endpoints to a zone in which such endpoints are located based on a time advancing TA parameter calculated by base station for each connected endpoint . Zone mapping may use an algorithm such as a TA Zone Mapping algorithm. The zone to which an endpoint may be assigned may include an ideal zone representation of the coverage area of base station . In one embodiment endpoints may be resident within a defined TA zone. In another embodiment endpoints may be relatively statically located providing consistency of information with regards to the TA zone associated with a given endpoint . Zone mapping may assign all endpoints connected to base station to specific zones positioned inside the geographical coverage of base station . Zone mapping may use any suitable method or mechanism of identifying endpoints as they are connected to network and of identifying the associated TA zone. For example zone mapping may record the status update of an endpoint that may change its location within the coverage of its base station and or record the logical status of endpoint from a connection perspective e.g. RRC IDLE RRC CONNECTED or any other suitable status. Zone mapping may record the status in any suitable manner such as in a database file or other data structure. Furthermore zone mapping may be based on the TA zone information employed by base station in order to estimate the time advance of the subframes sent out by endpoint in the coverage area. Zone mapping may be updated on a regular basis as endpoints TA zone information is updated by base station .

Base station may build a dynamic database based on the average TA zone values per endpoint . The database may have n rows where 

In the case in which all endpoints are located within one TA zone e.g. TA all endpoints placed on rows different from k may have null values. TAmay represent the subsection dynamic database built and maintained by eNB or equivalent functional network server or other suitable device. For each eNB eNB and eNB subsection a similar matrix may be generated. The subsection matrices may be combined to generate a full database of all endpoints associated with each TA zone and may account for duplicate detection of endpoint located at borders between TA zones. For example 

Returning to device detection may be configured to determine that one or more LGM or MSET devices have been detected and identified. In one embodiment device detection may be configured to determine whether a mass event such as a power failure has occurred based on received LGMs MSET signaling and or other signals. Device detection may provide a flag or other indication that a mass event has occurred. Device detection may be implemented in any suitable method or mechanism such as by comparing LGMs MSET signaling and or other signals received or determining that a threshold rate or number of collisions has been detected. In addition device detection may determine how long the mass event has lasted. For example device detection may be configured to determine the duration of a power outage affecting endpoints . In one embodiment device detection may be configured to update continuously such a duration. In another embodiment device detection may be configured to report such a duration upon conclusion of the mass event. In yet another embodiment device detection may provide a flag or other indicator that the mass event may be occurring or has concluded. Device detection may be configured to monitor continuously for arriving LGMs MSET signaling and or other signals from endpoints

Device detection may be configured to include a response to an attempted PRACH access from endpoint . For example base station may respond to endpoint with response that may include a Random Access Response RAR . The RAR may include L1 or physical PHY layer and Level 2 L2 signaling e.g. an L1 L2 signal. If the transmission from endpoint may not be properly decoded by base station due to PRACH collisions base station may transmit a negative RAR also possibly indicating a back off indicator BI for endpoint . A negative RAR may indicate to endpoint to wait and reattempt access later. The BI may include a parameter indicating the time delay before endpoint may send an additional PRACH transmission. Thus after a preselected or scheduled passage of time e.g. the BI time endpoint may reattempt access.

Device detection may be configured to output information in any suitable manner. In one embodiment device detection may be configured to provide notification of a mass event upon conclusion of receiving multiple LGMs MSET signaling and or other signals. In another embodiment after device detection has detected a mass event and additional LGMs MSET signaling and or other signals arrive device detection may be configured to notify other modules to reevaluate analysis conducted thus far. Device detection may be configured to store information regarding endpoints in any suitable manner such as in a file database or data structure that may be shared with other modules.

In one embodiment device detection may be configured to perform mass event duration control and monitoring. For example given a mass event such as a power outage device detection may be configured to determine whether the power outage is ongoing or how long the power outage lasted. Device detection may be configured to provide such information to for example multiplexer . Such a determination may be represented by T MSET .

Zone identification may be configured to estimate which zones such as TA zones associated with endpoints are affected by the mass event. In one embodiment zone identification may be based upon received LGMs MSET signaling and or other signals from endpoints . However LGMs MSET signaling and or other signals may be issued by endpoints from a given zone but may not be received by base station . Thus in another embodiment zone identification may be initialized by received LGMs MSET signaling and or other signals and then subsequently followed by the identification of the endpoints located in the entire coverage area for base station . If some zones contained no endpoints as identified in zone mapping then zone identification may be skipped for such zones. Upon completion of zone identification an identification of zones impacted by the mass event may be available. Zone identification may be completed in a shorter amount of time than individually polling or sampling every endpoint identified in zone mapping to determine whether such endpoint is connected or whether it has turned off in response to the mass event.

Zone identification may be configured to perform in any suitable manner such as in the steps illustrated in and in conjunction with . In one embodiment zone identification may be configured to sample known endpoints within a given zone. The known endpoints within a given zone from which zone identification may sample may have been determined by zone mapping . Such sampling may include polling a given endpoint to determine whether it has turned off while it was expected to be in RRC IDLE status. In a further embodiment zone identification may sample subsections of a given zone. In yet another further embodiment zone identification may apply sampling weights to the sampling of zones or zone subsections. The weight may be based on for example relative size of the zone or zone subsection or upon received LGMs MSET signaling and or other signals from a given zone or subzone.

Zone identification may be configured to output information related to zone sampling in any suitable manner. Zone identification may output a listing of zones or zone subsections associated with base station that include endpoints that are non responsive. Furthermore zone identification may output a list of zones or zone subsections from which LGMs MSET signaling and or other signals were received. Zone identification may be configured to store the results of its analysis in any suitable manner for use by other entities such as in a database file or other data structure.

Device identification may be configured to individually poll or contact endpoints identified in enumeration as connected to system . Device identification may be performed in any suitable manner following collisions measured over PRACH. In one embodiment device identification may be performed upon completion of zone identification . In another embodiment device identification may be performed in parallel with zone identification dependent upon the available resources of base station . Device identification may require significantly longer operation than zone identification . Device identification may require a longer time to fully page or poll all endpoints than the time of a mass event itself. By polling each endpoint device identification may be more accurate in identifying endpoints associated with the mass event than zone identification .

Device identification may be configured to time its operation. In one embodiment device identification may be configured to keep a running total of the time used in execution. In another embodiment device identification may be configured to estimate the total time necessary to execute the polling of all endpoints based on the number of endpoints known through enumeration. If a mass event such as a power outage has terminated before completion of device identification then device identification may be configured to stop operation and output the analysis results as determined by zone identification to optimized access .

Device identification may be configured to output its results in any suitable manner such as with a database file record or data structure. Device identification may indicate which of endpoints are connected and which of endpoints previously known as connected including RRC IDLE status devices are non responsive. In one embodiment device identification may be configured to output partial results of polling endpoints upon termination of the mass event. In another embodiment device identification may be configured to only output full results of polling endpoints . Device identification may be configured to poll endpoints in an order priority or selective basis based upon the results of zone identification . For example device identification may prioritize polling of endpoints in zones identified as experiencing the mass event.

In one embodiment device identification may be performed wholly or in part by base station or other device designated to provide this functionality. In another embodiment device identification may be performed wholly or in part by server .

Multiplexer may be configured to select from results of zone identification and device identification to output to waiting entities such as optimized access or server which may use the information to take corrective action in response to the mass event. Multiplexer may make such a selection using any suitable criteria. Multiplexer may take into account the time spent or to be spent on each of zone identification and device identification as well as the length of the MSTE or device detection . Multiplexer may receive information concerning the status of a mass event such as a power outage from a suitable entity such as device detection that a mass event has terminated. Such an indication may be denoted as for example T MSTE . Time required or elapsed for operation of device identification may be indicated as for example T DEVICE ID . Time required or elapsed for operation of zone identification may be indicated as for example T ZONE ID .

In one embodiment multiplexer may determine whether device identification has completed or will be completed by the time the mass event is complete. If device identification has not completed then multiplexer may select the output of zone identification to pass to entities such as optimized access . If device identification has completed then multiplexer may select the output of device identification to pass to entities such as optimized access . In another embodiment if the mass event is not over multiplexer may output interim results from device identification or zone identification . In yet another embodiment if neither device identification nor zone identification has been completed multiplexer may output a null signal. In an additional embodiment if the mass event has not terminated multiplexer may output a partial set of results as output by zone identification with an associated incomplete procedure flag.

Optimized access may be configured to take any suitable remedial steps. Such steps may include remedial steps to be taken by base station or server to correct problems created by the mass event or to efficiently reconnect endpoints to system . Optimized access which may present an orderly PRACH contention free procedure with reduced or no collisions may be performed wholly or in part by for example base station or server .

In operation zone mapping may identify endpoints as they are connected to system . Zone mapping may identify a location or area such as a TA zone associated with each endpoint and store the information. Zone mapping may repeat such actions on a regular basis in order to update zone mapping databases as endpoints may be connected and disconnected from network . The updating refresh rate may depend on the total number of endpoints connected to respective base station and or may be determined by a user. Device detection may be triggered in one embodiment by an increased measured collision rate over PRACH thus determining that a mass event has occurred. Zone identification may use the determinations of device detection to inform a sampling of zones in which endpoints were residing as they were connected to system . The sampling may include polling or paging a subset of endpoints recorded as resident within a given zone. Zone identification may determine which zones have unresponsive endpoints and determine that such endpoints are associated with the mass event. Sequentially or in parallel with such operations of zone identification device identification may poll or otherwise contact each endpoint enumerated by zone mapping to determine whether the endpoint is connected to system or not.

Multiplexer may monitor whether the mass event has ended. Based on the time of the mass event the time to conduct zone identification and the time to conduct device identification multiplexer may selectively choose the output of zone identification or device identification to describe which of endpoints experienced the mass event and may have issued an LGM MSET signaling and or other signal. Such an LGM MSET signaling and or other signal may or may not have been received by base station . Multiplexer may provide the selected output to an entity that may take remedial action such as optimized access or server .

Methods and may be performed in association with a base station such as base station of . Methods and may be performed separately repeated or performed in parallel for each one of the co located base stations using a sectorization as illustrated in . Each such sector may correspond to a given base station.

At step endpoints each designated as UE may be activated and connected to a wireless system such as system . At step the status for each endpoint may be assigned as connected and at step the status of each such endpoint may be assigned as idle mode in order to optimized endpoint power consumption. At step it may be determined that an entry for TA zone tracking may be created for the endpoint along with a determination of the TA zone in which the endpoint resides. For a given zone the endpoints determined to be connected may be grouped into a TA zone group. The TA zones may be created in one embodiment based on the TA information processed by base station for each one of the connected endpoints. A real time record of endpoints may be stored into a database file or other suitable entity. In one embodiment endpoint may include a mobile device that moves from one base station and or zone to another. In such a case step may be repeated to update the location of the endpoint. In another embodiment the endpoint may include a fixed point as part of an M2M network. Steps and may be implemented fully or in part by zone mapping of .

At step a mass event may be detected and device detection may be performed. The mass event may be detected for example as a result of increased PRACH collisions. Such a mass event may include reception of LGMs MSET signaling and or other signals. Step may be implemented fully or in part by device detection of . Step may be repeated as additional LGMs MSET signaling and or other signals are received causing a repeat of subsequent actions of method .

At step base station may determine if the rate of PRACH collisions defined as P exceeds a predefined allowable rate of collisions defined as k . Thus base station may determine P k where k is a parameter that may be determined experimentally and introduced in order to avoid sudden starts and or stops of steps in method . If the rate of PRACH collisions exceeds the predefined allowable rate of collisions then a mass group event or MSET may have occurred and method may proceed to step . If the rate of PRACH collisions does not exceed the predefined allowable rate of collisions then a power outage or other mass scale event may not have occurred and method may return to step .

At step a negative RAR may be issued to endpoints that are attempting to access PRACH but unable to reconnect due to collisions. For a limited number of times endpoint may attempt to access PRACH following a random BI associated with the negative RAR. After the limited number of unsuccessful attempts to reconnect endpoint may switch to synchronize on the last base station to which it was connected. For example after three failed attempts to connect endpoint may switch to tracking the primary synchronization signal PSS and secondary synchronization signal SSS of base station . The PSS SSS may include PHY layer signals that allow endpoint to synchronize in time and frequency with base station . Thus endpoint may have synchronized using the PSS SSS following multiple attempts to reconnect and reception of negative RAR signals.

At step network access may be recovered for endpoint and endpoint may monitor a paging control channel PCCH paging indicator PI . For example endpoint may attempt to connect with base station and may not successfully connect. If endpoint does not successfully connect it may not receive a positive RAR. Instead endpoint may receive a negative RAR or a BI. Following multiple attempts to reconnect and depending on implementation and or design characteristics a locked out or unable to reconnect endpoint may attempt to synchronize with the PSS SSS and monitor a PCCH PI to determine when to reattempt PRACH access. With a successful PSS SSS lock endpoint may search identify and listen to PCCH PI which may indicate to endpoint the appropriate time to attempt reconnection. Method may proceed to step . At step endpoints that are monitoring the PCCH PI and were previously subject to the mass scale event may be detected by the base station and scheduled for contention free orderly access as discussed in step with reference to . Method may transition to step of method shown on . The transition may include that endpoints after detecting a PCCH PI and scheduled for contention free access may reconnect at step as presenting in . Furthermore the transition may include that base station may initiate step as presented in after detecting a sustained increased collision rate as described in conjunction with step above.

In step the circular subsections such as a b and c of a row k of TA zones may be sampled. Step may execute partially or fully zone ID shown with reference to . Such sampling may include polling a subset of the endpoints recorded as resident within the subsection to determine whether a given endpoint is not connected. The sampling may be assigned weights e.g. stratified sampling such as d e and f for each subsection. The weights which may be determined experimentally based in part on the size of subsection of each TA sector may be used to increase or decrease sampling based on for example radial or angular size of the subsection or previously received LGM or other signal rate from various subsections. Any disconnected endpoints affected by the MSTE from the samples may be recorded as associated with the sector TA and subsection.

In step the row k may be incremented. If the row number k is still within the number of maximum TA zones m then step may increment the row number k. Otherwise method may proceed to step .

At step sectors TA zones or subsections associated with disconnected endpoints and thus possibly the mass event may be reported as ZFi. Step may execute partially or fully zone ID shown with reference to . Such sectors TA zones or subsections may be used to conduct remedial action if such information is reported by for example multiplexer of . Method may proceed to step .

At step additional sampling may be performed upon ZFi to provide additional information regarding the mass event. For each ZFi x samples may be taken. Such samples may resemble the operation of step wherein x number of endpoints known to have resided with the sector TA zone or subsection may be polled to determine whether the endpoints are connected or not. The results may be used to construct a TA zone list in step indicating sectors TA zones or subsections possibly affected by the mass event and further to what degree such a sector TA zone or subsection is affected. The zone list may be a modified version of the TA zone group determined in step shown on . The zone list may be stored in a database file or other suitable entity. In order to increase the accuracy of the TA zone identification steps and may be repeated until a desired device identification per zone has been achieved. Method may proceed to step .

At step base station may determine the disconnected endpoints in each TA zone or subsection associated with disconnected endpoints . In some embodiments endpoints may be essentially stationary and thus the TA zones with failures may indicate the approximate location of the mass event. Step may utilize the matrices discussed with reference to . For example base station may determine zones with faults ZF at step and sample X elements of ZFat step . In some embodiments the sampling results may indicate the disconnected endpoints and the corresponding TA zones ZF that may have the largest amount of disconnected endpoints . As discussed below with respect to step prioritizing reconnection of the disconnected endpoints may be based on TA zones ZFthat have the largest amount of disconnected endpoints . Method may proceed to step .

At step base station may estimate the PRACH load that may be necessary to reconnect each of the disconnected UEfor a given TA zone ZF. At step base station may determine if the estimated PRACH load for a given TA zone ZFis greater than or equal to a pre determined factor X times the original PRACH allocation to reconnections. The value of the pre determined factor X may be equal to a load of a known Slotted Aloha S Aloha access function. A S Aloha access function may be an access function in which data or packets may be sent at the beginning of a fixed transmission time or slot. The pre determined factor X may be the load G of the access function. The value of X may cause a resizing of PRACH in order to accommodate all detected endpoints in step and offering contention free reconnections.

If it is determined that the estimated PRACH load for a given TA zone ZFis greater than or equal to the pre determined factor X times the original PRACH allocation to the given TA zone ZF method may proceed to step and base station may increase the PRACH allocation to reconnection of the disconnected endpoints in a given TA zone ZF. In one embodiment the pre determined factor X to increase PRACH size may be one e.g. G 1 known as the maximum S Aloha access function for the given subscriber population waiting for access. For example base station may increase PRACH allocation to approximately 50 of the available preamble signatures in a particular frame to reconnection of the disconnected endpoints in a given TA zone ZF. This allocation may provide the disconnected endpoints in a given TA zone ZFcontention free access to reconnect. As example base station may allocate approximately thirty two of the available PRACH preamble signatures of a particular subframe to reconnection contention free random access of the disconnected endpoints in a given TA zone ZF. The remaining signatures of the particular frame may continue to be allocated to regular contention PRACH access for endpoints attempting regular access. Base station may assign all disconnected endpoints in a given TA zone ZFto the PRACH allocation designated for contention free reconnections. Following increase of the PRACH allocation method may proceed to step . Additionally if at step the estimated PRACH load is less than the pre determined factor X times the original PRACH allocation method may proceed to step .

At step base station may reconnect the disconnected endpoints in a given TA zone ZFbased on allocating contention free access to each endpoints in a given TA zone ZFand or other orderly method for reconnection that offers reduced or no collisions. Contention free access may be assisted by the utilization of a PSS SSS of base station . As noted previously with reference to step illustrated on the PSS SSS may include PHY layer signals that allow endpoints to synchronize with base station . Endpoints may have synchronized with the PSS SSS following multiple attempts to reconnect and reception of negative RAR signals. Following multiple attempts to reconnect and depending on implementation and or design characteristics a locked out endpoints may attempt to synchronize with the PSS SSS and monitor a PCCH PI to determine when to reattempt PRACH access. The PCCH PI may indicate to endpoints the appropriate time to attempt reconnection. At step base station may revert the PRACH allocation for contention free access and reconnections to the original PRACH size.

All examples and conditional language recited herein are intended for pedagogical purposes to aid the reader in understanding the principles of the invention and the concepts contributed by the inventor to furthering the art and are to be construed as being without limitation to such specifically recited examples and conditions nor does the organization of such examples in the specification relate to a showing of the superiority and inferiority of the invention. Although the embodiments of the present inventions has been described in detail it should be understood that the various changes substitutions and alterations could be made hereto without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.

