---

title: Buy now option from map view
abstract: Product search results may be presented to a user via a map view, with merchants selling a selected product displayed on a map. A buy now button may be displayed for a merchant within the map view, allowing the user to execute a purchase transaction directly from the map view.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09519926&OS=09519926&RS=09519926
owner: eBay Inc.
number: 09519926
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121205
---
The advent of mobile devices with location determination capabilities has sparked development of a wide variety of mechanisms to present search results and particularly for search results of a product to purchase. For example users wishing to purchase a particular product can perform a search on the product and receive results with the results presented in a split screen view having a list of stores carrying the product on one side and a map showing the locations of the stores on the other side.

The description that follows includes illustrative systems methods techniques instruction sequences and computing machine program products that embody illustrative embodiments. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide an understanding of various embodiments of the inventive subject matter. It will be evident however to those skilled in the art that embodiments of the inventive subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. In general well known instruction instances protocols structures and techniques have not been shown in detail.

Although the present embodiments have been described with reference to specific example embodiments it will be evident that various modifications and changes may be made to these embodiments without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the embodiments. Accordingly the specification and drawings are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense.

In an example embodiment a user performing a search on a product where the search results are presented in a manner that includes a map showing locations where the product may be purchased may be presented with an option to purchase the item using a button presented in the map view. Activation of the button brings the user either directly or indirectly such as through a log in page to a payment page or shopping cart checkout where payment options may be selected.

A data exchange platform in an example form of a network based publisher may provide server side functionality via a network e.g. the Internet to one or more clients. The one or more clients may include users that utilize the network system and more specifically the network based publisher to exchange data over the network . These transactions may include transmitting receiving communicating and processing data to from and regarding content and users of the network system . The data may include but are not limited to content and user data such as feedback data user reputation values user profiles user attributes product and service reviews and information such as pricing and descriptive information product service manufacture and vendor recommendations and identifiers product and service listings associated with buyers and sellers auction bids and transaction data among other things.

In various embodiments the data exchanges within the network system may be dependent upon user selected functions available through one or more client or user interfaces UIs . The UIs may be associated with a client machine such as a client machine using a web client . The web client may be in communication with the network based publisher via a web server . The UIs may also be associated with a client machine using a programmatic client such as a client application or a third party server or a mobile device hosting a third party application . It can be appreciated in various embodiments the client machine or third party application may be associated with a buyer a seller a third party electronic commerce platform a payment service provider or a shipping service provider each in communication with the network based publisher and optionally each other. The buyers and sellers may be any one of individuals merchants or service providers among other things.

A mobile device may also be in communication with the network based publisher via a web server . The mobile device may include a portable electronic device providing at least some of the functionalities of the client machines and . The mobile device may include a third party application or a web client configured to communicate with application server . Although only one mobile device is shown it will be appreciated that in practice there may be many mobile devices . That is as used herein the term mobile device may include plural mobile devices depending on context. In some instances herein the mobile device may be referred to as a user device. Further as is well known in the art the mobile devices and non mobile devices as well may be in contact with a GPS global positioning system or other suitable technology for determining the location of such devices.

Turning specifically to the network based publisher an application program interface API server and a web server are coupled to and provide programmatic and web interfaces respectively to one or more application servers . The application servers host one or more publication application s . The application servers are in turn shown to be coupled to one or more database server s that facilitate access to one or more database s .

In one embodiment the web server and the API server communicate and receive data pertaining to listings transactions and feedback among other things via various user input tools. For example the web server may send and receive data to and from a toolbar or webpage on a browser application e.g. web client operating on a client machine e.g. client machine . The API server may send and receive data to and from an application e.g. programmatic client or third party application running on another client machine e.g. client machine or a third party server .

The publication application s may provide a number of publisher functions and services e.g. listing payment etc. to users that access the network based publisher . For example the publication application s may provide a number of services and functions to users for listing goods and or services for sale facilitating transactions and reviewing and providing feedback about transactions and associated users.

The network based publisher may provide a multitude of feedback reputation aggregation listing and price setting mechanisms whereby a user may be a seller or buyer who lists or buys goods and or services e.g. for sale published by the network based publisher .

Also displayed in the map view is a store window . The store window appears when the user navigates a pointer over one of the locations on the map the store window can either pop up automatically when the navigation is made or may appear when the user clicks on the location using a mouse or similar input device . The store window includes the store name corresponding to the location the price of the item the address of the store the phone number of the store and the hours of the store . Also present in the store window are a get directions button and a buy now button . Selecting on the get directions button brings up a navigation screen where directions to the store are presented either graphically or textually or both . Selecting on the buy now button acts to activate a first step in purchasing the selected item from the selected store.

In various different example embodiments the first step activated by the user selecting the buy now button can vary greatly. is a screen capture illustrating example output of a method in accordance with an example embodiment of a first step of purchasing a selected item. In one example embodiment the buy now button causes output with the selected item to be added to a shopping cart of a store web site corresponding to the selected store. As will be described later this may involve executing one or more application programming interfaces APIs or pre established web links that open the store web site. Notably since the item has already been added to the shopping cart the user may select shipping options.

The result is that the user has easily purchased the item from a map view of a product search results web page.

It should be noted that there may be some instances where a local store does not have the item in stock. In such instances when the user selects on a buy now button for a store that is far from his or her location as defined by for example a distance radius configurable by the user then the user may be prompted with shipping options. These options may include for example picking the item up at a local store different than the one in which the store is ordered shipping the product to the user s home and shipping the product to a depot for pickup.

Configuring the buy now button may be performed in a number of different ways depending on embodiment. Many store web sites can be accessed via either APIs or by direct links. APIs are procedures of code that when executed permit data to be passed back and forth. An API for example may allow an end user device to directly access a database operated by a store to retrieve information for example and populate a web page .

At a user may perform a product search by entering a search query. This search query can take many forms including text based queries graphical queries or link based queries. At the web server acts to retrieve various search results from the product database based on the query. At search results are returned to the web server . At the web server forms a web page containing the search results in a map view. This may include presenting the search results as selectable locations in the map view with the selectable locations each including a buy now button. At the web page is returned to the web browser .

At the user selects a search result and a corresponding buy now button. At the web server passes the selected search result to the buy now execution module . At the buy now execution module retrieves a merchant entry from the merchant database the merchant entry corresponding to the merchant pertaining to the search result i.e. the merchant selling the selected product . At the merchant entry is returned to the buy now execution module . The merchant entry may in some embodiments be a data structure such as a record that includes information about how the buy now execution module should execute a purchase. Since each merchant web site may be different how the buy now execution module must process the transaction may differ greatly depending on the merchant. For example one merchant web site may use certain APIs and another merchant web site may use different APIs. Yet another merchant web site may use direct URL links in order to facilitate a purchase. This type of information may be stored in the merchant entry as instructions. At the buy now execution module may execute the instructions from the merchant entry thus facilitating the purchase of the selected item from the selected search result. In this embodiment an API call is made to the merchant web site to add the selected item to a shopping cart for the selected merchant web site.

At the user selects a search result and a corresponding buy now button. This causes the execution of the corresponding script which passes parameters to the specialized URL at the merchant web site thus facilitating the purchase of the selected item from the selected search result.

At a user may perform a product search by entering a search query. This search query can take many forms including text based queries graphical queries or link based queries. At the server application acts to retrieve various search results from the product database based on the query. At search results are returned to the server application . At the server application returns the search results to the client application . At the client application presents the search results in a map view. This may include presenting the search results as selectable locations in the map view with the selectable locations each including a buy now button.

At the user selects a search result and a corresponding buy now button. At the server application passes the selected search result to the buy now execution module . At the buy now execution module retrieves a merchant entry from the merchant database the merchant entry corresponding to the merchant pertaining to the search result i.e. the merchant selling the selected product . At the merchant entry is returned to the buy now execution module . At the buy now execution module may execute the instructions from the merchant entry thus facilitating the purchase of the selected item from the selected search result. In this embodiment an API call is made to the merchant application to arrange to purchase the item corresponding to the selected search result.

At a user may perform a product search by entering a search query. This search query can take many forms including text based queries graphical queries or link based queries. At the web server acts to retrieve various search results from the product database based on the query. At search results are returned to the web server . At the web server requests merchant entries for each merchant corresponding to a returned search result from the merchant database . At the merchant entries are returned. At the web server returns information necessary for at the web browser to display the search results in a map view. This may include presenting the search results as selectable locations in the map view with the selectable locations each including a buy now button and the buy now button for each selectable location having a script associated with it that is based on the information from the corresponding merchant entry. For example the merchant entry for a particular merchant may indicate a certain specialized URL is utilized when the buy now button is clicked. This specialized URL then may be part of the script associated with any search results pertaining to that particular merchant. At the user selects a search result and a corresponding buy now button. This causes the execution of the corresponding script which passes parameters to the specialized URL at the merchant web site thus facilitating the purchase of the selected item from the selected search result.

The buy now button may be formed using the merchant information for the merchant identified for the corresponding search result and when selected causes a purchase transaction to be initiated on a merchant web site.

At the purchase command is received. At merchant information for one or more of the identified merchants from the search results is retrieved from a merchant database. At a purchase transaction may be initiated on a merchant web site using the merchant information.

At a selection of a buy now button is received. At a purchase from a merchant associated with the merchant information is initiated by executing the purchase instructions contained in the merchant information.

At a selection of a buy now button is received. At a purchase from a merchant associated with the merchant information is initiated by for example sending instructions to a buy now execution module.

The example computer system includes a processor e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU or both a main memory and a static memory which communicate with each other via a bus . The computer system may further include a video display unit e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD or a cathode ray tube CRT . The computer system also includes an alphanumeric input device e.g. a keyboard a cursor control device e.g. a mouse a disk drive unit a signal generation device e.g. a speaker and a network interface device .

The disk drive unit includes a machine readable medium on which is stored one or more sets of instructions e.g. software embodying any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The software may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory static memory and or within the processor during execution thereof by the computer system the main memory static memory and the processor also constituting machine readable media.

The software may further be transmitted or received over a network via the network interface device .

While the machine readable medium is shown in an example embodiment to be a single medium the term machine readable medium should be taken to include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more sets of instructions. The term machine readable medium shall also be taken to include any medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying a set of instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the present invention. The term machine readable medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories optical and magnetic media.

Although the present invention has been described with reference to specific example embodiments it will be evident that various modifications and changes may be made to these embodiments without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the specification and drawings are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense.

The Abstract of the Disclosure is provided to comply with 107 C.F.R. 1.72 b requiring an abstract that will allow the reader to quickly ascertain the nature of the technical disclosure. It is submitted with the understanding that it will not be used to interpret or limit the scope or meaning of the claims. In addition in the foregoing Detailed Description it can be seen that various features are grouped together in a single embodiment for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure. This method of disclosure is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed embodiments require more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather as the following claims reflect inventive subject matter lies in less than all features of a single disclosed embodiment. Thus the following claims are hereby incorporated into the Detailed Description with each claim standing on its own as a separate embodiment.

