---

title: Methods and systems for providing an electronic account to a customer
abstract: An electronic account is provided to a customer to enable the customer to access electronic services, such as e-mail and electronic transactions. The electronic account links an electronic address of the customer to a physical address of the customer. Using the electronic account, electronic services can be provided to the customer at either the electronic or physical address, or both. The services can be both secure and non-secure and can be provided by any service provider, such as an online merchant, a government agency, or a bank.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09363219&OS=09363219&RS=09363219
owner: The United States Postal Service
number: 09363219
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121218
---
The present application is a continuation and claims the priority benefit of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 809 581 filed Mar. 16 2001 claims the priority benefit of U.S. provisional application No. 60 189 983 filed Mar. 17 2001 the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention relates to systems and methods for providing electronic communications to a customer. More particularly the invention relates to systems and methods for providing an electronic account and other services to a customer by linking the customer s electronic address to a physical address where the customer receives physical mail.

The United States Postal Service USPS is an independent government agency that provides mail delivery and other services to the public. The USPS is widely recognized as a safe and reliable means for sending and receiving mail. With the steady growth of electronic communication and commerce consumers and businesses need a secure way to communicate and conduct business electronically. Without trustworthy channels of communication many potential participants in electronic commerce are unwilling to send sensitive information e.g. credit card numbers electronically thus limiting the utility of electronic commerce to all individuals. Electronic mail or e mail is a well known means of communication for individuals and businesses with access to computers and Internet connections.

When a user establishes an account with an e mail service provider e.g. America Online or Hotmail the user is assigned a unique e mail address e.g. joesmith aol.com. Another individual can send a message to the user by entering the user s e mail address along with the message and sending it via the Internet. E mail can provide almost instant message delivery among individuals and businesses over vast distances for very little or no cost. E mail also presents an opportunity for businesses to advertise to potential customers in a new way e.g. by sending bulk advertisements via e mail.

Despite the advantages of e mail there are several drawbacks. Because e mail is received and viewed electronically e mail does not reach those who are not online. In this way e mail contributes to the so called technology gap between individuals with access to computers and computer technology and individuals who cannot afford or who do not understand computers and computer technology.

Additionally the simplicity and low cost of e mail make it an easy vehicle for unwanted messages e.g unsolicited advertisements or spam. Both individuals and businesses demand the capability to inhibit the receipt of unwanted e mail. Furthermore e mail messages are also insecure and can be intercepted en route by unknown third parties. Businesses and consumers who communicate electronically need to know that their messages are private and that they can rely on the address to correctly identify the sender and or recipient.

Therefore it is desirable to provide a system for communicating electronically that is available to everyone that gives consumers control over the content of communications received and that provides a secure and reliable way to conduct transactions electronically.

Systems and methods consistent with the present invention overcome the shortcomings of conventional systems by establishing an electronic account for a customer on a network where the customer s electronic address is linked to the customer s physical address. As with a conventional electronic account a customer is able to send and receive e mail as well as conduct electronic transactions. However the electronic account ensures flexible and secure communications by linking a customer s electronic address to the customer s physical address. Systems and methods consistent with the present invention may be implemented by the USPS. Moreover such a USPS electronic account may provide electronic access to all persons i.e. a person with a USPS physical address may also have a USPS electronic account.

A method consistent with the present invention establishing an electronic account over a network. When a request is received from a user to initiate an electronic account over the network a physical address of the user is matched from an address database the physical address corresponding to a location where the user receives mail. The electronic account is linked to the physical address.

Another method consistent with the present invention establishes electronic mail services over a network using an electronic account by receiving a request for electronic mail services from a user the request including a physical address of the user. An electronic address for the user is generated so that the user can receive electronic mail at the electronic address. An electronic account is initiated over the network for the user wherein the electronic account has a unique electronic customer account number corresponding to the user and the physical address is linked to the electronic address using the electronic account.

Another method consistent with the present invention processes electronic mail services over a network using an electronic account by linking the electronic account to a physical address of a user and an electronic address of the user. A request is received from a service to access the electronic account over the network and a request is received from the user to access the service over the network via the electronic account.

Another method consistent with the present invention delivers mail. Mail is received for delivery to a customer with an electronic account. The electronic account has both an electronic address for the customer and a physical address for the customer and both the electronic address and the physical address are linked by the electronic account. The mail is then delivered to the customer.

Another method consistent with the present invention delivers a message to a user with an electronic account by receiving the message directed to the user with the electronic account where the message includes an electronic address and an incomplete physical address of the user. A complete physical address of the user is determined from the electronic address using an address database and the message is delivered to the user.

Another method consistent with the present invention delivers a message to a user with an electronic account when the electronic account includes a preferred delivery address. A temporary delivery address for the user and a time period corresponding to the temporary delivery address are received. When a message directed to the preferred delivery address is received during the time period the message is sent to the temporary delivery address.

It is to be understood that both the foregoing general description and the following detailed description are exemplary and explanatory only and are not restrictive of the invention as claimed.

Systems and methods consistent with the present invention provide an electronic account for a customer on a network where the customer s electronic address is linked to the customer s physical address. As with a conventional electronic account a customer is able to send and receive e mail as well as conduct electronic transactions. Additionally an electronic account consistent with the present invention ensures flexible and secure communications by linking a customer s electronic address to the customer s physical address.

Embodiments described herein include systems and methods for providing an electronic account to a customer linking a customer s electronic address to a physical address of the customer establishing an electronic account using an Internet Customer Registration System providing a secure electronic mailbox and providing a certificate authority for proofing identities.

When electronic account is established it is linked to a physical address of customer . Typically the physical address corresponds to a location where the user receives physical mail such as via the USPS or other entity. In this way anyone who receives mail at a physical address can establish an electronic account consistent with the present invention. The physical address can be a home address Post Office box business address etc. Electronic account can also include an electronic address such as an e mail address for customer .

To provide electronic services to customer a service provider can communicate with customer via electronic account . If electronic account is linked to customer s physical address and e mail address the service provider can send a communication to electronic account and request delivery to either the physical address or the e mail address or both. If such a communication directed to customer contains an incomplete address the complete address can be determined using electronic account . As an added service the sender i.e. the service provider could be informed of the complete address as part of an address correction service.

Electronic account can allow customer to receive an electronic message in physical form at a physical address. In this way the present invention makes e mail available even to people without regular access to a computer. For example a customer could use a public computer e.g. at a public library to establish an electronic account and obtain a vanity e mail address. Thereafter any messages sent to the e mail address would be received at the electronic account and could be printed and delivered to the physical address linked to the electronic account. The USPS or another company could offer this service to help bridge the technology gap.

Customer can also link a temporary address either physical or electronic to electronic account to request that messages be delivered to the temporary address for a given period of time. For example a businessman might have an electronic account with preferred e mail and physical addresses at his office. When he takes a two week business trip he can use his electronic account to have his messages delivered to a new temporary address such as a cellular phone or a computer in a hotel. Service providers sending the messages to the businessman would not need to know about his temporary address. All communications would still be directed to the electronic account.

When the customer provides the physical address the electronic account system can submit it to an address matching engine that communicates with an address database. The address matching engine submits the address as a query to the address database which returns a standardized physical address to be linked to the electronic account. In one embodiment the standardized physical address conforms to a pre approved format and includes a nine digit ZIP code. In this way the physical address linked to the electronic account is as complete and correct as possible even if the customer submitted only a partial address e.g. only a 5 digit ZIP code . This address matching process is described in detail below with reference to .

A service can leverage the electronic account to send a message to a plurality of customers. For example a marketing firm could submit a physical mailpiece e.g. a brochure to the electronic account system along with a mailing list of physical addresses for a group of customers having electronic accounts. The electronic account system can create a mailing list of e mail addresses corresponding to the physical addresses using each customer s electronic account. The mailpiece can be scanned or otherwise converted into electronic format and delivered to the customers e mail addresses. Alternatively the message could be delivered to a different electronic address such as a facsimile number or telephone number. This type of service is described below with reference to .

After customer provides registration information to registration system a mailpiece such as a confirmation letter is created and sent to the user at a physical address. The physical address can be one provided by the customer with the registration information. Mailpiece contains an identity validation IDV form described with regard to below. To complete the registration process customer takes IDV form to a registration office such as a local Post Office. There a clerk verifies the customer s identity and uses IDV form to send identification verification information to registration system .

As shown in IDV form can include the customer s physical address the customer s e mail address the location of the nearest registration office and a date by which the customer must go to the registration office. IDV form can also include a list of identity validation documents that the customer must present at the registration office such as a driver s license birth certificate or utility bill. In one embodiment the customer can select the identity validation documents when submitting registration information to registration system .

IDV form can include a confirmation bar code. The confirmation bar code can be created by the registration system and linked to the electronic account when IDV form is created. Once a clerk validates the customer s identity for example by examining the identity validation documents the clerk can scan the confirmation bar code and send it electronically to registration system . When registration system receives the scanned confirmation bar code the customer s electronic account can be activated. Activation can occur for example by sending a digital certificate password or other notification to the customer.

In one embodiment of the present invention two copies of IDV form are sent to the customer one copy for the customer to take to the registration office and another copy for the customer to retain for his records. IDV form can include a set of instructions and a customer care telephone number that the customer can call if he has any problems. IDV form can also include a signature and date block for the customer to execute as part of the identification validation process at the registration office.

Database server processes all communications with an Internet Customer Registration System ICRS database . In one embodiment ICRS database consists of two logical components a customer name database and a customer address database . Customer name database stores the registration information provided by a customer along with an electronic account number assigned to the customer. Customer address database stores the customer s physical address. In this embodiment the physical address is stored separately from the customer s name and other information to protect the security of the customer. To create a high level of security packet filter access can be installed between customer name database and customer address database . Consistent with the present invention the ICRS database could be maintained as a single database.

When registration system receives registration information from customer it stores the registration information in ICRS database as described above. An identification verification IDV form generator then extracts data from ICRS database and passes the data to a print and insertion function that generates mailpiece containing IDV form . Alternatively IDV form generator and print and insertion function can be a single process. In one embodiment the IDV form and mailpiece are generated within 24 hours after the customer s registration information is stored in ICRS database .

As described above customer takes IDV form to a registration office where a clerk verifies or proofs the customer s identity. The identity proofing can include comparing a photo ID to the customer in person. When the customer s identity is successfully proofed the clerk scans a confirmation bar code from IDV form and transmits the scanned bar code to registration system via a delivery confirmation host . In one embodiment IDV form generator can send a notification to delivery confirmation host when IDV form is created. When this notification is received delivery confirmation host can communicate with application server to provide notice that identification verification information is soon to be received. When the scanned bar code is sent to delivery confirmation host application server retrieves this identification verification information from delivery confirmation host .

Once the identification verification information is received by application server a request is generated and sent to a digital certificate authority such as for example the Certificate Authority CA described below with reference to . The request can direct digital certificate authority to generate a digital certificate for customer . The request can include for example a public key and information provided by customer during the registration process.

A digital certificate is a well known tool for sending secure messages. A CA issues an encrypted digital certificate containing a customer s public key and a variety of other identification information. The Certificate Authority makes its own public key available through print or perhaps on the Internet. The recipient of an encrypted message uses the CA s public key to decode the digital certificate attached to the message verifies the digital certificate as issued by the CA and then obtains the sender s public key and identification information held within the certificate. With this information the recipient can send an encrypted reply.

Certificate software is an application programming interface API a tool enabling one piece of software to communicate with another piece of software. Certificate software is used by registration system to construct and submit requests to digital certificate authority and to retrieve a customer s digital certificate from digital certificate authority .

AME DP 4 system software includes an interface to address matching directories and associated software to access those directories. This software can be used to resolve a physical address based on USPS delivery guidelines to create a standardized physical address. In one embodiment a standardized physical address can meet one of four levels of address standardization. The first level of standardization is delivery point which resolves the address to an unique delivery point. The second level of standardization is plus 4 which resolves the address to a valid range of addresses within a plus 4 segment of a ZIP code. The third level of standardization is 5 digit which resolves the address to a five digit ZIP code area only. The fourth level of standardization is last line which resolves the address to a city state and ZIP code. The address matching process is described in more detail below with reference to .

Consistent with the present invention any other format providing a unique identifier can be used including formats with fewer or more than ten characters. The electronic account number can be stored in customer name database and used to link the customer s name and other information to the customer s physical address.

The physical address file is processed in an address matching system as described above to obtain standardized physical addresses for the customers. The standardized physical addresses are processed by a key generator to obtain keys for accessing ICRS database . Using keys created by key generator ICRS database is queried at to create an e mail address mailing list corresponding to the physical address file. The content file is combined with e mail address mailing list to facilitate an electronic mailing . Electronic mailing is sent to an e mail routing system that sends electronic mailing to e mailbox repository for delivery to the plurality of customers. E mail routing system may also provide a status report of e mail delivery to the sender that provided file .

Based on the type of identification document that the customer selects different data can be captured including a control number expiration date etc.

1. Overview of Secure Electronic Mailbox One of the Services Available Through an Electronic Account Consistent with the Present Invention is a Secure Electronic Mailbox SEM .

The SEM can be provided as part of an e mailbox linked to the electronic account as described above. Electronic messages can be sent to a customer using the SEM. Unlike a conventional electronic mailbox the SEM can provide a number of services in addition to receiving and displaying electronic messages. For example the SEM can enable filtering of messages notification when a message is received and or viewed and electronic bill presentment and payment. The SEM can offer various levels of security using for example message authentication time and date seals and digital certificates.

When SEM receives SEM input such as an electronic bill or advertisement SEM input can be stored in an SEM database as described below. By accessing SEM database a customer can view SEM input and approve or disapprove it . For example. if SEM input is an electronic bill approval might indicate that the bill should be paid using the electronic account and disapproval might indicate that the bill should not be paid. The customer communicates approval or disapproval to SEM database which in turn reports the customer s decision as SEM output . SEM thus enables a customer to interact with senders of electronic messages indirectly adding security and privacy protections.

An embodiment of a certificate authority for performing this authentication is described in more detail below.

If this is the customer s initial login step i.e. the first time the customer has accessed the mailbox the customer is prompted to set up a profile step . The profile is linked to the customer s mailbox and can indicate the services the customer would like to access and other profile menu options step . The profile menu options can include screen appearance such as background color or toolbars and other options as appropriate.

If this is not the customer s initial login and if the customer was successfully authenticated then the customer is given access to the mailbox and the customer is prompted to select an SEM service step . Here the customer can select one of the different types of services available through the customer s electronic account and SEM including EPM mail Internet mail advertisements bill payment forms government services etc.

The different services can be provided using for example different storage folders within the SEM. The customer can select an EPM mail folder step that contains mail having an electronic postmark EPM . The customer can select an Internet mail folder step that contains Internet mail and may or may not include security. An advertisement or ads folder that contains advertisements can be chosen step . The advertisements can be for example targeted advertisements sent by an advertiser. The advertisements may be filtered as described above with reference to .

The customer can select a bills folder step that contains bills from billers and or bill consolidators that participate in an electronic bill presentment and payment EBPP system via the SEM. The customer can select a forms folder step containing electronic forms from companies and or government agencies such as tax forms or driver s license renewal forms. The customer can select a folder of government services step containing for example links to government sites such as the Internal Revenue Service. The customer can also access other services step consistent with the present invention.

When the customer selects either Internet mail step or certified mail step the customer has a selection of actions to choose from. The customer can choose to create mail i.e. an electronic message step . As part of the mail creation process the customer may add attachments to the mail or use a spell checking program. The customer can choose to forward mail step or reply to the sender of a message step . The customer can also choose to view a message step . This action allows the customer to view the contents of a message and open or save attachments. If the customer chooses to create mail step forward mail step or reply to mail step the customer is prompted to address the mail step by selecting a name from an address book or otherwise providing an address for the message. The sender can use the secure electronic mailbox to send a message to a recipient at a physical and or electronic address. Once the message is addressed i.e. to either a physical or an electronic address the user can send the message step .

To send the message the customer can select delivery options step including options such as delivery notification or electronic delivery. If the addressee of the message has an electronic account the customer can choose physical delivery and the message will be printed and delivered in physical form to the addressee s physical address. In addition to delivery options the customer can select a priority step such as high priority or urgent. The customer can choose to postmark the message with an EPM. The customer can also choose to encrypt the message step before it is sent. This allows the customer to encrypt a message for privacy and to prevent a third party intercepting the message from reading it. The user can choose to sign the message step for example by attaching a digital signature to the message. Then the message is sent step .

If the customer chooses to view a message step the customer can select a service to detect tampering step . This allows the customer to verify whether a message has been tampered with since it was signed by the sender. The tampering detection process can access a secure time and date seal function step such as an electronic postmark EPM system as described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 675 677 entitled Systems and Methods for Authenticating an Electronic Message filed on Sep. 29 2000. The customer can also choose to apply a time and date seal e.g. an EPM to all inbound messages step . This option will direct the SEM to automatically attach a time and date seal e.g. an EPM to a message when it is received by the SEM. The customer can have the option to use the time and date seal e.g. the EPM as a filter for received mail for example by setting this as a profile menu option step .

Several components of the electronic account system can be used to perform the tasks depicted in . A Create and Activate Mailbox component contains a registration system such as the Internet Customer Registration System described above. Create and Activate Mailbox component can automatically create a mailbox once the customer has completed the online registration process. The mailbox can be created for example by designating an electronic storage location for the customer. In one embodiment the mailbox will remain inactive until identification verification is performed as described above. A Profile Management component can be used to manage the profile information of the customer. This profile information and profile menu options can be stored in a configuration database .

A Mail Management component can manage messages received by the SEM and allow customers to retrieve view save archive and sort messages. Mail Database is a storage location for the messages of the SEM. An eAddress Management component manages a customer s electronic address books which can be stored in an Address Database .

An electronic postmark EPM system can be used to enable the customer to attach a time and date seal e.g. an EPM to a message and to detect when a message with a time and date seal e.g. an EPM has been tampered with. A Sign and Encrypt component can be used to enable a customer to digitally sign messages.

A secure electronic mailbox consistent with the present invention supports many services in addition to electronic message handling. A customer with an electronic account can use an electronic bill presentment and payment EBPP service to receive and pay bills electronically. Billers such as utility companies or credit card companies can join the EBPP system and submit bills bill summaries bill histories etc. to the customer i.e. the payer using the electronic account and SEM systems. An EBPP system consistent with the present invention improves upon conventional electronic bill payment systems in several ways. First the present invention uses an EBPP system to improve communication and feedback between a biller and a payer. Second an EBPP system consistent with the present invention is linked to a physical address of the payer enabling flexible communications including physical and electronic mail. Third because an EBPP system consistent with the present invention is linked to a payer s electronic account the biller knows that the identity of the payer was verified in person and therefore can be more confident in sending bills and receiving payment via the EBPP system. Fourth bills from several sources can be consolidated for viewing seamlessly i.e. without indicating the source of the bill. Payment can be provided to the appropriate biller seamlessly i.e. without indicating the payment destination to the customer.

In an alternative embodiment the enrollment request can also be initiated by a biller. For example a payer could sign up for the EBPP system at a biller s web site. The biller initiated enrollment request would then be sent from the biller to the EBPP system step and the biller initiated enrollment status can be returned to the biller step .

There are many alternative embodiments for storing and presenting bill information to the payer. The electronic account system can store all bill information in the EBPP system e.g. to bill for SEM services . Alternatively the EBPP system may store only bill summary information and the payer can communicate directly with a biller to obtain bill details. In another embodiment the EBPP system may be provided by a third party and offered to the payer via the electronic account system.

The financial processor can send the transaction confirmation to the payer step . Once payment is received the biller s bank can send payment notification to the payer step .

The SEM sends the payment authorization to the EBPP system step which is part of the electronic account system in this embodiment. The EBPP system in turn sends the payment authorization to a financial institution step . This method is an improvement over conventional systems in many ways. The inclusion of an EPM on the payment authorization enhances security for both payer and biller. Because the identity of the payer is validated before the SEM is activated the biller has increased confidence when sending bills and receiving payment.

Systems consistent with the present invention provide a certificate authority for proofing the identity of an electronic customer. Using digital certificate software the electronic account system provides a digital certificate described in detail below to a customer after the customer has been verified in person as part of the electronic account registration process. In this way a digital certificate consistent with the present invention authenticates the customer s identity in a way that is not available in conventional systems.

While digital certificates consistent with the present invention use in 20 person identity validation using identification documents many different types of identity validation may be used consistent with the present invention. For example biometric identification such as fingerprinting or retinal scans could be used.

Although the preferred embodiments of the present invention have been described in detail herein it is to be understood that these descriptions are merely illustrative. Other embodiments of the invention will be apparent to those skilled in the art from consideration of the specification and practice of the invention disclosed herein. It is intended that the specification and examples be considered as exemplary only with a true scope and spirit of the invention being indicated by the following claims.

