---

title: Configuration of embedded intelligence
abstract: A system for configuration of embedded intelligence comprises a processor and a memory. The processor is configured to associate a prompt of an embedded intelligence applet with an exposed field of a business process. The memory is coupled to the processor and is configured to provide the processor with instructions. The memory is configured to store the business process definition.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09223462&OS=09223462&RS=09223462
owner: Workday, Inc.
number: 09223462
owner_city: Pleasanton
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120410
---
A business manager makes many complex decisions over the course of each day. Enterprise business software has come to be relied upon for assisting a manager with his decision making by presenting him with data relevant to these decisions. For example a manager who is considering giving an employee a raise might want to see data regarding the amount and timing of raises given to employees in the past sorted by business division and employee performance level. Setting up this type of data analysis traditionally requires some level of software programming and is not typically integrated into the decision making process. A manager would have to request the services of technical staff to prepare code for the report and utilizing the report would require switching tasks between report viewing and decision making.

The invention can be implemented in numerous ways including as a process an apparatus a system a composition of matter a computer program product embodied on a computer readable storage medium and or a processor such as a processor configured to execute instructions stored on and or provided by a memory coupled to the processor. In this specification these implementations or any other form that the invention may take may be referred to as techniques. In general the order of the steps of disclosed processes may be altered within the scope of the invention. Unless stated otherwise a component such as a processor or a memory described as being configured to perform a task may be implemented as a general component that is temporarily configured to perform the task at a given time or a specific component that is manufactured to perform the task. As used herein the term processor refers to one or more devices circuits and or processing cores configured to process data such as computer program instructions.

A detailed description of one or more embodiments of the invention is provided below along with accompanying figures that illustrate the principles of the invention. The invention is described in connection with such embodiments but the invention is not limited to any embodiment. The scope of the invention is limited only by the claims and the invention encompasses numerous alternatives modifications and equivalents. Numerous specific details are set forth in the following description in order to provide a thorough understanding of the invention. These details are provided for the purpose of example and the invention may be practiced according to the claims without some or all of these specific details. For the purpose of clarity technical material that is known in the technical fields related to the invention has not been described in detail so that the invention is not unnecessarily obscured.

A system for configuration of embedded intelligence comprises a processor configured to associate a prompt of an embedded intelligence applet with an exposed field of a business process and a memory coupled to the processor and configured to provide the processor with instructions and to store the business process definition. In some embodiments the business process definition is stored with the associated embedded intelligence applet.

Configuration of embedded intelligence is disclosed. A human resources and financial software application comprises a database a set of business processes and a set of embedded intelligence applets. Each business process modifies or accesses data stored in the database to accomplish a business process e.g. hire an employee modify the salary of an employee give an employee a promotion enter an invoice etc. Each embedded intelligence applet prepares a report on data stored within the database to assist a business manager with the decisions made in the business processes. The embedded intelligence applets are made available automatically for the user of the business process so that no switching to another application is necessary in order for the functionality of the embedded intelligence applet to be visible available or interactive for the user. In various embodiments the embedded intelligence applet is automatically triggered is automatically made visible is automatically made to be interactive with the user is automatically launched is automatically updated based on new values of input or updated input or any other appropriate trigger. Embedded intelligence applets are created with a standard report writer user interface that does not require technical skill. So that the configuration of the embedded intelligence applet does not require a high degree of technical skill for example a computer skill level of a programmer or a computer specialist or a system administrator. When a report has been created with the report writer user interface it is then enabled as an embedded intelligence applet if it meets certain criteria. An embedded intelligence applet may include a set of prompts e.g. variables that need to be supplied to the embedded intelligence applet in order for it to run. An embedded intelligence applet that provides the salary for each employee of a certain job profile could take as input a job profile to find salaries of or an employee to search salaries of employees with the same job profile. When an embedded intelligence applet is added to a business process the prompts have their values supplied by business process exposed fields. Business process exposed fields comprise data fields made available by the business process for use by embedded intelligence applets. For example an embedded intelligence applet takes as an input an output provided by exposed fields that are available from a business process. These fields comprise available variables from the business process that can be output to provide input values to the embedded intelligence applet.

Database system administrator comprises a database system administrator administrating database system . In some embodiments database system administrator comprises an employee at a company purchasing database system services. In some embodiments administrating database system comprises preparing configuring or modifying database system as desired by database system users e.g. database system user . In some embodiments database system administrator configures and modifies database system in ways not available to database system user . Database system user comprises a database user accessing database services on database system . In some embodiments database system user comprises an employee at a company purchasing database system services. In various embodiments there are 1 2 4 13 22 115 or any other appropriate number of database system users accessing database services on database system . In some embodiments each database system user only has access to their own data stored on database system and is able to utilize database system as though they are the sole database system user. In some embodiments software and data on database system is owned and maintained by database system engineer and access to database system is provided to database system user as a service. In some embodiments database system user configures services on database system . In some embodiments the ability of database system user to configure database system is limited compared with that of database system engineer or database system administrator . In some embodiments a database system user e.g. database system user comprises a person accessing database system via a user interface e.g. a web page. In some embodiments a database system user comprises an automated system accessing database system via a machine interface e.g. a public application programming interface API .

In some embodiments the embedded intelligence applet provides information by receiving the input information associated with the process and looks for related information in the database. For example in the event that a raise process is being used the applet provides salary data for employees with the same job classification e.g. laterally relevant data provides employee salary data e.g. background data or vertically relevant data etc. provides employee data for those with salary similar to the contemplated raise salary e.g. forecasted laterally relevant data or any other appropriate data. In some embodiments related information comprises results from a search on a database e.g. an object database . In some embodiments the search on the database comprises a search based at least in part on an attribute of an object received as an input object. In some embodiments the search on the database comprises a search based at least in part on an attribute of an object related to the input object.

Business process is divided into business process step business process step and business process step . In various embodiments a business process is broken into 1 2 3 5 7 10 or any other appropriate number of steps. Each step contains a subset of the fields a database system user is to fill out in order for the business process to complete. As a business process evolves e.g. through revisions to the software the number of steps the business process is divided into can change e.g. more decisions are added the decisions are spread out among a larger number of steps . Business process additionally comprises factory object factory object and factory object . Factory object is associated with business process step factory object is associated with business process step and factory object is associated with business process step . Each factory object gathers data entered into fields on its associated business process step and reports the data to business object . For instance if an employee name is entered into an employee name field in business process step factory object will detect the employee name and report it to business object . Business object collects data from the factory objects and presents the data to embedded intelligence applet and embedded intelligence applet in a documented and consistent format. For instance if business process comprises a modify employee salary business process and business process step includes a new employee salary field factory object will register data entered into the new employee salary field and report it to business object which will then present it to embedded intelligence applet and embedded intelligence applet in the documented and consistent format. If business process evolves e.g. through revisions to the software and the business process step that includes the new employee salary field is changed the factory objects are changed correspondingly such that business object still receives data entered into the new employee salary field and is able to report the data in the same manner as prior to the business process evolution.

Embedded intelligence applet and embedded intelligence applet receive data from business object as part of their data analysis and report preparation. For instance when a user enters an employee name into a modify employee salary process embedded intelligence applet and embedded intelligence applet receive the employee name and can execute further data analysis and report preparation based on it e.g. finding the performance records of the employee and presenting them to the database user. In some embodiments database management system comprises a processor configured to associate a prompt of an embedded intelligence applet e.g. embedded intelligence applet with an exposed field of a business process e.g. business process and a memory coupled to the processor and configured to provide the processor with instructions and to store the business process definition with the associated embedded intelligence applet.

In some embodiments the business process with its associated embedded intelligence applet has the ability to add remove steps in the business process and yet still allow the embedded intelligence applet to trigger where their prompts have been satisfied e.g. the linkage from exposed fields of the business process are output or transferred to the embedded intelligence applet as inputs .

In the report is enabled for use. In various embodiments enabling the report for use comprises storing the report adding the report name to a list of available reports causing the report to appear in report search results notifying users of the availability of the report or enabling the report for use in any other appropriate way. In it is determined if the report can be used as an embedded intelligence applet. In various embodiments the report can be used as an embedded intelligence applet if its number of columns e.g. the report data source columns defined in is below a threshold if the output data plotting and graphing is below a certain number of plots and graphs if the output data processing meets an output data processing criteria or if the report meets any other appropriate criteria for use as an embedded intelligence applet. In some embodiments the determination of whether the report can be used as an embedded intelligence applet is only made after an indication by a user that the report is to be used as an embedded intelligence applet. If it is determined that the report cannot be used as an embedded intelligence applet the process ends. If it is determined that the report can be used as an embedded intelligence applet control passes to . In the report is enabled as an embedded intelligence applet. In various embodiments enabling the report as an embedded intelligence applet comprises storing the report with an indicator that it is an embedded intelligence applet adding the report name to a list of available embedded intelligence applets causing the report to appear in embedded intelligence applet search results notifying users of the availability of the embedded intelligence applet or enabling the report as an embedded intelligence applet in any other appropriate way.

In an embedded intelligence applet is selected to add to the business process. In various embodiments an embedded intelligence applet is selected from a list of embedded intelligence applets from a category tree of embedded intelligence applets from a set of search results for embedded intelligence applets by typing the name into an embedded intelligence applet name field or in any other appropriate way. In some embodiments the user is given the option to create a new embedded intelligence applet to add to the business process. In some embodiments when an embedded intelligence applet is selected to add to the business process a reference to the embedded intelligence applet is added to the business process definition.

In embedded intelligence applet prompts are associated with fields exposed by the business process. In some embodiments embedded intelligence applet prompts comprise input data prompts that affect the output data displayed by the embedded intelligence applet. In some embodiments embedded intelligence applet prompts comprise data prompts as defined in of . In various embodiments embedded intelligence applet prompts are selected from a list of embedded intelligence applet prompts from a category tree of embedded intelligence applet prompts from a set of search results for embedded intelligence applet prompts by typing the name into a embedded intelligence applet prompts name field or in any other appropriate way. In some embodiments fields exposed by the business process comprise data exposed by a business object e.g. a business object as in business object of and accessible by embedded intelligence applets. In various embodiments fields exposed by the business process comprise data entered into the business process e.g. into business process step data entry fields as defined in of a processed version of data entered into the business process data extracted from data storage e.g. business data storage of a processed version of data extracted from data storage or any other appropriate data. In some embodiments fields exposed by the business process comprise business object exposed data as defined in of . In various embodiments business process exposed fields are selected from a list of business process exposed fields from a category tree of business process exposed fields from a set of search results for business process exposed fields by typing the name into a business process exposed fields name field or in any other appropriate way. In some embodiments associating embedded intelligence applet prompts with fields exposed by the business process comprises determining the embedded intelligence applet prompts. In some embodiments associating embedded intelligence applet prompts with fields exposed by the business process comprises determining the business process exposed fields. In some embodiments the prompt of the embedded intelligence applet is one of a plurality of prompts of the embedded intelligence applet. In some embodiments the exposed field of the business process is one of a plurality of exposed fields of the business process. In some embodiments associating embedded intelligence applet prompts with fields exposed by the business process comprises assigning data output fields made available by the business process to embedded intelligence applet inputs. In some embodiments associating embedded intelligence applet prompts with fields exposed by the business process comprises causing the embedded intelligence applet prompts to be connected to receive data from business process exposed fields upon execution of the business process. In some embodiments when embedded intelligence applet prompts are associated with fields exposed by the business process a reference to the embedded intelligence applet prompts and associated business process exposed fields is added to the business process definition.

In an embedded intelligence applet security policy is defined. In some embodiments an embedded intelligence applet security policy comprises a limitation of the database system users e.g. database system users such as database system user of who are able to access the embedded intelligence applet to only a subset of database system users. For example the data available to the embedded intelligent applet comprises data available to the user according the security policy e.g. personal data or data associated with the user data available to the role the user is associated with etc. . In various embodiments the subset of database system users comprises only users of a specific employee type only users above a certain position in an employee hierarchy only users in a specific business location only users with a particular manager only users with a specific access priority or with access priority above a certain level only a specific list of users or only a subset of users defined in any other appropriate way. In some embodiments when the embedded intelligence applet security policy is defined a reference to the embedded intelligence applet security policy is added to the business process definition. In embedded intelligence applet exceptions are defined. In some embodiments embedded intelligence applet exceptions comprise conditions that must be satisfied for the embedded intelligence applet to run. In various embodiments embedded intelligence applet exceptions comprise determining if a variable is equal to a specific value determining if a variable is in a particular range determining if a particular piece of data is defined determining if the processed version of a variable is not equal to zero or any other appropriate embedded intelligence applet exception. In various embodiments embedded intelligence applet exceptions comprise showing an employee salary graph embedded intelligence applet if a particular employee s salary is greater than 100 000 showing an employee organization chart if a particular employees division is labeled as management not showing an employee history embedded intelligence applet if an employee has been employed less than three months or any other appropriate embedded intelligence applet exception. In some embodiments when the embedded intelligence applet exceptions are defined a reference to the embedded intelligence applet exceptions is added to the business process definition. In the business process definition is stored. In some embodiments storing the business process definition comprises storing an associated set of references. In various embodiments storing the business process definition comprises storing references to an embedded intelligence applet to embedded intelligence applet prompts and associated business process exposed fields to an embedded intelligence applet security policy to embedded intelligence applet exceptions or to any other appropriate references. In some embodiments the business process definition is stored in a business data storage e.g. business data storage of . In some embodiments storing the business process definition with a reference to the associated embedded intelligence applet causes the embedded intelligence applet to run when the business process is run. In some embodiments storing the business process definition with a reference to the associated embedded intelligence applet causes the selections connections and definitions made as part of the process of to be stored as part of the business process definition. In some embodiments storing the business process definition with a reference to the associated embedded intelligence applet causes the embedded intelligence applet to be executed with prompts connected to receive data from business process exposed fields upon execution of the business process. In some embodiments storing the business process definition with a reference to the associated embedded intelligence applet causes the embedded intelligence applet to act upon received data e.g. data received from business process exposed fields and display output data.

Although the foregoing embodiments have been described in some detail for purposes of clarity of understanding the invention is not limited to the details provided. There are many alternative ways of implementing the invention. The disclosed embodiments are illustrative and not restrictive.

