---

title: Brand mapping
abstract: A user uses a portable electronic device to select an image representative of a brand. In response to the user's selection of the image representative of the brand, the device automatically presents the user with an image of a map that indicates a current location of the device and shows one or more images representative of brand purchase sites where the selected brand may be accessed by the user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08451114&OS=08451114&RS=08451114
owner: N99 LLC
number: 08451114
owner_city: Lexington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121012
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 361 829 filed on Jan. 30 2012 entitled Brand Mapping which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 846 478 filed on Jul. 29 2010 entitled Brand Mapping now U.S. Pat. No. 8 106 766 issued on Jan. 31 2012 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 758 392 filed on Jun. 5 2007 entitled Brand Mapping now U.S. Pat. No. 7 768 395 issued on Aug. 3 2010 which claims priority from U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 885 773 filed on Jan. 19 2007 entitled Consumer Brand Links all of which are hereby incorporated by reference.

Various conventional computer based systems exist for displaying maps to users. Such systems generally work in one of three ways 

The prior art in general enables a user to provide an address business name or business type resulting in the identification of one or more real property locations corresponding to the provided address business name or business type.

Users continually seek new and improved ways to find and view geographic information more quickly and easily. What is needed therefore are improved techniques for enabling users to find and view such information.

In one embodiment of the invention a user of a portable electronic device uses the device to select an image identifying a brand. In response to the user s selection of the image identifying the brand the device automatically presents the user with an image of a map that indicates a current location of the device and shows one or more images representative of brand access sites where products and or services of the selected brand may be accessed e.g. purchased by the user. For example if the user selects a logo for a particular brand of soft drink product the device may present the user with an image of a map that has been automatically centered about the current location of the user and that shows shops restaurants vending machines etc. where soft drink products having the selected brand may be accessed e.g. purchased . Products and services having a particular brand may be available for purchase at multiple brand access sites that sell a wide range of different brands of products and services or brand access sites that sell a single brand of product or service or both. Furthermore a brand access site does not need to be located at a real property address meaning that the location of the brand access site could be a vending machine for example or another location that does not have a real property address or an address that is generally known.

For example one embodiment of the present invention is a method comprising A displaying using a device a first image associated with a first brand such as a photograph or illustration associated with the first brand B receiving from a user of the device an indication of a selection by the user of the first image such as by a single mouse click on the first image C identifying a first location of the device independently of any location specifying input provided by the user to the device such as by using GPS or an RFID system D identifying a first brand access site at which a first branded entity e.g. a product or service having the first brand may be accessed and E providing to the user using the device a first map image which describes a first geographic area derived from the first location of the device and which includes a first indication of the first brand access site.

For the user to select the first image a plurality of images e.g. logos associated with a plurality of brands may be displayed to the user. The user may select a particular one of the plurality of images. The method may provide the user with a first map image which describes a first geographic area derived from the first location of the device and which indicates a first physical location of a first brand purchase site at which the first branded entity may be purchased. The first map may indicate a plurality of brand access site associated images representing a plurality of brand access sites at which the first branded entity may be accessed.

The method may provide the first map image to the user by D 1 identifying a plurality of brand access sites each of which is associated with at least the first brand D 2 identifying a subset of the plurality of brand access sites such as those brand access sites within a geographic area described by the first map wherein each member of the subset is associated with the first brand and D 3 providing to the user a first map image which includes for each brand access site that is a member of the subset an indication of a brand access site.

The user may select the first brand access site and the method may perform additional steps based on the user s selection. For example the method may dial a telephone number of the first brand access site present to the user a web site associated with the first brand or provide the user with directions to the first brand access site.

The method may update the first map image over time. For example the method may E identify a second device location independently of any location specifying input provided by the user to the device and F in response to identifying the second device location provide to the user using the device a second map which describes a second geographic area overlapping with a location in proximity to the second device location and which includes a second indication of a second brand access site at which the first brand is accessible.

Other features and advantages of various aspects and embodiments of the present invention will become apparent from the following description and from the claims.

Embodiments of the present invention are directed to a device that enables a user to view one or more brand identifying images such as one or more logos on a display and to select a particular brand identifying image using input means to thereby enable the presentation of a map image indicating a current location of the device and showing the locations of any one or more brand access sites for the selected brand that are located in proximity to the user i.e. within the geographic area presented on the map . The system benefits users for example by facilitating the location and purchase of brands of products and services selected by the user by automatically directing i.e. independently of location specifying information provided by the user the user to a nearby location where the selected brand of products or services may be available for purchase.

A brand is defined as a distinctive identity of a collection of related products or services. A branded entity of a particular brand is defined as a product or service having the particular brand. For example a bottle of a Coca Cola brand soft drink is an example of a branded entity of the Coca Cola brand of soft drinks. A brand access site for a particular brand is defined as a location at which one or more branded entities of the particular brand may be accessed.

In general as used herein branded entities of a brand may be accessed e.g. purchased by a consumer at one or more brand access sites. In some instances for example a brand of products is marketed or sold under a common trademark. In other instances for example a brand of services is marketed or sold under a common servicemark. One example of a brand of products is the Coca Cola brand of beverages. Another example of a brand of products is the iPod brand of consumer electronics. Yet another example of a brand of services is the Jiffy Lube brand of oil change services. Yet another example of a brand of services is the H R Block brand of tax preparation services.

Referring to an embodiment of the present invention is shown in which a brand is accessible at multiple brand access sites . Each of brand access sites may be for example a real property location e.g. a structure having an address such as a store shop market office restaurant service station movie theater event venue etc. In addition each of brand access sites may be an alternative type of location such as a free standing vending machine kiosk mobile sales unit or other location where products or services of brand may be accessed e.g. purchased irrespective of whether or not the location is associated with a real property address.

As an example if brand is associated with Coke branded beverage products comprised of such beverages as regular Coke Diet Coke Cherry Coke etc. such products may be accessed e.g. purchased at thousands of brand access sites including but not limited to stores markets restaurants vending machines event venues etc. Brand access site locations where products or services of brand are accessible may remain stable i.e. fixed in number or may change over time with a change in inventory levels or distribution for example. For example Product Y may be sold in 1 000 brand access sites today and due to large demand may only be available for purchase in 900 brand access sites tomorrow meaning for example that 100 of the brand access sites have stocked out . As another example Product Z may be sold in 100 brand access sites today and 200 brand access sites a year from today.

Referring to a device according to one embodiment of the invention is shown. The device has a display an input means and an application launch means .

Device may for example be a mobile phone a wireless communications device a personal digital assistant PDA computer laptop computer other computing device global positioning system GPS unit or other navigation device. In general device may be any system or device that enables a user to input a selection of a brand by means of selection of a brand identifying image and view a map image indicating a device location and showing the location s where products or services of the selected brand are accessible. The example device shown in is multifunctional including functions that relate to communication personal organization etc.

In one embodiment display is an electronic display output means of a type commonly found on mobile phones or similar small portable computing or communication devices. In another embodiment display is an electronic monitor or screen of the type commonly found on laptop computers. In other embodiments display may be any element or mechanism that communicates information to user . Display may be small or large active or passive high resolution or low resolution color or monochrome and may generally employ any type of display technology. Display may be any of a wide range of dimensions from a small size that is usable on a small mobile phone to a size that is more commonly found on a laptop computer and larger. For example display may be a 5 centimeter high by 5 centimeter wide touch screen display that serves as both a display and input means . An example of an integrated display and input means is shown in .

In one embodiment input means is a touch sensitive display that enables user to view information on display and then to select an element of the information that is presented by touching the screen with a finger or other pointing or touching means. In such an embodiment input means and display may be integrated into a single device. In another embodiment input means is a mechanical keypad. In other embodiments input means may be any other mechanism that enables user to communicate information to the device . Other input means may be mechanical or electronic and may involve physical or other interactive processes between user and the input means . For example voice commands and thought commands are two possible alternative ways of communicating with input means .

In one embodiment application launch means is a virtual or physical button that starts launches or brings into view an embodiment of the invention on device . Other launch means are possible and one possible embodiment excludes application launch means altogether. shows an icon as one possible embodiment of application launch means .

In one embodiment as shown in display may show an arrangement of one or more brand identifying images such as an arrangement or one or more logos. In the particular embodiment shown in brand identifying images are arranged in two categories with brand identifying images being shown as favorites and brand identifying images being shown as popular . Each brand identifying image for example is a graphic such as a logo picture illustration photograph or any other image that identifies a particular brand. For example brand identifying image is an image of a logo for Apple Inc. and may represent one or more Apple brands such as Apple computers iPod music players iTV systems and more as an alternative that is not shown an image of an iPod may be used to identify the iPod brand of products . As another example brand identifying image is an image of a logo for Starbucks Corporation and may represent Starbucks coffee and other Starbucks products or services for example.

In an embodiment of the invention brand identifying images are searchable. In another embodiment of the invention brand identifying images are sortable. In yet another embodiment of the invention brand identifying images are arrangeable on display in other ways. In yet another embodiment of the invention brand identifying images may be either static or dynamic i.e. a dynamic image is one that changes or moves or that can be made to change or move .

In one embodiment as shown in display shows a map image that includes one or more brand access site associated images .

In general map image is a visual depiction or representation of a geographic area physical area or space that is rendered on display . In one embodiment as shown in map image shows a graphic that includes street level detail. Map image may be rendered in color or monochrome. Map image may be labeled or unlabeled. Map image may be static or moving i.e. a moving map image is one that is updated to generally correspond with the movement of device . In other embodiments map image may be scalable e.g. zoom in zoom out shiftable e.g. re centerable left or right up or down or rotatable e.g. re orientable about a point .

Map image may for example be two dimensional or three dimensional. Map image may for example represent an area or space using a photograph or photorealistic image or using a stylized representation such as commonly used on a street map or road atlas . Map image may or may not be drawn to scale. Map image may include combinations of various features just described. For example map image may include a superimposition of a stylized representation over a photorealistic representation such as lines and street names superimposed on photorealistic images of streets.

Preferentially map image shows a geographic area that is generally accessible to user i.e. a local area . Such area may be optimally scaled for device according to the movement characteristics e.g. speed direction of device . For example if device is being moved at a slow pace by a person who is walking with device for example then device may provide a map image showing a relatively small geographic area that is accessible by foot. In another example if device is being moved at a fast pace by a person who is driving with device for example then device may provide a map image showing a larger geographic area that is accessible by car. For example one possible map image may show an area of 100 city blocks. In another example map image may show an area of a square kilometer or other region. Other map image areas are possible. In yet another example map area may show the interior of a retail store.

In one embodiment an example of which is shown in map image includes one or more brand access site associated images . For example map image shown in shows two brand access site associated images each of which is presented as a small dot circle that is superimposed onto included as an element of map image . Each of the brand access site associated images represents the location of a unique one of the brand access sites . As previously described brand access site is a first location at which products and or services of brand are generally available for purchase and brand access site is a second location at which products and or services of brand are generally available for purchase.

In one embodiment brand access site associated images represent particular brand access sites . Brand access site associated image may for example be an image of a logo such image of a logo may be significantly smaller than brand identifying image for example identifying the corresponding brand . In another embodiment brand access site associated image is an image of a product having the corresponding brand such as an illustration or photo such image may be relatively small so as not to adversely affect the usability of map image for example . In yet another embodiment brand access site associated image is a shape such as a small circle dot as shown in as brand access site associated images . In the case where multiple brand access site locations are represented on map image by multiple brand access site associated images each of the brand access site associated images may be unique or each group of related brand access site associated images that are affiliated with the same brand may be the same or similar image and different from brand access site associated images that are associated with other brands for example. For example two different ones of the brand access site associated images may be presented as two different colors of dots on map image . Furthermore brand access site associated images may include other information or indicate other characteristics. For example brand access site associated images may indicate the availability either generally or specifically by means of indicating a number of available units for example of products services of brand that are available for purchase at the particular brand access sites represented by the particular brand access site associated images . In another example brand access site associated image may indicate whether brand access site is open or closed for business at the time of display of the brand access site associated image on map image .

In summary an embodiment of the invention has a device display means and input means . Display means and input means may be incorporated into a single element such as a touch screen display. Display may present one or more brand identifying images each of which is associated with a corresponding brand. Furthermore display may present map image that shows one or more brand access site associated images which are associated with brand access sites respectively.

In one embodiment represented in the invention is shown in a first state. The term first state is defined as a state of the device prior to or during communication of a brand identifying image selection from device to processor .

In one such embodiment as shown in device includes display input means and location means . Display is shown having two brand identifying images . In this embodiment brand identifying image is associated with a first brand and brand identifying image is associated with a second brand

A user provides user input to device by means of input means . User input may be an indication of a selection of a particular brand identifying image that is of interest to user . For example assume that user indicates a selection of a particular brand identifying image in order to view a map image showing the location of brand access sites associated with the particular brand that is of interest to user . Subsequent to the communication by user of user input to input means of device device either directly or indirectly possibly using any of a wide variety of means communicates user input data information about user s selection of the brand identifying image to processor . In one embodiment the communication of information about user s selection of the particular brand identifying image from device to processor is performed wirelessly.

In one embodiment location means is any mechanism process or means that enables identification of device s location. For purposes of the invention device s location is intended to be reasonably specific such as may be determined by a GPS unit other satellite enabled location identification system or other location identifying means. Identification of location of device is performed independently of location specifying information provided by user to device . For example device s location may be determined without any input of an address zip code etc. by user . In one embodiment location means is physically integrated as an element of device such as an integrated GPS or similar type of unit. In another embodiment location means is physically separate from device such as identification of device location based on triangulation by a remote system that includes one or more radio e.g. cell phone antennas for example. A RFID system that is associated with a RFID enabled environment is another example of a possible device location means . In one embodiment once location means determines device s location information about device s location device location data is communicated directly or indirectly possibly using any of a wide variety of means to processor . In one embodiment the communication of device location data from location means to processor is performed wirelessly. In another embodiment of the invention device location data is communicated from location means to another element of a system of the invention.

In one embodiment as shown in processor is a means that uses user input data and device location data in order to process this and possibly other data. In one embodiment processor is physically integrated into device . In another embodiment processor is physically separate from device . For example processor may exist in a fixed location. In the case that processor is physically integrated into device input means and location means may communicate user input data and device location data respectively to processor using direct physical connection e.g. wires for example. In the case that processor is physically separate from device device and location means may communicate user input data and device location data respectively to processor using wireless means for example.

In one embodiment processor receives user input data that provides information about a selection of brand identifying image by user and device location data that provides information about a device location. Processor may be for example a computer or other electronic device or system of connected computers or electronic devices capable of processing the relevant information. Processor processes the inputs to generate a query to a brand access site data repository which may be incorporated as an element of processor or separate from processor . Brand access site data repository may be a database or any other means or multiple databases or other means that contains information about brand access sites and other brand access sites not shown . Such information may include for each of the brands and for other brands not shown or brand identifying images an address geographic coordinates or other location specifying information for brand access sites relating to the particular brand or brand identifying image for example. Following query of brand access site data repository brand access site data repository responds and communicates data for processor such data comprising information about brand access sites that are associated with the specified brand or brand identifying image . Such data enables the rendering of map image that includes brand site associated images . In one embodiment brand access site data repository is located in a single location i.e. a central database . In another embodiment brand access site data repository is distributed or located in multiple locations i.e. information on pages that are available on multiple Internet sites . In yet another embodiment brand access site data repository is an element of device such as a database of brand access site data that is stored in a memory of device . Any brand access site data repository containing brand access site information may be updatable.

In one embodiment brand access site data repository may be informed relative to actual inventory or availability e.g. number of units of a product that are available starting time or times of a movie showing or other event of products or services of the brand at each of the particular brand access sites . For example if products or services of the selected brand are not available at brand access site then particular brand access site may not be communicated to processor or alternatively may be communicated but not shown on map image as brand access site associated image . In another embodiment brand access site data repository is informed relative to actual inventory or availability of products or services of brand at brand access site and inventory or availability details are communicated by brand access site data repository to enable device display to display map image having brand access site associated images that indicate for example the number of available units of a product or service of brand that is being sought by user . Alternatively in another embodiment movie starting time s may be indicated. Such a feature would be particularly helpful for some products that are poorly stocked or only available at certain times or in the instance when user is seeking to purchase a relatively large number of units of a product of brand for example. In conjunction with such a feature the device may enable user to indicate the number of units the user is seeking to access or similar parameter in response to which the map image may only include brand access site associated images corresponding to brand access sites at which at least the number of units specified by the user are accessible or at which another parameter is observed . The information contained in brand access site data repository may be provided in turn by other systems including but not limited to store inventory systems RFID enabled systems event or movie show time listings and any other means of determining tracking or recording the availability of products or services.

In one embodiment processor incorporates a map image data source. In the embodiment shown in for example the map image data source is an element of processor . In another embodiment a map image data source may be separate from processor and may be queried or otherwise accessed by processor in order to access map image data. In such an embodiment processor may communicate information to the map image data source which may in turn communicate map image data back to processor for possibly further processing and communication to device to enable the rendering of map image on display . Alternatively processor may communicate information to a map image data source which may in turn communicate map image data including brand access site data directly to device to enable the rendering of map image on display . Other embodiments of accessing processing and communicating map image data are possible and envisioned and consistent with embodiments of systems and methods of the invention. While there are multiple possible map image data sources available one example is the Google Maps Application Programming Interface API provided by Google Inc.

In one embodiment represented in the invention is shown in a second state. The term second state is defined as a state of the device after display of a first initial map image on device display .

In one embodiment map rendering data is communicated from processor to device as shown in . In other embodiments map rendering data may be provided to device from other sources or elements of an embodiment of a system of the invention.

Map image includes one or more brand access site associated images although in one embodiment no brand access sites associated images would be displayed on map image if no brand access sites exist within the geographic area indicated by the particular map image for example . Brand access site associated image represents a location on map image of a first brand access site . Brand access site associated image represents a location on map image of a second brand access site . In each of the two brand access site associated images is presented as a small dot circle on map image . Such shape may be colored if display is a color display. Map image includes brand access site associated images that are viewable by user to facilitate user identification of brand access sites where products or services of a particular brand of interest to user may be accessed e.g. purchased .

The second state may be modified modified second state to reflect a new or changed location of device and presumably the new or changed location of user who is using device . For example map image may be re rendered to reflect a new or changed location of device . For example if device is traveling with user in a moving car then a second state may be changed to a modified second state either automatically e.g. continuously frequently periodically or by prompting e.g. user input setting directive to show a re rendered map image that is for example re centered to reflect a new location of device and that shows a new set as appropriate of brand access site associated images meaning those images for brand access sites if any that are within the area described by the re rendered map image . A modified second state can be repeatedly realized at various intervals to show an updated moving map image that is relevant to user of device according to current device location and device location data .

The device may be returned to the first state such as by reinitializing the device or in response to input from the user indicating a desire to identifying brand access sites for another brand. As a result the method of may be performed multiple times using the same device to identify and display locations of brand access sites for different brands.

Embodiments of the invention may also allow map image to be modified in other ways. For example user may use input means to change map image scale to provide various levels of detail i.e. zoom in or out . Also for example user may use input means to change map image centering i.e. to scroll or shift the image in a desired direction . Also for example user may change map image orientation of i.e. rotation possibly to adjust for the orientation of display when device is being used. In addition brand access site associated images shown on map image may be manipulable or may be selectable by user using input means .

In the case that an embodiment of the invention further provides a means for user to select one or more brand access site associated images on map image such selection may for example provide user with a menu or list of further functions. For example user may select one of the brand access site associated images to for example initiate a phone call to the selected brand access site prompt a person associated with the selected brand access site to contact user on device place an order for products or services of the selected brand determine inventory of products having the selected brand check the hours of operation or availability of the selected brand access site make certain brand access site associated images a default feature on all map images displayed to user denote a particular one of the brand access sites as a favorite default etc. While such a subsequent action or actions may be facilitated by a menu or list embodiments of the invention may also be configured to enable user to access a particular action by a single click on a button or other form of input . For example in one embodiment user may enable a phone call using device by using input means to simply select one of the i.e. click on brand access site associated images on map image . Other embodiments may include other map image enabled functions.

Next display means displays a first brand identifying image an example of which is the brand identifying image shown in step . Optionally display means may concurrently show a second brand identifying image an example of which is the brand identifying image shown in step . Display means may present even more brand identifying images possibly resembling brand identifying images shown in for example . Brand identifying images may be shown or presented in a single set or in subsets and may be searchable sortable arrangeable scrollable etc.

Next method receives user input from user specifying a selection of a particular brand identifying image that is associated with a particular brand of interest to user i.e. a brand that user desires to locate by means of map image step . Assume for purposes of example in the following discussion that user selects brand identifying image to indicate that user is interested in brand

The method applies user input to identify brand access sites for the particular brand of interest to user step . This step may be performed by processor whereby processor generates a query to brand access site data repository in response to which brand access site data repository replies with location identifying information about brand access sites for the particular brand of interest to user . Brand access site data repository may be for example a single database multiple databases a website or website page multiple websites or website pages or other Internet accessible source of information user generated data or other means that may be queried by processor and which provides the relevant information. Furthermore query to brand access site data repository may be general or specific meaning that it could seek to identify all brand access sites for the selected brand and then use only those that are relevant to the geographic area being presented on a current map image or it could query the brand access site data repository in a manner that enables it to secure a relevant subset of data.

Another step may occur before concurrent with or after step step . In step method identifies a location of device independent of location specifying user input. As used herein independent of location specifying user input means that the method does not rely on user to input location specifying information such as an address zip code phone number etc. Rather location of device is identified by the method either by means that may be physically incorporated as an element of device such as a built in GPS unit or similar technology or that are remotely or externally incorporated as an element of a system implemented according to an embodiment of the invention such as by a system that uses triangulation direction finding signal strength a RFID system or other means to determine location of device independently of location specifying user input.

Next method processes device location by applying device location data and brand access site information by applying data to enable map image rendering step . In one embodiment map image rendering is supported by information supplied by a map image data source. Map image rendering information is then communicated to enable device display to render map image showing a geographic area overlapping with a location of device and which includes brand access site associated image s which represent brand access site s for the brand indicated to be of interest to user by user in step step . If there are no brand access sites within the geographic area shown by map image then no brand access site associated images will be indicated on map image .

Next device displays map image to user on display step . Map image shows a geographic area overlapping with a location of device and presumably user who is using device and which includes brand access site associated image s which represent brand access site s for the brand indicated to be of interest to user by user in step . If there are no brand access sites within the geographic area shown by map image then no brand access site associated images will be indicated on map image .

In one embodiment map image may be modified. For example user may use input means to change map image scale to provide various levels of detail i.e. zoom in or out . Also for example user may use input means to change map image centering i.e. to scroll or shift the image in a desired direction . Also for example user may change map image orientation of i.e. rotation possibly to adjust for the orientation of display when device is being used. In addition brand access site associated images shown on map image may be manipulable or may be selectable by user using input means .

The map image may display brand access site associated images which are associated with brands not selected by the user in step . For example if the user has previously selected one or more brands as favorite brands the device may include in the map image brand access site associated images associated with the user indicated favorite brand s if any such sites are within the area represented by the map image . The map image may include such representations of favorite brand access sites in addition to images if any associated with brand access sites corresponding to the brand selected by the user in step . Similarly the device may include in the map image brand access site associated images associated with brands previously stored as default brands. As a result the map image may include brand access site associated images associated with multiple brands even if the user selects only a single brand in step . Similarly the map image may include brand access site associated images associated with one or more brands even if the user does not select any brands in step . The user may for example quickly obtain a view of brand access sites associated with favorite and or default brands that are currently in the vicinity of the device by providing no input in step . The device may facilitate this process by for example allowing the user to bypass step using a keypress or by issuing a display favorites or display defaults command which displays a map image illustrating brand access sites for favorite and or default brands in the vicinity of the device without requiring any further input from the user .

These are merely examples of ways in which the device may display brand access sites to the user for brands not previously selected by the user . Another example in which a similar result is achieved is that in which an advertisement system such as a push advertisement system displays brand access site associated images in the map image for brands not previously selected by the user . Such images may however be selected based on a determination of which brand s the user is likely to find of interest. Such a determination may be made for example based on demographic data previous activity of the user or any of a variety of other techniques.

In the case that an embodiment of the invention further provides a means for user to select one or more brand access site associated images on map image such selection may for example provide user with a menu or list of further functions. If for example user selects brand access site associated image such selection may enable the user to for example initiate a phone call to the brand access site have a person associated with the brand access site contact user on device place an order for products or services of the selected brand determine inventory of products or services of the selected brand check the hours of operation or availability of the selected brand access site make brand access site associated images a default feature on all map images displayed to user denote the brand access site as a favorite etc. While such a subsequent action or actions may be facilitated by a menu or list embodiments of the invention may also be configured to enable user to access a particular action by a single click on a button or other form of input . For example in one embodiment user may enable a phone call using device by using input means to simply select i.e. click on brand access site associated image on map image . Other embodiments may include other map image enabled functions.

In one embodiment of the invention a single action or manipulation of device input means by user e.g. selection of a brand identifying image or the receipt of a single input by device e.g. method step results in the display of map image showing any brand access sites for the brand associated with the brand identifying image that was selected by user .

In one possible sample use case the presentation of which is intended as an example of a use of embodiments of the invention and shall not limit the scope of the invention in any way user of a device that is similar to device shown in views on display similar to display shown in an arrangement of ten images similar to brand identifying images shown in each of which represents one of ten different brands. For example three images represent brands that are beverages two of the images represent fast food products and five of the images represent consumer durable goods. User may manipulate the images. For example using device input means user may scroll through or sort the images. One of the beverage brands a particular soda is of interest to user . User uses device input means to select the image that identifies the particular brand soda of interest. Following this input indicating a selection of an image by user user is then presented with a map image similar to map image shown in that is centered about the current location of device and user who is using device . The map image in this example also includes three images showing where the soda product can be purchased these images being similar to brand access site associated images shown in . The images are representative of locations e.g. stores vending machines etc. that are located nearby the user and where user may purchase the brand of soda of interest. User uses the information to walk to a nearby location to buy a soda.

In this sample use case it is notable that the user arranges e.g. scrolls through and selects an image that identifies a specific brand. It is also notable that the user does not enter e.g. input any location specifying information into the device the system automatically determines a location of the device and presumably the user who is using the device independent of location specifying input provided by the user to the device. Furthermore it is notable that the system provides information to the user about the location of places where the product may be accessed e.g. purchased .

Among the advantages of embodiments of the invention are one or more of the following. Embodiments of the present invention advantageously enable a user to use a device to select a brand identifying image and in response to see a possibly moving and or updated map of a region where the device user is located and which indicates such as by using icons locations at which the user selected brand. Such embodiments thereby enable the user to see where products or services of a brand i.e. products or services of a particular brand of interest to the user may be available for purchase with minimal effort from the user. For example in one embodiment the user may cause the device to display such a map simply by selecting e.g. clicking on the brand identifying image e.g. image of a logo . In response to this single action the device and or other components of the system may automatically identify both the location of the device such as by using GPS and locations in the vicinity of the device at which products services of the user selected brand may be accessed such as by accessing a database of brand access sites . In particular in such embodiments the user need not provide input specifying the user device s current location such as by typing in an address or zip code .

Furthermore these techniques enable the user to enter a selection of a brand but not a location of the user and to be presented with a map showing the location s of brand access sites. As a result the amount of effort required on behalf of the user is reduced in comparison to systems which require the user to input explicit location identifying information or which require a user to guess as to where products or services of a particular brand might be located.

The techniques disclosed herein also enable brand manufacturers and other parties to promote their brands using brand identifying images first and foremost on a user interface. Embodiments of the invention enable brand centric marketing. Such techniques therefore represent an improvement over systems which are purely text based or which otherwise do not prominently display brand identifying images to the user proactively or which do not enable display of brand identifying images in such a controllable manner. For example the logos in may be displayed to the user repeatedly over time even if the user never selects any of the logos . As a result the display shown in would promote the brands associated with logos regardless of the user s actions. Other embodiments of the invention may enable intelligent presentation of brand identifying images such as logos to users.

The techniques disclosed herein further enable a user interested in attending a movie showing e.g. Star Wars Episode 1 or attending another event e.g. Cirque du Soleil Quidam to select an image of the movie or other event and to be presented with a map showing the locations where the movie or other event may be viewed. Furthermore the user may be enabled to view information about the particular movie or other event or the user may be enabled to select or narrow a timeframe to see a subset of locations where the movie or other event may be viewed or experienced at particular times. A movie showing or other event is a branded entity when it is accessible e.g. available for viewing at multiple locations i.e. a motion picture showing at multiple venues represents a collection of related products or services having a distinctive identity.

The techniques disclosed herein may also be used to enable a shopper in an interior retail environment to select an image that is representative of a particular brand and to be shown the in store aisle or shelf location of the particular brand on a map that shows a representation of the interior of the retail environment.

It is to be understood that although the invention has been described above in terms of particular embodiments the foregoing embodiments are provided as illustrative only and do not limit or define the scope of the invention. Various other embodiments including but not limited to the following are also within the scope of the claims. For example elements and components described herein may be further divided into additional components or joined together to form fewer components for performing the same functions.

Although certain embodiments disclosed herein are used in conjunction with mobile devices this is not a requirement of the present invention. Rather the techniques disclosed herein may be used in conjunction with devices that are fixed such as desktop computers . Furthermore although certain embodiments disclosed herein are used in conjunction with handheld devices this is not a requirement of the present invention. Rather the techniques disclosed herein may be used in conjunction with devices of any size such as laptop and desktop computers.

Although certain embodiments are described herein as being used in conjunction with a wireless network connection this is not a requirement of the present invention. Rather the techniques disclosed herein may be used in conjunction with network communications that occur wirelessly or over wires or more generally over any communications medium. Furthermore the techniques disclosed herein may be used in conjunction with any appropriate network protocol.

Although components of certain embodiments disclosed herein are described as communicating with each other over a network the particular examples disclosed herein are not limitations of the present invention. For example the location of the device may be identified by a component within the device itself or by a component external to the device which communicates with the device or with another element of the invention. Similarly the locations of brand access sites may be identified by a component within the device itself or by a component external to the device which communicates with the device. This may involve a database or data repository.

The user may select one or more brands in any of a variety of ways. For example as illustrated in the device may present the user with output representing a plurality of brands such as a plurality of logos that are affiliated with brands . Such output may however take other forms. For example the device may provide the user with images of representative examples of branded entities rather than logos. Furthermore the device need not provide the user with a set of simultaneously displayed brand identifying images. For example the device may allow the user to step through images one at a time until the desired image is found or to utilize functions that enable searching sorting or other arrangement of the images.

The techniques described above may be implemented for example in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. The techniques described above may be implemented in one or more computer programs executing on a programmable computer including a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including for example volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. Program code may be applied to input entered using the input device to perform the functions described and to generate output. The output may be provided to one or more output devices.

Each computer program within the scope of the claims below may be implemented in any programming language such as assembly language machine language a high level procedural programming language or an object oriented programming language. The programming language may for example be a compiled or interpreted programming language.

Each such computer program may be implemented in a computer program product tangibly embodied in a machine readable storage device for execution by a computer processor. Method steps of the invention may be performed by a computer processor executing a program tangibly embodied on a computer readable medium to perform functions of the invention by operating on input and generating output. Suitable processors include by way of example both general and special purpose microprocessors. Generally the processor receives instructions and data from a read only memory and or a random access memory for example. Storage devices suitable for tangibly embodying computer program instructions include for example all forms of non volatile memory such as semiconductor memory devices including EPROM EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROMs. Any of the foregoing may be supplemented by or incorporated in specially designed ASICs application specific integrated circuits or FPGAs Field Programmable Gate Arrays . A computer can generally also receive programs and data from a storage medium such as an internal disk not shown or a removable disk. These elements will also be found in a conventional desktop or workstation computer as well as other computers suitable for executing computer programs implementing the methods described herein which may be used in conjunction with any digital print engine or marking engine display monitor or other raster output device capable of producing color or gray scale pixels on paper film display screen or other output medium.

