---

title: Home networking web-based service portal
abstract: The service portal can further provide user authentication, device provisioning, and/or a user interface used to interact with device(s) in a home network. The service portal can established a trusted communication link between the portal and the device. The service portal can include a home control user interface component for providing a graphical representation of the home network and receiving user input and a device provisioning component that can discover and configure the device. The service portal can, optionally, include an authentication component that can authenticate a particular user's right to configure and/or access device(s) of a particular home network.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09106436&OS=09106436&RS=09106436
owner: Microsoft Technology Licensing, LLC
number: 09106436
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120801
---
This application claims priority to and is a continuation of co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 141 934 entitled Home Networking Web Based Service Portal and filed Jun. 19 2008 which is incorporated herein by reference.

Home computer networks home networks have become more common in recent year. Home networks provide the ability for users to communicate among and between various devices such as computers printers digital cameras web cameras sensors and the like.

Conventionally configuring a home network has been difficult for a consumer. To successfully configure use and troubleshoot a home network a user generally has some technical knowledge and basic understanding of networking protocols and features.

Currently there is no standard way with which to interact with devices. Many home networking devices have an internal web utility that a user can employ to configure feature s of a particular device. Generally these web utilities can be different for similar devices across different vendors and in some cases even for different products by the same vendor. For example a setup user interface for a first router manufactured by a first entity can be different than a setup user interface for a second router manufactured by a second entity. Further network setting s user interface for a router can be different than network setting s user interface for an Internet Protocol IP camera.

Once a home network has been configured the user may need to configure a personal computer on the network for example to setup file and or printer sharing. Additionally the user can configure other feature s for example that require changes to an operating system.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

The disclosed architecture facilitates web based configuration and or access of device s on a home network. A web based service portal provides a user interface to a device local to the home network. For example the web based service portal can communicate with the device s through use of a defined set of application program interfaces APIs of the device s . The web based service portal can provide a standardized user interface for specific feature s of a device. Optionally the web based service portal can provide a user interface designed for the home basic user to facilitate configuration of device feature s .

A computer implemented system that facilitates configuration of a home network can include a web based service portal. The web based service portal can host information reported by device s for a specific network profile. The web based service portal can further provide user authentication device provisioning and or a user interface used to interact with device s in a home network. The web based service portal includes a home control user interface component for providing a graphical representation of the home network and receiving user input.

The web based service portal can optionally include an authentication component that can authenticate a particular user s right to configure and or access device s of a particular home network e.g. guest access wireless security setup etc. . For example authentication can be based upon user credential s such as user name and or a password. The authentication component can establish a trusted communication link between the web based service portal and the device s . The authentication component can further secure the device and the home network.

In one embodiment the device is pre configured with information to establish a trusted communication link e.g. encrypted link between the device and the web based service portal. Once a user has been authenticated via the authentication component a user can enter information associated with a device to be configured for a particular home network. For example the information can be a serial number and password e.g. provided by a manufacturer of the device .

Once the trusted communication link has been established a device provisioning component can discover and configure the device. Based at least in part upon input received from a user the device provisioning component can configure the device e.g. access right s file sharing name device setting s and the like . For example the device provisioning component can store an association between the device a particular home network and a particular user.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends certain illustrative aspects are described herein in connection with the following description and the annexed drawings. These aspects are indicative however of but a few of the various ways in which the principles disclosed herein can be employed and is intended to include all such aspects and their equivalents. Other advantages and novel features will become apparent from the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the drawings.

The disclosed architecture facilitates web based e.g. remote configuration and or access of device s on a home network. A web based service portal can provide a user interface to a device local to the home network. For example the web based service portal can communicate with the device s through use of a defined set of application program interfaces APIs of the device s . The web based service portal can provide a standardized user interface for specific feature s of a particular device. Optionally the web based service portal can provide a user interface designed for the home basic user to facilitate configuration of device feature s .

Reference is now made to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding thereof. It may be evident however that the novel embodiments can be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate a description thereof.

Referring initially to the drawings illustrates a computer implemented system that facilitates configuration of a home network. The system includes a web based service portal that can provide a web based user interface to a device local to the home network. For example the web based service portal can communicate with the device s through use of a defined set of application program interfaces APIs of the device s . The web based service portal can provide standardized user interface for specific features of a device .

The web based service portal can host information reported by device s for a specific network profile. The web based service portal can further provide user authentication device provisioning and or a user interface used to interact with device s in a home network.

As noted previously conventionally there is no standard way with which to interact with the device s on a home network. For example different versions of an operating system can provide different ways to configure a personal computer for a home network. Further there is no standardized user interface for interacting with device s on a home network. Additionally configuration conventionally occurred physically near the device for example via a personal computer on the same home network.

The system provides a graphical user interface that allows user s to interact with device s on a particular home network for example using a simple drag and drop interface right click functionality user interface etc. The system provides a web based service portal and thus minimizes a need for a local device web based user interface. For example the web based service portal can communicate with device s on the particular home network through application program interface s APIs of the networked device s .

The web based service portal includes a home control user interface component for providing a graphical representation of the home network and receiving user input. In one embodiment the home control interface component provides a graphical UI that allows user s to interact with device s of an associated home network using a drag and drop operation and or right click option s . In this embodiment to setup file and or printer sharing from a network attached storage NAS device a user can locate an icon associated with the NAS on a graphical user interface provided by the home control user interface component . The user can then right click on the icon and select share . If the user desires simple sharing the user can choose the default values. If the user desires to specify specific sharing rights setup the user can invoke a standard wizard from the same right click option. The user can further make changes to network setting s of device s via the graphical UI.

In this embodiment the home control user interface component provides a way for the user to interact with the NAS on a particular home network without having to log into a web user interface of the NAS. In this manner the user can be guided through the setup process from a simple right click action.

The web based service portal can optionally include an authentication component that can authenticate a particular user s right to configure and or access device s of a particular home network e.g. guest access wireless security setup etc. . For example authentication can be based upon user credential s such as user name and or a password. The authentication component can establish a trusted communication link between the web based service portal and the device s . The authentication component can further secure the device and the home network.

In one embodiment the device is pre configured with information to establish a trusted communication link e.g. encrypted link between the device and the web based service portal . Once a user has been authenticated via the authentication component a user can enter information associated with a device to be configured for a particular home network. For example the information can be a serial number and password e.g. provided by a manufacturer of the device .

Once the trusted communication link has been established a device provisioning component can discover and configure the device . Further based at least in part upon input received from a user the device provisioning component can modify the configuration of the device e.g. access right s file sharing name device setting s and the like . For example the device provisioning component can store an association between the device a particular home network and a particular user.

The device provisioning component can register new device s to a specific network and automatically configure those device s if custom setting s have been pre defined in a network profile e.g. stored in the web based service portal . Once the device has been provisioned the device can be managed by the web based service portal e.g. automatically and from the home control user interface component if the user desires to make a manual change to the device .

The APIs can provide a flexible control scheme that can be defined to allow and or deny access to feature s and or function of the device . In one embodiment the device includes a set of pre defined APIs that allows the web based service portal to communicate with the device . The APIs provide a standard communication protocol between the device and the web based service portal . For example the APIs can be XML based and transported over a secure connection e.g. https .

In another embodiment the APIs facilitate communication between the device and the web based service portal via an Internet accessible protocol for example based on the Hypertext Markup Language HTML . The APIs are integrated into the device such that user interface for the device can be hosted in the web based service portal .

The web based service portal can thus provide a unified interface for user s to configure device s connected to a home network. For example from the web based service portal a user can configure devices from different manufacturers which use different protocols. Accordingly user frustration with configuration and or management of the home network can be greatly reduced.

In one embodiment the web based service portal provides a standardized device user interface. Thus if a user desires to manually configure a device the user can use the standard user interface regardless of the device . For example a network settings user interface for infrastructure devices can be the same router access point etc.

In one embodiment the web based service portal can provide logic to ensure that a user does not make manual settings change s that will cause conflicts with the general network settings and or any other computer system or device settings on the network. For example the web based service portal warn the user if the user tried to change the IP address of a device to one that did not match an IP range defined by a router of the home network.

Optionally the graphical representation presented by the home control user interface component can be branded to represent a vendor of the device for example while the user interface still maintains a standard appearance for functional configuration. The web based service portal can also allow the user interface to be localized into different language s as needed and without requiring another firmware image on the device .

The system further includes a computer system with a communication utility that provides a secure communication link between the computer system and the web based service portal . The communication utility can provide an alternative interface for setting up file sharing printer sharing and or other function s that are designed specifically for a basic home user.

The communication utility can provide a communication interface with a device the web based service portal and or other utility ies on the network. In one embodiment a user can configure the device locally through the communication utility and APIs e.g. if an Internet connection is not available .

The communication utility can also allow a user to configure specific network setting s of the computer system for example setting up file sharing and or printer sharing. Optionally other information can be reported through the communication utility to the web based service portal for example health information of the computer system firewall status and general computer system information. Accordingly a user can monitor a home network from a single location on the Internet and make appropriate change s if necessary. In one embodiment the communication utility can provide application programming interface s accessible to the web based service portal .

A user logs into the web based service portal through an authentication component . Once a user has been authenticated as authorized to access a particular home network the user can modify setting s of device s and or access the device s .

In one embodiment the web based service portal is Internet based. Accordingly the user can access the particular home network from various locations e.g. physically distant from the home network . For example the web based service portal can provide a graphical representation of the home network and allow the user to interact with device s of the home network . The web based service portal can aggregate information associated with the home network .

For example the home control user interface component can provide a graphical representation of the home network including icons for devices on the home network . For example a user can select an icon associated with a camera and select an access option e.g. right click in order to access the camera. Thus the web based service portal is scenario focused instead of settings focused.

In one embodiment the home control user interface component can provide a graphical representation e.g. network map of the home network that is interactive and customizable. For example the graphical representation can allow a user to have custom names for device s move device s to represent a physical location of device s in the user s home and or automatically configure device s based on how a particular device is moved around on a map and or configured.

For example if a user desires to view an Internet Protocol IP camera from the Internet the user can right click on the camera icon that is displayed by the home control user interface component and choose view from Internet . Using the device APIs and the web based service portal the process to configure the device s to make this happen can be done automatically. The web based service portal can connect directly to the IP camera to enable video sharing and configure the required port s . Further the web based service portal can connect to the router in the network to forward the correct port s required and set up other feature s that may be required e.g. quality of service . Once completed the user can see a video stream associated with the IP camera e.g. from anywhere on the Internet .

In one embodiment the web based service portal can include an update function for networking device s . The update function can insure that device s that are connected to the portal are running a latest approved firmware e.g. for the best user experience . The device can report a current firmware version of the device to the web based service portal where it is stored. When a new firmware image is released e.g. via an update site the user can be presented with options of manual update automatic update and or no update.

In another embodiment the web based service portal can provide a remote interface and view of the home network so a user that is on the Internet can get information about the home network needed to provide support. For example Internet Service Providers ISPs can support their customers without requiring the customer to understand the technology and or interact with the device s . Accordingly support costs and issues can be reduced by providing assistance through a lower cost method e.g. online vs. phone and or configuration of the web based service portal to recognize a potential issue and automatically fix the issue.

For example conventionally if a customer wants to access the customer s NAS drive from the Internet the customer would need to configure the router firewall for access. Using the web based service portal the user can right click on the image of the NAS and choose to access it from the Internet. The user can also drag the NAS to the router to achieve the same result. When a user does either of these actions right click or drag drop the web based service portal can communicate with the router and NAS drive e.g. to automatically open the correct firewall ports and direct traffic through that port to the NAS drive . The customer does not need to log into any local web user interface and or understand port forwarding .

At authentication information is received from a user. For example a user s right to configure and or access device s of a particular home network e.g. guest access wireless security setup etc. can be determined. At a determination is made as to whether the user has been authenticated for example to access information regarding a particular home network. If the determination at is NO no further processing occurs and the method ends.

If the determination at is YES at a trusted communication link is established between a web based service portal and a device. At information e.g. available setting s default setting s configurable setting s etc. is received from the device. At information associated with the device is displayed to the user via the web based service portal.

At configuration information is received from the user. At the device is configured based on the configuration information received from the user and the method ends.

If the determination at is YES at a trusted communication link is established between a web based service portal and a communication utility of a computer system. At information regarding the device e.g. available setting s default setting s configurable setting s etc. is received the communication utility.

At information associated with the device is displayed to the user via the web based service portal. At configuration information is received from the user. At the device is configured via the communication utility based on the configuration information received from the user and the method ends.

If the determination at is YES at a trusted communication link is established between a web based service portal and a home network. At information regarding the home network and associated device s is displayed via the web based service portal.

At information is received from the user. For example the can select a device to configure and or access. At information received from the user is applied to a selected device. For example the device configuration can be modified and or the selected device can be accessed based on the information received from the user.

While certain ways of displaying information to users are shown and described with respect to certain figures as screenshots those skilled in the relevant art will recognize that various other alternatives can be employed. The terms screen screenshot webpage document and page are generally used interchangeably herein. The pages or screens are stored and or transmitted as display descriptions as graphical user interfaces or by other methods of depicting information on a screen whether personal computer PDA mobile telephone or other suitable device for example where the layout and information or content to be displayed on the page is stored in memory database or another storage facility.

As used in this application the terms component and system are intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component can be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor a hard disk drive multiple storage drives of optical and or magnetic storage medium an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a server and the server can be a component. One or more components can reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component can be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers.

Referring now to there is illustrated a block diagram of a computing system operable to execute the disclosed web based configuration and or access of device s of a home network. In order to provide additional context for various aspects thereof and the following discussion are intended to provide a brief general description of a suitable computing system in which the various aspects can be implemented. While the description above is in the general context of computer executable instructions that may run on one or more computers those skilled in the art will recognize that a novel embodiment also can be implemented in combination with other program modules and or as a combination of hardware and software.

Generally program modules include routines programs components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Moreover those skilled in the art will appreciate that the inventive methods can be practiced with other computer system configurations including single processor or multiprocessor computer systems minicomputers mainframe computers as well as personal computers hand held computing devices microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics and the like each of which can be operatively coupled to one or more associated devices.

The illustrated aspects may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where certain tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules can be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.

A computer typically includes a variety of computer readable media. Computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by the computer and includes volatile and non volatile media removable and non removable media. By way of example and not limitation computer readable media can comprise computer storage media. Computer storage media includes volatile and non volatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital video disk DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the computer.

With reference again to the exemplary computing system for implementing various aspects includes a computer the computer including a processing unit a system memory and a system bus . The system bus provides an interface for system components including but not limited to the system memory to the processing unit . The processing unit can be any of various commercially available processors. Dual microprocessors and other multi processor architectures may also be employed as the processing unit .

The system bus can be any of several types of bus structure that may further interconnect to a memory bus with or without a memory controller a peripheral bus and a local bus using any of a variety of commercially available bus architectures. The system memory includes read only memory ROM and random access memory RAM . A basic input output system BIOS is stored in the read only memory such as ROM EPROM EEPROM which BIOS contains the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within the computer such as during start up. The RAM can also include a high speed RAM such as static RAM for caching data.

The computer further includes an internal hard disk drive HDD e.g. EIDE SATA which internal hard disk drive may also be configured for external use in a suitable chassis not shown a magnetic floppy disk drive FDD e.g. to read from or write to a removable diskette and an optical disk drive e.g. reading a CD ROM disk or to read from or write to other high capacity optical media such as the DVD . The internal hard disk drive magnetic disk drive and optical disk drive can be connected to the system bus by a hard disk drive interface a magnetic disk drive interface and an optical drive interface respectively. The interface for external drive implementations includes at least one or both of Universal Serial Bus USB and IEEE 1394 interface technologies.

The drives and their associated computer readable media provide nonvolatile storage of data data structures computer executable instructions and so forth. For the computer the drives and media accommodate the storage of any data in a suitable digital format. Although the description of computer readable media above refers to a HDD a removable magnetic diskette and a removable optical media such as a CD or DVD it should be appreciated by those skilled in the art that other types of media which are readable by a computer such as zip drives magnetic cassettes flash memory cards cartridges and the like may also be used in the exemplary operating environment and further that any such media may contain computer executable instructions for performing novel methods of the disclosed architecture.

A number of program modules can be stored in the drives and RAM including an operating system one or more application programs other program modules and program data . All or portions of the operating system applications modules and or data can also be cached in the RAM . It is to be appreciated that the disclosed architecture can be implemented with various commercially available operating systems or combinations of operating systems.

A user can enter commands and information into the computer through one or more wired wireless input devices for example a keyboard and a pointing device such as a mouse . Other input devices not shown may include a microphone an IR remote control a joystick a game pad a stylus pen touch screen or the like. These and other input devices are often connected to the processing unit through an input device interface that is coupled to the system bus but can be connected by other interfaces such as a parallel port an IEEE 1394 serial port a game port a USB port an IR interface etc.

A monitor or other type of display device is also connected to the system bus via an interface such as a video adapter . In addition to the monitor a computer typically includes other peripheral output devices not shown such as speakers printers etc.

The computer may operate in a networked environment using logical connections via wired and or wireless communications to one or more remote computers such as a remote computer s . The remote computer s can be a workstation a server computer a router a personal computer portable computer microprocessor based entertainment appliance a peer device or other common network node and typically includes many or all of the elements described relative to the computer although for purposes of brevity only a memory storage device is illustrated. The logical connections depicted include wired wireless connectivity to a local area network LAN and or larger networks for example a wide area network WAN . Such LAN and WAN networking environments are commonplace in offices and companies and facilitate enterprise wide computer networks such as intranets all of which may connect to a global communications network for example the Internet.

When used in a LAN networking environment the computer is connected to the LAN through a wired and or wireless communication network interface or adapter . The adapter may facilitate wired or wireless communication to the LAN which may also include a wireless access point disposed thereon for communicating with the wireless adapter .

When used in a WAN networking environment the computer can include a modem or is connected to a communications server on the WAN or has other means for establishing communications over the WAN such as by way of the Internet. The modem which can be internal or external and a wired or wireless device is connected to the system bus via the serial port interface . In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to the computer or portions thereof can be stored in the remote memory storage device . It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are exemplary and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers can be used.

The computer is operable to communicate with any wireless devices or entities operatively disposed in wireless communication for example a printer scanner desktop and or portable computer portable data assistant communications satellite any piece of equipment or location associated with a wirelessly detectable tag e.g. a kiosk news stand restroom and telephone. This includes at least Wi Fi and Bluetooth wireless technologies. Thus the communication can be a predefined structure as with a conventional network or simply an ad hoc communication between at least two devices.

Referring now to there is illustrated a schematic block diagram of an exemplary computing environment that facilitates configuration of a home network. The environment includes one or more client s . The client s can be hardware and or software e.g. threads processes computing devices . The client s can house cookie s and or associated contextual information for example.

The environment also includes one or more server s . The server s can also be hardware and or software e.g. threads processes computing devices . The servers can house threads to perform transformations by employing the architecture for example. One possible communication between a client and a server can be in the form of a data packet adapted to be transmitted between two or more computer processes. The data packet may include a cookie and or associated contextual information for example. The environment includes a communication framework e.g. a global communication network such as the Internet that can be employed to facilitate communications between the client s and the server s .

Communications can be facilitated via a wired including optical fiber and or wireless technology. The client s are operatively connected to one or more client data store s that can be employed to store information local to the client s e.g. cookie s and or associated contextual information . Similarly the server s are operatively connected to one or more server data store s that can be employed to store information local to the servers .

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

What has been described above includes examples of the disclosed architecture. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable combination of components and or methodologies but one of ordinary skill in the art may recognize that many further combinations and permutations are possible. Accordingly the novel architecture is intended to embrace all such alterations modifications and variations that fall within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. Furthermore to the extent that the term includes is used in either the detailed description or the claims such term is intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as comprising is interpreted when employed as a transitional word in a claim.

