---

title: Stoichiometric silicon carbide fibers from thermo-chemically cured polysilazanes
abstract: A novel polycrystalline stoichiometric fine SiC fiber substantially free of impurities is produced using a novel pre-ceramic polymer. The pre-ceramic polymer is prepared by reacting a mixture of chlorodisilane, boron trichloride, and a vinyl chlorodisilane with an excess of hexamethyldisilazane to form the pre-ceramic polymer resin, which may then be melt-spun, cured, pyrolyzed and heat-treated to obtain the finished SiC fiber. The manufacturing process for the production of the fine SiC ceramic fiber allows for flexibility with respect to cross-linking, in that low-cost thermal treatments may replace more complex methods, while obtaining fibers with improved materials properties as compared to currently available SiC fibers.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08987402&OS=08987402&RS=08987402
owner: General Electric Company
number: 08987402
owner_city: Schenectady
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120221
---
This application in a continuation in part of U.S. application Ser. No. 13 037 151 filed Feb. 28 2011 which claims priority pursuant to 35 U.S.C. 119 e to U.S. provisional application Ser. No. 61 308 740 filed Feb. 26 2010 which applications are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.

This invention was made with government support under contract number FA9300 08 C 2003 awarded by the United States Air Force at AFRL. The U.S. Government has certain rights in the invention.

The present disclosure relates to stoichiometric silicon carbide SiC fibers and methods of making SiC fibers.

Various processes are known for producing fine SiC fibers but known processes are subject to certain disadvantages. For example known processes are limited to producing a SiC ceramic fiber that contains at least one of the impurities boron oxygen nitrogen or metal impurities such as aluminum zirconium or titanium. For further example known processes produce fibers with undesirably high variability in physical properties or entail an undesirably high manufacturing cost or complexity. It would be desirable to provide an SiC fiber and process for manufacturing that overcomes these and other disadvantages of the prior art.

The present disclosure describes a novel chemical formulation to generate a pre ceramic polymer and processes for manufacture of stoichiometric silicon carbide ceramic fiber from said polymer. A new chemistry is used to achieve a thermoplastic processable pre ceramic polymer with controlled rheological properties that undergoes conversion to a thermo set or non meltable solid by simple heating. The thermoplastic processable pre ceramic polymer has the potential to greatly reduce manufacturing complexity of high temperature fine SiC fibers by eliminating the necessity for electron beam irradiation facilities which are one route used to process commercial fibers today. In addition the manufacturing process disclosed may reduce materials properties variability as found in all commercial fiber systems today by removing the need for chemical or oxidative treatments during processing using the unique pre ceramic polymer blend described herein.

The precursors raw materials for synthesizing the present preceramic polymer to produce stoichiometric SiC ceramic fibers comprise a mixture of chlorodisilanes. Additional critical precursors are added to control the melting point of the thermoplastic pre ceramic polymer and also control spinning properties including melt strength and stability during extrusion and winding of the fiber. The resultant pre ceramic polymer exhibits excellent spinning fiber quality and uniformity of the green fiber. The increased chemical functionality also incorporates a well defined latent reactivity within the novel pre ceramic polymer which facilitates the conversion to a handleable green fiber by low temperature heating less than 300 C. without additional treatments such as chemical or electron beam irradiation curing.

There are significant advantages to the disclosed route over chemical curing where the surface chemistry is altered by directing reactive corrosive or oxidative species at an extruding pre ceramic polymer fiber. The green fiber chemistry is controlled during polymerization for the novel process disclosed herein and not by additional gas phase interactions described in the chemical curing process. Thermal curing for the novel pre ceramic polymer also negates the use of electron beam irradiation to render the polymer useful for ceramic fiber production at a major reduction in cost.

Practicing a method as disclosed herein results in a polycrystalline stoichiometric SiC fiber that is substantially free of any impurity in that the SiC fiber does not include detectable amounts of any material except for carbon and silicon which are present in a stoichiometric or near stoichiometric ratio. The fiber may retain a slight excess of carbon to improve sintering properties. The resulting SiC fiber is substantially free of any impurity such as for example boron oxygen or nitrogen which are removed during processing. The SiC fiber is also free of any metal impurity such as for example aluminum zirconium or titanium because no metals or metal compounds are added during processing. The SiC fiber does not include detectable amounts of any material except for carbon and silicon. The SiC fiber may have a diameter less than about 5 m or between about 5 15 m and a tensile strength greater than about 2.3 GPa.

A more complete understanding of the SiC fiber and method of manufacturing the fiber will be afforded to those skilled in the art as well as a realization of additional advantages and objects thereof by a consideration of the following detailed description of the preferred embodiment. Reference will be made to the appended sheets of drawings which will first be described briefly.

The final pre ceramic polymer is transferred as a solid to the spin line and at extruded through a spinneret at a temperature between 100 180 C. and wound onto mandrels. In a prototype process spinnerets for producing 300 500 filaments were used. Diameter of the melt spun fiber may be controlled with the winding system to achieve diameters between 15 20 micrometers m . The spooled tow of green fiber may be packaged under tension in an inert atmosphere and transferred to a thermal curing pyrolysis furnace where at the green fiber is first low temperature cured at a temperature between 100 C. and 300 C. for example at 180 C. for three hours. After low temperature thermal curing the spun fiber should be sufficiently cross linked to maintain its shape when heated above about 300 C. If cross linking is not completed subsequent pyrolysis will destroy the fiber. Use of a polymer formulation as disclosed herein should obviate the need for further cross linking steps such as for example chemical curing or electron beam irradiation. While an alternative cross linking operation may be used if desired exclusive use of low temperature thermal curing has been shown to produce a final SiC fiber with superior properties.

After cross linking at 108 the fibers are rendered infusible and pyrolyzed to a silicon carbonitride SiNC glass by heating up to 1200 C. in inert conditions at . SiNC tow is removed from the furnace after pyrolysis and at fed into a heat treatment furnace under tension at 1800 2100 C. for example at 2050 C. to remove nitrogen excess oxygen and densify the filaments to a near stoichiometric ratio 1 1 of SiC and polycrystalline form. A slight excess of carbon may be retained as a sintering aid to improve the mechanical properties.

Boron and additional chlorosilane monomer doping levels have been fully characterized and upper limits determined. To quantify boron and other impurities in heat treated fiber Auger Electron Spectroscopy AES was utilized to confirm boron oxygen and nitrogen concentrations in a finished heat treated SiC fiber. is a depth profile from the surface to defined depth by removing material through the use of an argon ion beam. The detection limit for the AES was 0.3 atomic percent. Boron nitrogen and oxygen were not detected. Except for an excess of carbon in approximately 500 angstrom surface layer carbon nitrogen ratios were stoichiometric or near stoichiometric through the entire sample. For the depicted depth profile the SiC ratio was not calibrated to stoichiometric SiC.

As shown in all three known impurities were observed to be below the detection limits of the Auger technique. No commercial SiC fiber exhibits impurities below detection limits i.e. all exhibit impurities greater than 0.3 atomic percent. Prior to heat treatment nitrogen content is approximately 40 atomic percent. All commercial fibers exhibit some detectable amount of oxygen or boron. The novel pre ceramic chemistry and heat treatment described above has facilitated the removal of these deleterious species with respect to high temperature mechanical properties. In addition the fiber is free of any metal for example aluminum zirconium or titanium unlike certain commercially available SiC ceramic fibers and no metals are added during processing.

A list of chemicals that may be utilized in the processing of heat treated SiC ceramic fiber from polymer precursors is provided below. The three main components are 

Secondary critical components utilized in this process are added in volumes less than 65 . The secondary components are used to control the polymer rheology and to enable cross linking by low temperature thermal processing and or e beam. Secondary components are selected from 

1 2 3 are added to a single pressure equalizing addition funnel and mixed well. The mixture of 1 2 3 is then added to 400 grams of HMDS and 800 grams of 1 3 divinyltetramethyldisilazane in a continuously stirred tank reactor with exhaust ports to drive of low boiling waste products. The tank is heated to 180 C. over 5 hours and treated at 180 C. for an additional 3 hours. The solid resin is then melt spun at 150 C. under inert conditions and then prepared for cross linking and pyrolysis heat treatment.

1 2 3 are added to a single pressure equalizing addition funnel and mixed well. The mixture of 1 2 3 is then added to 400 grams of HMDS in a continuously stirred tank reactor with exhaust ports to drive of low boiling waste products. The tank is heated to 180 C. over 5 hours and treated at 180 C. for an additional 3 hours. The solid resin is then melt spun at 150 C. under inert conditions and then prepared for cross linking and pyrolysis heat treatment.

1 2 3 are added to a single pressure equalizing addition funnel and mixed well. The mixture of 1 2 3 is then added to 464 grams of HMDS in a continuously stirred tank reactor with exhaust ports to drive of low boiling waste products. The tank is heated to 180 C. over 5 hours and treated at 180 C. for an additional 3 hours. The solid resin is then melt spun at 150 C. under inert conditions and then prepared for cross linking and pyrolysis heat treatment.

1 2 3 are added to a single pressure equalizing addition funnel and mixed well. The mixture of 1 2 3 is then added to 200 grams of HMDS in a continuously stirred tank reactor with exhaust ports to drive of low boiling waste products. The tank is heated to 180 C. over 5 hours and treated at 180 C. for an additional 3 hours. The solid resin is then melt spun at 150 C. under inert conditions and then prepared for cross linking and pyrolysis heat treatment.

1 2 3 are added to a single pressure equalizing addition funnel and mixed well. The mixture of 1 2 3 is then added to 400 grams of HMDS in a continuously stirred tank reactor with exhaust ports to drive of low boiling waste products. The tank is heated to 180 C. over 5 hours and treated at 180 C. for an additional 3 hours. The solid resin is then melt spun at 150 C. under inert conditions and then prepared for cross linking and pyrolysis heat treatment.

1 2 3 are added to a single pressure equalizing addition funnel and mixed well. The mixture of 1 2 3 is then added to 400 grams of HMDS in a continuously stirred tank reactor with exhaust ports to drive of low boiling waste products. The tank is heated to 180 C. over 5 hours and treated at 180 C. for an additional 3 hours. The solid resin is then melt spun at 150 C. under inert conditions and then prepared for cross linking and pyrolysis heat treatment.

Cross linking as shown at 108 of is a very crucial first step of forming strong ceramic fiber. Fibers under slight tensioning remain straight during cross linking. Fibers are free to move tend to curve and are fixed into a curved shape by cross linking. Curved ceramic fibers break early at low load later on when fiber strength is tested. Therefore it may be preferable but is not required to perform cross linking with fibers lightly tensioned whether wound on mandrels or supported in some other fashion. All cross linked fibers may be pyrolyzed in tube furnaces with programmable temperature control as was done for the examples discussed herein. The novel pre ceramic polymer disclosed herein may also be cross linked by a variety of other methods outlined in the following section. All fibers taken from synthesis examples 1 5 should cross link under the disclosed methods.

In summary of the foregoing examples and general disclosure one or more methods for preparing a pre ceramic polymer and SiC ceramic fiber from said polymer may be practiced as follows.

A mixture of chlorodisilane CDS boron trichloride and a vinyl chlorodisilane may be reacted with a mixture of hexamethyldisilazane HMDS and 1 3 divinyltetramethyldisilazane in a 1 2.5 molar ratio in excess to form a pre ceramic polymer resin. The amount of the CDS in the mixture may be controlled so that the CDS comprises a component of the mixture in the range of 30 to 60 wt more preferably 50 to 60 wt and still more preferably about 55 wt . The amount of boron trichloride may be controlled so that it comprises a component of the mixture in the range of 2 to 10 molar percent mol added based on molarity of solution to which it is added and more preferably about 2 mol .

The vinyl chlorosilane component of the mixture may be selected from the group consisting of vinylphenyldichlorosilane divinyldichlorosilane and dichloromethylvinylsilane including a mixture of two or more of these species. The vinyl chlorosilane component may be controlled so that it comprises a component of the mixture in the range of 5 to 65 wt and more preferably about 10 wt .

A rheology modifier may be added to the mixture in an amount within the range of 1 to 35 wt more preferably 5 to 25 wt and still more preferably about 15 wt . The rheology modifier may be selected from the group consisting of 1 1 3 3 tetrachloro 1 3 disilabutane vinyltrichlorosilane 2 2 4 4 6 6 hexachloro 2 4 6 trisilaheptane trichlorosilane and silicone tetrachloride including a mixture of two or more of these species. Preferably the rheology modifier comprises silane additives and is added to the mixture in an amount effective for obtaining a melt spinning temperature of the pre ceramic polymer resin in a range of about 100 to 180 C.

A pre ceramic polymer resin as thus obtained may be melt spun to obtain a pre ceramic fiber. The resulting pre ceramic fiber may be cross linked using any suitable method to obtain a cross linked fiber. Cross linking the pre ceramic fiber may be performed under tension to obtain a straight cross linked fiber. Preferably cross linking the preceramic fiber is performed by thermal curing at least partly at temperatures not greater than 300 C. without chemical or electron beam irradiation curing. In the alternative or in addition cross linking the preceramic fiber may be performed by at least one of the following thermal curing at less than 1200 C. in an inert atmosphere e beam curing chemical cross linking plasma curing or exposure to decaborane vapor.

The resulting cross linked fiber may be pyrolyzed at temperatures up to about 1400 C. to obtain a near stoichiometric SiC ceramic fiber having a microcrystalline structure. It has been found advantageous to expose the cross linked fiber to a mixture of a noble gas and hydrogen during the pyrolyzing step.

After pyrolyzing it is advantageous to heat treat the near stoichiometric SiC ceramic fiber in the range of 1400 C. to 2200 C. to obtain a heat treated stoichiometric SiC ceramic fiber substantially free of boron nitrogen and oxygen. The resulting polycrystalline stoichiometric SiC ceramic fiber is substantially free of impurities. For example the fiber is free of detectable boron oxygen or nitrogen to a detection limit not greater than 0.3 atomic percent. In some embodiments the fiber has a diameter in the range of about 8 10 m although fibers outside of this range are also within the scope of the present technology. Advantageously the fiber has a tensile strength not less than about 1.5 GPa and has been measured to exceed about 2.3 GPa although other tensile strengths may also result from a method within the scope of what is disclosed herein.

Having thus described embodiments of a method for forming a pre ceramic polymer resin a method for forming a stoichiometric SiC fiber from said pre ceramic polymer and a polycrystalline stoichiometric SiC ceramic fiber substantially free of impurities formed by the method it should be apparent to those skilled in the art that certain advantages of the described methods have been achieved. It should also be appreciated that various modifications adaptations and alternative embodiments thereof may be made within the scope and spirit of the present invention. The invention is defined by the following claims.

