---

title: Method to manufacture reduced mechanical stress electrodes and microcavity plasma device arrays
abstract: In a preferred method of formation embodiment, a thin metal foil or film is obtained or formed with microcavities (such as through holes). The foil or film is anodized symmetrically so as to form a metal-oxide film on the surface of the foil and on the walls of the microcavities. One or more self-patterned metal electrodes are automatically formed and simultaneously buried in the metal oxide created by the anodization process. The electrodes form in a closed circumference around each microcavity, and electrodes for adjacent microcavities can be isolated or connected. If the microcavity is cylindrical, the electrodes form as rings around each cavity.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08535110&OS=08535110&RS=08535110
owner: The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois
number: 08535110
owner_city: Urbana
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120320
---
This application claims priority under 35 U.S.C 120 from and is a divisional application of co pending application Ser. No. 12 152 550 which was filed May 15 2008 and which claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 from provisional application Ser. No. 60 930 393 filed May 16 2007.

This invention was made with Government assistance under U.S. Air Force Office of Scientific Research grant Nos. F49620 03 1 0391 and AF FA9550 07 1 0003. The Government has certain rights in this invention.

The invention is in the field of microcavity plasma devices also known as microdischarge devices or microplasma devices.

Microcavity plasma devices produce a nonequilibrium low temperature plasma within and essentially confined to a cavity having a characteristic dimension d below approximately 500 m. This new class of plasma devices exhibits several properties that differ substantially from those of conventional macroscopic plasma sources. Because of their small physical dimensions microcavity plasmas normally operate at gas or vapor pressures considerably higher than those accessible to macroscopic devices. For example microplasma devices with a cylindrical microcavity having a diameter of 200 300 m or less are capable of operation at rare gas as well as Nand other gases tested to date pressures up to and beyond one atmosphere.

Such high pressure operation is advantageous. An example advantage is that at these higher pressures plasma chemistry favors the formation of several families of electronically excited molecules including the rare gas dimers Xe Kr Ar . . . and the rare gas halides such as XeCl ArF and KrF that are known to be efficient emitters of ultraviolet UV vacuum ultraviolet VUV and visible radiation. This characteristic in combination with the ability of microplasma devices to operate in a wide range of gases or vapors and combinations thereof offers emission wavelengths extending over a broad spectral range. Furthermore operation of the plasma in the vicinity of atmospheric pressure minimizes the pressure differential across the packaging material when a microplasma device or array is sealed.

Research by the present inventors and colleagues at the University of Illinois has resulted in new microcavity plasma device structures as well as applications. As an example semiconductor fabrication processes have been adapted to produce large arrays of microplasma devices in silicon wafers with the microcavities having the form of an inverted pyramid. Arrays with 250 000 devices each device having an emitting aperture of 50 50 m have been demonstrated with a device packing density and array filling factor of 10cmand 25 respectively. Other microplasma devices have been fabricated in ceramic multilayer structures photodefinable glass and Al AlOstructures.

Microcavity plasma devices developed over the past decade have a wide variety of applications. An exemplary application for a microcavity plasma device array is to a display. Since the diameter of single cylindrical microcavity plasma devices for example is typically less than 200 300 m devices or groups of devices offer a spatial resolution that is desirable for a pixel in a display. In addition the efficiency of a microcavity plasma device can exceed that characteristic of conventional plasma display panels such as those in high definition televisions.

Early microcavity plasma devices exhibited short lifetimes because of exposure of the electrodes to the plasma and the ensuing damage caused by sputtering. Polycrystalline silicon and tungsten electrodes extend lifetime but are more costly materials and difficult to fabricate.

Large scale manufacturing of microcavity plasma device arrays benefits from structures and fabrication methods that reduce cost and increase reliability. Of particular interest in this regard are the electrical interconnections between devices in a large array. If the interconnect technology is difficult to implement or if the interconnect pattern is not easily reconfigurable then manufacturing costs are increased and potential commercial applications may be restricted. Such considerations are of increasing importance as the demand rises for displays or light emitting panels of larger area.

The present inventors have previously developed low cost large scale arrays and self patterned formation methods. PCT Publication No. WO 2008 013820 entitled Buried Circumferential Electrode Microcavity Plasma Device Arrays and Self Patterned Formation Method describes microcavity plasma device arrays with circumferential ring electrodes that are buried in a thin metal oxide layer and surround the microcavities while being protected from plasma in the microcavities by a thin layer of metal oxide. The microcavity plasma device arrays can be formed by a self patterned formation process in which one or more self patterned metal electrodes are automatically formed and buried in the metal oxide during the anodization process. The electrodes form as a ring around each microcavity and can be electrically isolated from or connected to the ring electrodes associated with adjacent microcavities.

As the area of arrays of microplasma devices and the device packing density number of devices per unit area are scaled to larger values maintaining flatness of the array can become problematic. Stress in such arrays the result of a mismatch in the coefficients of thermal expansion for the metal and metal oxide can cause buckling of the entire array structure and distortion in the electrode and microcavity patterns in the arrays. For example Al and AlOhave significantly different coefficients of thermal expansion. Such effects may not present difficulties for array sizes of a few cmand device packing densities on the order of 10cm or less but can have a deleterious impact on array performance as the area of the array and the packing density rise.

In a preferred method of formation embodiment a thin metal foil or film is obtained or formed with microcavities such as through holes . The foil or film is anodized symmetrically so as to form a metal oxide film on the surface of the foil and on the walls of the microcavities. One or more self patterned metal electrodes are automatically formed and simultaneously buried in the metal oxide created by the anodization process. The electrodes form in a closed circumference around each microcavity and electrodes for adjacent microcavities can be isolated or connected. If the microcavity is cylindrical the electrodes form as rings around each cavity.

In a preferred method of formation embodiment a thin metal foil or film is obtained or formed with microcavities such as through holes . The foil is symmetrically anodized to form a nanoporous metal oxide on both surfaces of the foil as well as on the walls of the microcavities. One or more self patterned metal electrodes are automatically formed and buried in the metal oxide created by the anodization process. The electrodes form in a closed circumference around each microcavity and can be isolated from electrodes associated with other microcavities or the electrodes for one or more microcavities can be interconnected in a one or two dimensional pattern.

Methods of the invention form preferred electrodes and arrays of reduced stress microcavity plasma devices. A preferred embodiment array of microcavity plasma devices of the invention includes a plurality of thin first electrodes that surround microcavities in the device in a plane s transverse to the microcavities. The first electrodes are buried in a thin metal oxide layer and stress reduction structures and or geometry are incorporated into the array design to promote flatness of the overall array. In embodiments of the invention some or all of the electrodes are connected and the metal oxide surrounding the electrodes physically isolates the electrodes from plasma produced within the microcavities thereby protecting the electrodes from chemical and or physical degradation arising from contact with the plasma. Electrode connection patterns can be defined. In preferred embodiments the first electrodes comprise circumferential electrodes that surround individual microcavities.

A second electrode is buried in a second dielectric layer. The second dielectric layer is bonded to or brought in close proximity to the first layer and a packaging layer seals gas or vapor or a combination thereof within the array.

The second thin layer can include for example a common electrode. The second layer can be a solid thin metal foil buried in or encapsulated by an oxide film so as to define a common second electrode. In other embodiments the second thin layer can include an electrode pattern with or without microcavities. Preferably the second layer is formed similarly to the first layer with thin foil circumferential buried electrodes and including stress reduction structures and or geometry to promote flatness of the overall array. Such an array provides low capacitance and therefore reduced displacement current and high switching speed. Microplasma device arrays of the invention can be flexible lightweight and inexpensive. The invention further provides thin sheets of metal and metal oxide electrodes with stress reduction structures and or geometries. Low stress metal metal oxide electrodes of the invention include common electrodes of a thin foil having support ribs and parallel lines of thin metal electrodes with uniform geometry.

A preferred embodiment microplasma device array of the invention has at least a subset of the microcavities interconnected. First thin metal circumferential electrodes are buried in a metal oxide dielectric layer and at least two of the first thin metal circumferential electrodes are interconnected. The array includes stress reduction structures and or geometry to promote flatness even with thin narrow electrodes and close packing of the microcavities within the array. Large arrays can be formed that maintain flatness despite the difference between the coefficients of thermal expansion for the metal and metal oxide. Metal oxide also covers the wall of each microcavity so as to protect the first thin metal circumferential electrodes from exposure to the plasma. A second electrode s is also buried in a second metal oxide dielectric layer which is brought in close proximity to the first layer with the first electrode with its microcavity array and preferably includes stress reduction structures or geometry. This second electrode can for example comprise parallel metal lines buried in dielectric and intended to be associated with a row or column of microcavities in the array in the first layer. The second electrode can alternatively be a thin continuous sheet of metal buried in a dielectric. Microcavities may or may not be formed in the second electrode.

Microcavity devices and arrays are provided by embodiments of the invention in which thin planar circumferential metal electrodes lying in a plane s transverse to a plurality of microcavities provide power to and interconnections among the microcavities. Electrodes are buried in a dielectric such as a metal oxide and surround each microcavity. The shape of the electrode around the microcavity essentially replicates the cross sectional geometry of the microcavity circular diamond etc. . A thin film of the dielectric lies between the electrode and the edge wall of the microcavity thereby electrically insulating the electrode and providing chemical and physical isolation of the electrode from the plasma within the microcavity. That is the electrode is not flush with the microcavity wall. The array includes stress reduction structures or geometry to maintain flatness of the overall array even with thin narrow electrodes and interconnects and close packing of the microcavities within the array. Large arrays can be formed that maintain flatness over areas of hundreds of cmand beyond.

A preferred embodiment array includes a plurality of first circumferential electrodes buried in a dielectric film and some or all of these electrodes are connected. A second electrode is buried in a second dielectric layer. The second dielectric layer is bonded or otherwise brought in proximity to the first layer forming an array of devices and a packaging layer seals the desired gas es or vapor s or a combination thereof within the array. In embodiments of the invention the electrodes associated with different microcavities can be interconnected in patterns that are controllable. The array includes stress reduction structures or geometry to promote flatness of the array even with narrow thin electrodes and close packing of the microcavities within the array. Large arrays can be formed that maintain flatness over areas of at least hundreds of cm.

In a preferred method of formation the patterning of electrode interconnections between microcavities occurs automatically during the course of wet chemical processing anodization of a metal electrode. Prior to processing microcavities such as through holes of the desired shape are produced in a thin metal electrode e.g. a foil or film . In preferred embodiments fabrication is controlled so as to reduce stress in the array induced during fabrication. Preferably the anodization proceeds symmetrically. Stress reduction structures may also be formed in the thin metal electrode prior to processing. The electrode is subsequently anodized symmetrically and uniformly so as to convert metal into dielectric normally an oxide . The preferred symmetrical and uniform anodization process and microcavity placement determines whether adjacent microcavities in an array are electrically connected or not and promotes the fabrication of a low stress array.

Relative to previous microcavity plasma technologies this invention has several advantages. One is that the capacitance of the two electrode structure is reduced because the first electrodes and interconnections if any and in some preferred embodiments the second electrode as well are not in the form of a continuous sheet as has been the case with most previous technology. Much of the metal sheet that in former microplasma devices and arrays would constitute one electrode is converted in this invention into a metal oxide dielectric. Since the capacitance of a parallel plate capacitor is proportional to the electrode area the reduction in electrode area similarly reduces the capacitance of the overall structure. The reduction in capacitance similarly reduces the displacement current of an array which renders this technology of value for display and other applications for which large displacement currents are generally a liability. Incorporation of stress reduction geometries or structures permits high resolution low stress large arrays that maintain flatness over large surface areas.

Another advantage of embodiments of the present invention is that the dielectric can be a material with a large bandgap and hence is transparent in the visible and perhaps in portions of the ultraviolet UV or infrared IR regions as well.

With preferred formation methods the buried circumferential thin metal electrodes form as self patterned electrodes. The self patterned electrodes can provide for the delivery of electrical power to and interconnections among microcavity plasma devices. Circumferential electrodes are buried in a metal oxide dielectric and surround each microcavity. The shape of the circumferential electrode surrounding a microcavity essentially replicates the cross sectional geometry of the microcavity circular diamond etc. that is the electrode shape essentially matches that of a cross section of the microcavity. A thin film of the metal oxide dielectric lies between the electrode and the wall of the microcavity thereby electrically insulating the electrode and providing chemical and physical isolation of the electrode from the plasma produced within the microcavity when a gas vapor is present in the microcavity and the proper voltage is applied to the two electrodes. In embodiments of the invention the electrodes associated with different microcavities can be interconnected in patterns that are controllable. In the preferred method of formation the patterning of electrode interconnections between microcavities occurs automatically during the course of symmetrical and uniform wet chemical processing anodization of a metal foil or film. Prior to processing microcavities of the desired shape are produced in a thin metal foil or film. Furthermore preferred embodiment arrays have microcavities of differing cross sections in the same array. In preferred embodiments stress reduction geometries or structures e.g. support ribs blocking ribs or trenches are also defined or formed prior to processing. The foil or film is subsequently anodized to convert substantially all of the metal into a dielectric normally an oxide . The anodization process and microcavity placement determine whether adjacent microcavities in an array are electrically connected or not.

A fabrication method of the invention is a symmetrical wet chemical process in which self patterned circumferential electrodes are automatically formed around microcavities during this process which converts metal to metal oxide. The size cross sectional dimensions and pitch of the microcavities in a metal foil or film prior to anodization as well as the anodization parameters determine which of the microcavity plasma devices in a one or two dimensional array are connected. In a preferred embodiment a thin metal foil is obtained or fabricated with microcavities having any of a broad range of cross sections circular square etc. . In preferred embodiments the array that is formed includes one or more stress reduction structures. The foil is symmetrically anodized to form metal oxide. One or more self patterned metal electrodes are automatically formed and simultaneously buried in the metal oxide created by the symmetrical anodization process. The electrodes form uniformly around the perimeter of each microcavity and can be isolated or connected in patterns. The geometry of the oxide and or the inclusion of support structures results in reduced stress in the overall array despite different coefficients of thermal expansion for the metal and the metal oxide. The shape of the electrodes that form around the microcavities is dependent upon the shape of the microcavities prior to anodization to create the metal oxide. Thus for example cylindrical microcavities produce buried ring shaped electrodes and diamond shaped microcavities produce diamond shaped buried electrodes. The electrode around each microcavity is however not flush with the microcavity wall. Rather the electrode is covered by metal oxide a portion of which forms the wall of the microcavity.

Preferred embodiment fabrication methods are readily controlled by the parameters of the symmetrical anodization process to for example connect groups of microcavities. Electrodes can be formed so as to ignite an entire group of microcavity plasma devices such as a row or column of devices in a two dimensional array or if desired a single device in an array. The formation of the self patterned electrodes and the conversion of metal foil to metal oxide can be accomplished entirely in an acid bath. One way to produce an array of devices is to bond a thin oxide layer having patterned buried electrodes and microcavities to a second thin oxide layer also having buried electrode s . Fabrication methods of the invention are inexpensive and permit large sheets of material to be processed simultaneously. Addressable and nonaddressable arrays can be formed.

Devices of the invention are amenable to mass production techniques which may include for example roll to roll processing for the purpose of bonding the first and second thin layers each of which has buried electrodes. Embodiments of the invention provide for large arrays of microcavity plasma devices that can be made inexpensively. Also exemplary devices of the invention are flexible and at least partially transparent in the visible region of the spectrum.

The structure of preferred embodiment microcavity plasma devices of the invention is based upon thin foils or films of metal that are available or can be produced in arbitrary lengths such as on rolls. In a method of the invention a pattern of microcavities is produced in a metal foil which is subsequently symmetrically anodized thereby resulting in microcavities in a metal oxide rather than the metal with each microcavity surrounded in a plane transverse to the microcavity axis by a buried metal electrode. The geometry of the oxide and or the inclusion of stress reduction structures results in low stress despite different coefficients of thermal expansion for the metal and the metal oxide. During device operation the metal oxide protects the microcavity and electrically isolates the electrodes. Furthermore some stress reduction structures of the invention can be fabricated in the metal foil during the same step in which the microcavities are formed.

A second metal foil is also encapsulated with oxide and can be bonded to the first encapsulated foil. The second metal foil forms a second electrode s which also preferably incorporates stress reduction structures. For one preferred embodiment microcavity plasma device array of the invention no particular alignment is necessary during bonding of the two encapsulated foils. In another embodiment of the invention the second electrode comprises an array of parallel metal lines buried in the metal oxide. The entire array comprising two metal oxide layers with buried electrodes can be sealed by thin glass or quartz plates or even plastic windows for example with the desired gas or gas mixture sealed within.

Preferred materials for the thin metal electrodes and metal oxide are aluminum and aluminum oxide Al AlO . Another exemplary metal metal oxide material system is titanium and titanium dioxide Ti TiO . Other metal metal oxide material systems will be apparent to artisans. Preferred material systems permit the formation of microcavity plasma device arrays of the invention by inexpensive mass production techniques such as roll to roll processing.

The shape cross section and depth of the microcavity as well as the identity of the gas or vapor in the microcavity the applied voltage and the voltage waveform determine the plasma configuration and the radiative efficiency of a microplasma given a specific atomic or molecular emitter. The overall thickness of exemplary microplasma array structures of the invention can be for example 200 m or less making such arrays very flexible and inexpensive. Furthermore the density of microcavity plasma devices number per cmof array surface area can exceed 10cm with filling factors ratio of the array s radiating area to its overall area beyond 50 attainable.

Embodiments of the invention provide independent addressing of individual microcavity plasma devices in an array. As noted above in one embodiment the second electrode comprises one or more arrays of parallel metal lines buried in metal oxide. The entire addressable array includes two electrodes or electrode patterns separately buried in metal oxide by anodization and subsequently bonded.

Preferred embodiments will now be discussed with respect to the drawings. The drawings include schematic figures that are not to scale which will be fully understood by skilled artisans with reference to the accompanying description. Features may be exaggerated for purposes of illustration. From the preferred embodiments artisans will recognize broader aspects of the invention. Various single microplasma device and array configurations of preferred embodiments will be discussed with respect to and and various preferred stress reduction geometries structures and fabrication methods that can be used with the array configurations of and will be discussed with respect to .

A second electrode in can be a solid thin conductive foil and is buried within a second thin oxide layer e.g. a metal oxide similar to that of the first layer . However in preferred embodiments the second electrode is patterned as for example parallel lines aligned with the rows and or columns of microcavities . In one embodiment the metal lines comprising second electrode are connected electrically. In this way a common electrode can be formed as an array over a large area but the amount of metal is reduced compared to a solid thin conductive foil and the capacitance of the overall device array is thus reduced. In other embodiments the metal lines may not be connected electrically for the purpose of addressing individual microcavity devices. The second electrode is buried in or encapsulated by oxide . A discharge medium gas vapor or combination thereof is contained in the microcavities and microplasmas are produced within the microcavities when a time varying voltage waveform having the proper RMS value is supplied by generator . The driving voltage may be sinusoidal bipolar DC or unipolar DC for example.

The array can be sealed by any suitable material which can be completely transparent to emission wavelengths produced by the microplasmas or can for example filter the output wavelengths of the microcavity plasma device array so as to transmit radiation only in specific spectral regions. The array includes a transparent layer such as a thin glass quartz or plastic layer. The pressure of the discharge medium can be maintained at or near atmospheric pressure permitting the use of a very thin glass or plastic layer because of the small pressure differential across the sealing layer . Polymeric vacuum packaging such as that used in the food industry to seal various food items may also be used in which case the layer will extend past the edge of and would be sealed to another layer of the same material enclosing array from the bottom.

It is within each microcavity that a plasma discharge will be produced. The first and second electrodes are spaced apart a distance from each other by the sum of the respective thicknesses of their oxide layers. The oxide thereby isolates the first and second electrodes from one another and additionally isolates each electrode from the discharge medium plasma contained in the microcavities . This arrangement permits the application of a time varying AC RF bipolar or pulsed DC etc. potential between the electrodes to excite the gaseous or vapor medium so as to create a microplasma in each microcavity .

In a preferred formation process of the invention a thin metal foil having a pattern of microcavities with the desired cross sectional geometry already present is obtained. The microcavities may extend partially or completely through the metal foil the latter is illustrated in A and B . A metal foil can have a pattern of microcavities such as through holes produced in it by any of a variety of techniques including microdrilling laser micromachining chemical etching or mechanical punching. Foils with pre formed microcavities in the form of through holes of various shapes are available commercially.

The next step is to convert much of the metal foil into metal oxide by a symmetrical anodization process. This process is controlled so as to result in self patterned first electrodes see which surround each microcavity. These metal rings around each microcavity buried in metal oxide can be connected in various patterns or a single interconnected electrode may be formed if desired. Through control of the parameters of the anodization process molar concentration temperature process times etc. the dimensions of the buried electrodes and interconnections if any can be varied and specified.

The method of formation is suitable for large scale processing and is inexpensive. Buried self patterned electrodes are formed automatically by symmetrical anodization a wet chemical process. Consequently the process is inexpensive and ideally suited for processing large areas. Producing electrodes for an array by thin film deposition techniques is comparatively expensive. Therefore while minimizing the equivalent capacitance of a light emitting array is important to its high frequency electrical characteristics such as switching time patterning the electrode by conventional deposition processes raises the cost of the array and the complexity of the fabrication process. With the formation method of the invention the electrode area can be reduced dramatically without adding complexity to the fabrication process.

Prototype arrays according to exemplary embodiments of the invention have been fabricated and tested. Specifically linear arrays of microcavity plasma devices have been realized by anodizing in oxalic acid an aluminum foil into which a pattern of cylindrical microcavities in the form of through holes had previously been formed. For these exemplary arrays the thickness of the Al foil is 127 m and the diameter and pitch center to center spacing of the circular holes are 250 m and 200 m respectively. Anodizing the foil in a 0.3 M solution of oxalic acid at 25 C. for 7 hours converts most of the aluminum foil to aluminum oxide AlO but leaves behind a patterned thin layer of Al that is buried in AlO as shown in and . This patterned thin layer of Al is well suited as an electrode to produce microplasmas in the cavities of . Stated another way the anodization process selectively converts Al into AlOsuch that if the anodization process is terminated at the appropriate time the remaining Al will serve as an electrode s for individual microplasma devices in an array or as an electrode s interconnecting some or all of the microcavities in a microcavity plasma device array.

The ring structure of the circumferential electrodes formed by this process shown in cross section in A and B is the result of the dynamics of the anodization process near a microcavity in a metal foil or film. Some distance away from the microcavity anodization of a foil immersed in the anodization bath proceeds uniformly on each side of the foil e.g. an Al foil resulting in a thin Al sheet whose thickness decreases with anodization time encapsulated in a transparent AlOfilm whose thickness increases with processing time. Near the microcavity however the process proceeds differently because acid within the hole is also participating in anodization. Therefore in the vicinity of the perimeter of the microcavity anodization is moving inward from both sides of the foil but at the same time it is also proceeding outward away from the microcavity. However the conversion of Al into AlOis slower within the microcavities than outside i.e. on the surface because the flow of fresh acid into the small diameter channel microcavity is restricted. The result is that the cross section of the Al electrode is flared near the microcavity and an AlOlayer of thickness now lines the microcavity. Also the inner surface of the electrode the surface facing the microcavity is essentially parallel to the microcavity wall. Thus this process forms a ring electrode that is essentially equidistant from the microcavity wall. Furthermore in the vicinity of the microcavity the electrode cross section has the form of an arrowhead or triangular shape.

The buried circumferential electrodes form automatically during the anodization process as a result of the flow of oxalic acid into the microcavities. The arrowhead cross sectional shape of the metal electrodes that surround the microcavities see e.g. A and B is produced by the nonuniform reaction rate for anodization near the microcavity. Away from the microcavity the conversion of the metal foil into metal oxide can proceed to near completion if desired but close to the microcavity more metal remains because the reaction rate falls near the microcavity owing to the restricted movement of acid into the microcavity as well as the slow removal of the chemical products of anodization from the microcavity . The result of this process is that self patterned electrodes buried in metal oxide are formed or more precisely left by the anodization process around the microcavities. It should be emphasized that these formed structures can be modified into various geometries with the implementation of a patterning process or selective anodization techniques such as those facilitated by masking .

In buried circumferential electrodes surrounding each microcavity include interconnections to form a single continuous electrode for the linear array of microcavities shown in . In a preferred embodiment interconnections are the result of the non separation or merged nature of adjacent circumferential electrodes around individual microcavities which can be used to connect both small and large groups of microcavities to form for example addressable microcavity plasma device arrays. As described above with respect to preferred formation processes microcavity spacing and the duration and conditions of the anodizing process can leave interconnections as continuous with adjacent electrodes or if preferred the electrical connections between adjacent devices may be severed if the anodization process is allowed to proceed sufficiently far.

Experiments have also demonstrated that self patterned buried electrodes can be formed to electrically connect arrays of microcavities. A portion of a linear Al AlOarray of 250 m dia. interconnected microcavities is shown in . This photograph taken from above shows that away from the linear array Al was essentially completely converted into AlOwhich is transparent in the visible region. Also the buried Al rings around each microcavity which appear as white circles because the microcavity array is backlit in this photograph are clearly evident. When operated with 400 Torr of Ne for example the arrays of produce uniform glow discharges in each cavity. Operation at pressures up to approximately one atmosphere has been demonstrated to date and many gases in addition to Ne and vapors are well suited for these microplasma device arrays.

An addressable microcavity plasma device array embodiment of the invention is illustrated schematically in . In reference numbers from previous figures are used to label comparable parts. The first electrodes in are buried circumferential electrodes in the form of a ring around each microcavity. The electrodes are buried in and protected by a first thin layer of oxide . Interconnections connect linear arrays of electrodes . The second electrode comprises parallel line electrodes buried in a thin oxide layer . By aligning line electrodes with rows and or columns of microcavities in the first thin layer of oxide microcavity devices or a linear array of such devices are formed which are capable of being addressed individually.

In the electrodes are seen to have a different shape than the buried circumferential electrodes . In preferred embodiment addressable arrays rows are separated to avoid cross talk. The second electrodes in can also be formed by the preferred methods described above for the formation of buried circumferential electrodes. However a subsequent patterning process lithography can be used to define row spacings and for the extension of metal lines connecting electrodes around microcavities .

Stress reduction can be incorporated into any of the embodiments. illustrate preferred embodiment patterned and common electrodes and formation methods for producing patterned and common electrodes respectively having a geometry for a low stress microcavity plasma device array of the invention. The processes in produce a metal oxide geometry that reduces stress in the array.

In support ribs are used to control the anodization process that converts metal to metal oxide. In the blocking support ribs which can be formed from common photoresist are aligned with the desired position of an electrode that will result after full anodization. The support ribs are formed after a thin 5 m layer of metal oxide is first grown on a metal foil . The presence of the thin metal oxide simplifies handling of the metal foil . The process results in parallel lines of electrodes buried in oxide which can be aligned and bonded to a microcavity array to form an array of microcavity plasma devices. The blocking layers in serve not only to define the position of the buried metal electrode after anodization is concluded but also provide the support of the metal foil to prevent buckling of the foil during the anodization process.

Another important step in minimizing stress in the arrays during fabrication is to ensure that the anodization process is both symmetrical and uniform. is a simplified diagram of the electrochemical anodization process by which metal oxide e.g. AlO is grown from metal foil e.g. Al . The process uses two cathodes spaced evenly apart from a metal foil to be anodized in anodizing solution to achieve anodization of the metal foil anode in a symmetrical fashion thereby dramatically reducing tension in the finished electrode as compared to anodization using a single cathode.

Experimental prototypes have demonstrated the advantages of using the fabrication techniques described above. A pattern of parallel Al electrodes lines buried in AlOby the anodization process of was formed. The parallel Al lines were clearly visible whereas the remainder of the foil was transformed by anodization into transparent AlO. The ends of the aluminum lines were exposed as illustrated in . The processes of combine standard photolithography with anodization to yield an inexpensive means of producing linear arrays of metal lines that are well suited for addressing microcavity plasma arrays. Aluminum is ideal for this application because of its high electrical and thermal conductivity. Furthermore the process leaves the Al interconnect lines buried in AlOwhich protects the interconnects from chemical corrosion and erosion arising from potential exposure to the plasma. Silver is currently used in plasma TVs PDPs for interconnects addressing lines but Al is more than two orders of magnitude less expensive than Ag.

Stress reduction has a profound impact on the performance of Al AlOmicroplasma arrays. Prototypes have demonstrated the benefit of stress reduction processing and geometry. Low stress arrays are almost perfectly flat and have improved pixel to pixel emission uniformity over areas of 25 cmand more.

The electrode microcavity assembly resulting from the process sequence of can serve as one layer of a two layer microplasma array structure such as that shown in . In this embodiment of the invention two sheets fabricated according to are arranged and bonded by bonding agent such that microcavities are aligned as illustrated in . The bonding agent can be a sealing agent such as a glass fit. The electrodes associated with each microcavity enable addressing of the microcavities as would be desirable for a display. All of the electrodes in the top sheet for example could be part of a horizontal linear array that is oriented left to right whereas each of the lower electrodes in the bottom sheet could be a member of an array of separate addressing lines that are oriented orthogonal to the page.

Stress relief voids are used in additional preferred embodiments illustrated in . Voids are formed in metal foil before after or at the same time as the microcavities. By producing voids prior to anodization stress is relieved during the anodization process and also thereafter. As for all of the structures discussed earlier this array is inexpensive and uncomplicated to manufacture. Microcavities are again produced in metal foil by any one of a variety of methods including mechanical punching chemical etching and laser ablation. Furthermore rectangular slots or other shapes are also produced in the same fashion as the microcavities. The voids lie between each row or column of microcavities and the voids serve to alleviate the propagation and buildup of stress within the array. For mechanical stability and strength a thin bridge of metal is preferably retained between adjacent voids. These bridges improve the mechanical integrity of the structure. Also if L and S denote the pitch between adjacent microcavities in a row of microcavities and the minimum distance from a microcavity to the near edge of a rectangular slot respectively then it is desirable in general to have S L S is substantially larger than L . shows that once the proper configuration of microcavities and voids is obtained the final step is to anodize. Having stress relief voids between every row or column of microcavities may not be necessary. Situating them after every second or more row may be sufficient.

Embodiments of the invention based on metal films and which are formed around a substrate B are shown in . In this design a layer of metal is deposited onto both sides of a substrate . Prior to depositing the metal films one or more microcavities having the desired geometry are produced in the substrate by any of a variety of processes. After the desired microcavity array is produced the metal film is deposited onto the substrate and the metal is subsequently anodized. Anodization converts metal into metal oxide leaving behind the circumferential electrodes . If the microcavities are cylindrical in cross section the self patterned electrodes will be cylindrical. However the anodization process stops when the substrate is reached and therefore the process can be said to be self limiting. This structure and formation method limits the volume of metal to be anodized and has other advantages. One of these is that the substrate provides mechanical support for the thin metal oxide layer and serves as a spacer of precise thickness between the electrodes . Since the anodization process requires only low temperatures typically 50 C. the substrate can be chosen from a wide variety of materials including plastics and Kapton.

The substrate can be flexible and or transparent if desired. The only requirement for the substrate is that it should be impervious to the acid used in the anodization process. Flexible polymer film or glass are acceptable choices for the substance. Also when the metal layer is deposited metal can also be deposited into each microcavity . Anodization will therefore also produce a thin metal oxide film lining the microcavity wall.

Arrays of the invention have many applications. Addressable devices can be used as the basis for both large and small high definition displays with one or more microcavity plasma devices forming individual pixels or sub pixels in the display. Microcavity plasma devices in preferred embodiment arrays as discussed above are able to produce ultraviolet radiation suitable for exciting a phosphor so as to realize full color displays over large areas. An application for a non addressable or addressable array is for example as the light source backlight unit for a liquid crystal display panel. Embodiments of the invention provide a lightweight thin and distributed source of light that is preferable to the current practice of using a fluorescent lamp as the backlight source. Distributing the light from a localized lamp in a uniform manner over the entire rear surface of the liquid crystal display requires sophisticated optics. Arrays of the invention also have application for example in sensing and detection equipment such as chromatography devices and for phototherapeutic treatments including photodynamic therapy . The latter include the treatment of psoriasis which requires ultraviolet light at 308 nm actinic keratosis and Bowen s disease or basal cell carcinoma. Inexpensive arrays sealed in glass or plastic now provide the opportunity for patients to be treated in a nonclinical setting i.e. at home and for disposal of the array following the completion of treatment. These arrays are also well suited for the photocuring of polymers which also requires ultraviolet radiation or as large area thin light panels for applications in which low level lighting is desired.

In addition to its application to interconnecting microplasma devices the formation method of the invention is applicable to inexpensively forming electrodes and interconnects for microelectronics and MEMs systems arrays of capacitors micro cooling devices and systems and printed circuit board PCB technologies.

While various embodiments of the present invention have been shown and described it should be understood that other modifications substitutions and alternatives are apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art. Such modifications substitutions and alternatives can be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention which should be determined from the appended claims.

