---

title: Web based system using events and pushed web content to interact with remote users for notifications and data collections
abstract: In a system and method for a web based system using events and pushed web content to interact with remote users for notifications and data collections operations may be performed including receiving, from a computing device, event data concerning a job being performed by a piece of agricultural equipment wherein the event data includes an identifier associated with the agricultural equipment. A database may be queried to determine a subscriber associated with the identifier. The event data may be transmitted to a network address associated with the subscriber. A response message may be received from the subscriber and forwarded to the computing device. The computing device may connect with the subscriber via a web application address included in the response message.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09584625&OS=09584625&RS=09584625
owner: Raven Industries, Inc.
number: 09584625
owner_city: Sioux Falls
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120709
---
This patent application claims the benefit of priority under 35 U.S.C. Section 119 e to Fowler U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 505 662 titled WEB BASED SYSTEM USING EVENTS AND PUSHED WEB CONTENT TO INTERACT WITH REMOTE USERS FOR NOTIFICATIONS AND DATA COLLECTIONS filed on Jul. 8 2011 which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

Example embodiments of the present application generally relate to event based notifications systems and more particularly to a web based system using events and pushed web content to interact with remote users for notifications and data collections.

Computers on modern precision agricultural equipment may monitor multiple readings of the equipment while completing a job. For example the fuel level of the equipment and the rate of chemical being applied may both be monitored by the computer. When a job is completed an equipment operator may then contact someone to obtain the next job. However this creates a disjointed process in which the information being collected by the computer is not easily accessible to third parties that may have an interest in how the equipment is doing while on the job as well as provide information to the operators before during or after a job.

Although the present invention has been described with reference to specific example embodiments it will be evident that various modifications and changes may be made to these embodiments without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the specification and drawings are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense.

A data exchange platform in an example form of an event processing server may provide server side functionality via a network to one or more devices e.g. computing device customer web service third party subscriber .

Network may include local area networks LAN wide area networks WAN wireless networks e.g. 802.11 or cellular network the Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN network ad hoc networks personal area networks e.g. Bluetooth or other combinations or permutations of network protocols and network types. The network may include a single local area network LAN or wide area network WAN or combinations of LAN s or WAN s such as the Internet. The various devices coupled to network may be coupled to network via one or more wired or wireless connections

Computing device may by associated with agricultural equipment . Agricultural equipment may include but is not limited to industrial farm equipment such as tractors sprayers planters harvesters and pickup trucks used in field services. In an embodiment associated may mean computing device is integrated as an onboard computing device or located within agricultural equipment . In an embodiment computing device is a remote mobile computing device that controls a field work system such as a computer used to guide a tractor in parallel swaths and or control the application of fertilizer. In an embodiment a field is a location where work e.g. a job is preformed such as where an agricultural crop is produced and services such as chemical application is performed. While this illustrative embodiment pertains to a computing device associated with agricultural equipment the invention is not limited to use in the agricultural industry. For example the invention may be used in the construction industry with computing devices associated with various types of construction equipment.

In various embodiments computing device includes at least one processor output device network interface input device and location device. The display may be a touchscreen or non interactive display. The network interface may be configured to transmit and receive on multiple frequencies e.g. 4G 3G 802.11 etc. over network with event processing server and web application . The input device may be a keyboard touchscreen gesture capture stylus or a combination thereof. In various embodiments computing device also includes one or more applications e.g. sets of instructions that are executed by the at least processor. The executed applications may be configured to perform the functions and methods described herein. The location device may be a GPS unit that receives coordinate data from one or more satellites. In an embodiment the location device approximates location based on known locations of cellular or 802.11 access points.

In various embodiments event processing server acts as a messaging exchange server between computing device and customer web service and or third party subscriber . For example computing device may transmit event data indicating equipment has begun a job to event processing server . Event processing server may then transmit the event data to one or more of customer web service and third party subscriber based on entities that have subscribed to receive event data from computing device . In some embodiments a customer e.g. the owner of equipment authorizes the entities to receive event data . There may be more than one third party subscriber. In an embodiment a third party subscriber is entity or add on that provides data or features to computing device .

A response message may be generated from one or more of customer web service and third party subscriber and transmitted back to event processing server . Event processing server may then transmit response message to computing device . In various embodiments response message includes a URL to web application e.g. web page . Thus computing device may communicate with customer web service and third party subscriber without going through event processing server . In this manner third party subscribers may interact with an operator of equipment agricultural equipment but the third party subscribers are not given direct access to the data being collected on computing device or control of equipment .

In various embodiments event data and response messages are messages that identify information concerning a job or piece of equipment. Each message may have an event type. Event types may include but are not limited to equipment events job events environmental events web page events and job web page events. In various embodiments subscribers may subscribe to one or more event types or specific events.

Equipment events job events and environmental events may flow from computing device to event processing server and then to customer web service or third party subscriber e.g. event data . These events may also include an identifier e.g. textual or numerical string of equipment or computing device for use in determining which subscribers should receive the event data. Web page events and job web page events may flow from customer web service or third party subscriber to event processing server back to computing device computing device e.g. response message .

Equipment events may include information concerning the status of the equipment such as an operator s intention to power on power off and fuel tank levels. Job events may include job start events job pause events and job end events. In an embodiment a job event may also include an identification number of a job being performed. Environmental events may refer to location information e.g. coordinates of equipment . Collectively equipment events job events and environmental events may be considered field events.

In an embodiment a web page event includes a URL that the sender e.g. third party subscriber wants to be displayed to an operator of equipment . Displayed may mean having computing device establish a connection to the URL and display its contents on a display device. The information at the URL may include guidance related to the job being performed by equipment such as indicating there is a swamp in the northwest corner of a field location. In various embodiments a web page event also includes a priority level. Depending on a threshold or other criteria e.g. a job is in progress the computing device may choose to delay or not display the URL.

In an embodiment a job web page event also includes a URL that the sender want displayed to an operator however the web page at the URL may be interactive. For example a third party subscriber may want manual data entry of information by the operator immediately after a job has started. Before beginning a job the operator may enter in the information that is then transmitted back to the third party subscriber.

Computing device may be configured to monitor e.g. access sensor or other onboard computer data agricultural equipment and the status of jobs being performed with the equipment to determine when to send event data . For example an operator of equipment may indicate his her intention to begin a job via an input device of computing device . At this point computing device may be transmit event data identifying the equipment computing device and a job identification of the job to be performed.

Different criteria may trigger different events and subsequent event data messages. For example an event data message may be sent when a fuel sensor indicates there is less than 10 of fuel remaining. Event data may also be sent periodically regardless of triggers. For example every five minutes location data and rate of chemicals being applied of equipment may be sent as event data.

In an embodiment event management module processes information included within event data that has been received using network interface . Processing may include unencrypting event data if necessary and parsing the information. The information may include one or more of the following event type event payload job identification equipment identification and computing device identification. The event payload may be the information related to the event type. For example if the event type is an environmental type the payload may include the coordinates of the equipment. Some event data may not have a payload as the event type is the information e.g. job start event .

In various embodiments event management module provides an interface e.g. webpage to configure initialize equipment such that customers and third parties can subscribe to event data for the equipment. For example a customer may login to event processing server and input the identifiers of the equipment and computing device owned by the customer. For each equipment piece or computing device an interface may be provided to the customer that lists the various event data types available and which third parties should receive event data associated with the event types. Furthermore the customer may enter in the URLs associated with the third party for use in sending the event data to the subscriber.

In an embodiment subscriber database is a flat file or relational database however any storage arrangement may be used e.g. No SQL systems or couchDB . Subscriber database may include one or more data entries that associate one or more of an equipment identifier job identifier computing device identifier and event types with one or more customers or third parties. Additionally subscriber database may store entries that associate a customer or third party with a URL. As an example subscriber database may have an entry that third party Corp A. is subscribed to job start events for equipment identifier 1423. Subscriber database may represent the information entered by the customer using event management module .

In various embodiments subscriber database further stores an indication of whether a customer e.g. an owner manager of equipment has authorized a third party to receive event data for equipment . For example subscriber database may store one or more authentication keys e.g. tokens verification codes for a customer. When a request is made from a third party to send a response message e.g. a URL to computing device the third party will include their authentication key.

In an embodiment authentication module compares the authentication key received from the third party with the authorized authentication keys associated with the customer. If there is a match the response message is forwarded to computing device . If no match is found a request may be sent to the customer e.g. e mail to determine if the unauthorized third party requester should be allowed to communicate with computing device .

In various embodiments authentication module provides an interface e.g. web page to a customer to enter in authorized third parties for each piece of equipment or computing device under the customer s control. In some embodiments authentication module generates the authorization keys for the authorized third parties for the customer. The customer may revoke authorization for a third party at any time via the interface. Entries within subscriber database may be updated according to the authorizations made by the customer.

Referring back to event management module processing of event data may include querying subscriber database to determine where to forward the event data. Querying may include using the event type job identification equipment identification or computing device identification as an input to the database. The results of the query may indicate the subscribers third party of customer web services event data is to be forwarded to.

Using the URL associated with a subscriber as stored in the subscriber database event API may format a request e.g. HTTP POST to the URL. In an embodiment the request may include header information that identifies the originating computing device e.g. computing device . The request may be formatted according to a standardized format e.g. name value pairs such that the subscriber can parse the information included in the request. In an embodiment the request is encrypted.

In an embodiment event application programming interface API is further configured to listen for response messages received via network interface from one or more subscribers. In an embodiment an API is a specification of various functions or routines for the exchange and manipulation of data. For example event API may have a function which when called by a subscriber formats response message to be sent to computing device . In an embodiment the subscriber formats an HTTP POST request that identifies an intended computing device or equipment for the message and calls the API function at an address managed by event processing server . The message may include a URL and a priority level. Additionally the API call may require an identification of a client that has authorized the subscriber to send messages to computing device as well as an authorization key. The authorization key may be verified as discussed with respect to authentication module .

In various embodiments network interface is configured to communicate with computing device using a proprietary transport protocol. In an embodiment network interface is configured to communicate with subscribers using an open protocol such as HTTP.

At block in an embodiment an operation of receiving at a server from a computing device associated with the agricultural equipment event data concerning a job being performed by the agricultural equipment is performed. The event data may include an identifier of the agricultural equipment. In an embodiment the server is event processing server .

The event data may include data that identifies a status of a job being performed with the piece of equipment. For example the status may indicate a job has ended. The job status may have been set by an operator of the equipment via an input on the computing device. Event data may also include the status of the equipment. For example the status may indicate the equipment will be powered off or is powered off.

At block in an embodiment an operation of querying using at least one processor of the server a database of subscribers using the identifier to determine a subscriber of the identifier is performed.

At block in an embodiment an operation of transmitting from the server the event data to a network address associated with the subscriber is performed.

At block in an embodiment an operation of receiving at the server a response message from the subscriber is performed. The response message may include a location e.g. a URL of the web application. The web application may provide information concerning a current job or a new job assignment if the event data indicates the current job has ended.

At block in an embodiment an operation of forwarding from the server the response message to the computing device is performed. The computing device may process the response message to access the URL and establish communication with a web application served at the URL thereby allowing the computing device to communicate with the subscriber via the web application. In an embodiment the event data is received using a first transport protocol e.g. a proprietary protocol and the event data is transmitted using a second transport protocol e.g. HTTP the first and second transport protocols being different. Thus in an embodiment the subscriber cannot communicate with the computer device until the URL is transmitted to the computing device from the server.

In an embodiment the server determines if the subscriber is authorized to send response messages to the computing device before the response message is forwarded. For example the response message may include an authorization key that is verified.

At block in an embodiment an operation of generating event data associated with a job being performed by a piece of agricultural equipment in a geographic location is performed.

Generating may include a computing device that monitors parameters of the equipment e.g. fuel levels rate of chemical being applied power status of components . The computing device may be located proximate to the equipment. Proximate may mean that the computing device is within the equipment or located on the equipment such that if the equipment moves the computing device moves with the equipment.

The event data may include a job start notification indicating the piece of equipment is to begin a job in the geographic location. The indication of the job start may have been inputted into the computing device by an operator of the equipment. In an embodiment the event data may include a low fuel e.g. fuel below a specified threshold event associated with the piece of equipment.

At block in an embodiment an operation of transmitting from the computing device the event data to an event server is performed.

At block in an embodiment an operation of receiving at the computing device a response message from the event server based in part on the event data is performed. The response message may include a link URL to a web application associated with a subscriber of the event data. In an embodiment a priority level is included in the response message.

At block in an embodiment an operation of establishing communication from the computing device to the subscriber via the web application is performed. In an embodiment data from the URL e.g. the web application is displayed on a display device of the computing device when the priority level of the response message is greater than a threshold. The data may include a rate at which to apply a chemical in the geographic location.

The example computer system includes a processor e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU or both a main memory and a static memory which communicate with each other via a bus . The computer system may further include a video display unit e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD or a cathode ray tube CRT . The computer system also includes an alphanumeric input device e.g. a keyboard a user interface UI navigation device e.g. a mouse a disk drive unit a signal generation device e.g. a speaker and a network interface device .

The disk drive unit includes a machine readable medium on which is stored one or more sets of instructions and data structures e.g. software embodying or utilized by any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The software may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory and or within the processor during execution thereof by the computer system the main memory and the processor also constituting machine readable media.

The software may further be transmitted or received over a network via the network interface device utilizing any one of a number of well known transfer protocols e.g. HTTP .

While the machine readable medium is shown in an example embodiment to be a single medium the term machine readable medium should be taken to include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more sets of instructions e.g. storage device . The term machine readable medium shall also be taken to include any medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying a set of instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the present invention or that is capable of storing encoding or carrying data structures utilized by or associated with such a set of instructions. The term machine readable medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories optical media and magnetic media.

Certain embodiments are described herein as including logic or a number of components modules or mechanisms. Modules may constitute either software modules e.g. code embodied 1 on a non transitory machine readable medium or 2 in a transmission signal or hardware implemented modules. A hardware implemented module is tangible unit capable of performing certain operations and may be configured or arranged in a certain manner. In example embodiments one or more computer systems e.g. a standalone client or server computer system or one or more processors may be configured by software e.g. an application or application portion as a hardware implemented module that operates to perform certain operations as described herein

The Abstract of the Disclosure is provided to comply with 37 C.F.R. 1.72 b requiring an abstract that will allow the reader to quickly ascertain the nature of the technical disclosure. It is submitted with the understanding that it will not be used to interpret or limit the scope or meaning of the claims. In addition in the foregoing Detailed Description it can be seen that various features are grouped together in a single embodiment for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure. This method of disclosure is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed embodiments require more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather as the following claims reflect inventive subject matter lies in less than all features of a single disclosed embodiment. Thus the following claims are hereby incorporated into the Detailed Description with each claim standing on its own as a separate embodiment.

