---

title: Methods and systems for analyzing data of an online social network
abstract: Method of analyzing data from an online social network having a set of network users. The method includes obtaining topic-specific messages sent by the network users. The messages have social content provided by the networks users, wherein the messages include a marker of interest in the social content. The marker of interest is associated with a topic of the social network. The method also includes identifying the network users that sent the messages having the marker of interest in the social content as interested users of the topic. The interested users are a subset of the set of network users. The method also includes determining a topic-specific influence (TSI) value of a designated user from the interested users in the subset. The TSI value of the designated user is based on a number of the interested users that are registered to receive the messages from the designated user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08775429&OS=08775429&RS=08775429
owner: Northwestern University
number: 08775429
owner_city: Evanston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120403
---
The present application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 471 550 filed on Apr. 4 2011 which is incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The subject matter described and or illustrated herein relates generally to systems methods and computer readable media for mining and analyzing data from a social network and more particularly identifying influential users in the social network or and or related topics of the social network.

Online social networks provide a platform for a number of users of the social network to interact with other users through electronic communication. Examples of such social networks include Twitter Facebook MySpace Friendster LinkedIn Google and Orkut. Social networks may enable users to create personal profiles that can be accessed by other users. Social networks may also allow users to send and receive messages to share ideas activities events pictures and interests with other users of the social network. For example Twitter allows users to send and receive messages called tweets. The messages typically include text but pictures may also be sent. Users send and receive messages that are related to various topics such as current events sports movies natural disasters political protests celebrities technology and personal interests. Users of the social networks also may search for messages from other users that are related to a particular topic. For example if a user was interested in monitoring messages about a recent national disaster or a favorite musical group the user could search for messages having the desired topic on the social network.

In some social networks users may be followers of other users. More specifically user A may follow user B in that user A is subscribed to receive messages that are posted by user B but not necessarily sent only to user A or directed to user A. In such cases user B may be characterized as having influence over user A and other users that follow user B because user A has agreed to receive messages from user B. Generally the more followers that a user has on a social network the more influence the user is perceived to have in the social network. For a user who is only followed by close family and friends or a relatively small number of other users his or her influence may be limited. Other users may have a greater influence such as celebrities musical groups and political nominees due to their larger number of followers.

Given the popularity of social networks and the vast amounts of information that is communicated each day in the social networks various academic studies have been performed to study the interaction between users of a social network. For example researchers have sought to develop metrics for identifying those users who have more influence hereinafter referred to as influential users . But academic researchers are not the only ones interested in the dynamics of social networks. For instance businesses also may wish to identify influential users. Businesses could hire the influential users of the social network to write a positive message about the business or a positive review of a product or service that the business manufactures or provides. In particular businesses may wish to identify users who are influential with respect to a specific topic. For example a user of the social network who posts messages about cancer research may not be considered influential to the general public but may have influence with those in the area of cancer research who read the messages from the user.

Another capability that is desired by academics and businesses is the ability to effectively identify related topics on a social network. Knowing the topics that are related to each other businesses could use this information to provide better services to customers or market more effectively to potential customers. For example if a store learns that users of the social network are interested in school supplies and a particular television show then the store may wish to advertise a back to school sale during commercials of that television show.

Accordingly a need exists to identify influential users of a social network including topic specific influential users and or related topics of the social network.

In one embodiment a method of analyzing data from an online social network having a set of network users is provided. The network users are capable of communicating with one another through the social network. The method includes obtaining topic specific messages sent by the network users. As used herein a message may include social content and or metadata. The social content of the message can include an expression s from a network user that is intended to be communicated to another network user. For example the expressions may include textual content and or images. The textual content may be expressions written e.g. typed by an individual or expressions voiced by the individual that are transcribed into textual content. The terms textual content and expressions are not intended to be limiting. For example textual content not only includes textual terms that form complete and grammatically correct sentences but also includes textual terms that may not satisfy established standards or etiquette. Textual content or textual terms may be a single word multiple words words that form a clause or sentence misspelled word s emoticon s slang abbreviation s etc. Images may be pictures or video including gifs animation etc. . In some cases the images are not viewed directly from the message but are connected to the message through a link in the message. If the network user that received the message activates the link the image may then be displayed to the network user. Expressions may also include sound files. The sound files may include recordings from the network user that sent the message or recordings from third parties e.g. songs famous movie lines .

As used herein metadata includes data that describes the data of the message and or the network user that sent the message. Metadata may not be perceivable in the message by the network user that receives or views the message. In some cases however the network user that sent the message or received the message may be able to view the metadata by taking affirmative steps e.g. selecting options to view the metadata in addition to merely viewing the message upon receipt or posting. By way of example metadata may include one or more of an identification number e.g. 17932456 that correlates to the identification of the network user that prepared the message e.g. author of the message a message identifier e.g. number that identifies a message with respect to all other messages in the social network including other messages provided by the network user that sent the message creation date e.g. day month year and time of day of the message modification date s of the message that correspond to dates when the message was changed biographical or personal information about the network user e.g. age gender ethnicity a uniform resource locator or universal resource locator URL that corresponds to an address of the network user e.g. the network user s webpage on the social network creation date of the network user s account number of other network users that the network user is registered to receive messages from number of other network users that are registered to receive messages from the network user the network user s selected language a level of permissions or protections that the user has selected for the message e.g. the message is only intended to be read by family members a location from which the message was sent e.g. at least one of a building street location city state region country data regarding the user interface that sent the message e.g. the user interface provided by the social network or the user interface provided by a third party application and the like.

The messages may have social content provided by the networks users where the messages include a marker of interest otherwise referred to herein as a key marker in the social content. As used herein a marker of interest or key marker includes an identifiable or designated term word phrase number symbol or image including a portion of an image in the message or in the metadata of the message. The key marker s may be used to identify a characteristic of the message such as a topic of the message. For example the marker of interest may be a textual term that is associated with or correlates to a social topic. If the marker of interest includes textual content the textual content may include one word or a phrase. More than one marker of interest may be identified in a message.

The key marker can be associated with a topic of the social network. The method also includes identifying the network users that sent the messages having the key marker in the social content as interested users of the topic. The interested users are a subset of the set of network users. The method also includes determining a topic specific influence TSI value of a designated user from the interested users in the subset. The TSI value of the designated user is based on a number of the interested users that are registered to receive the messages from the designated user.

In another embodiment a system configured to analyze data from an online social network having a set of network users is provided. The network users are capable of communicating with one another through the social network. The system includes an analysis module configured to analyze messages sent by the network users. The messages have social content that includes at least one of textual terms or images provided by the networks users. The messages include a key marker in the social content. The key marker is associated with a topic of the social network. The system also includes an identification module that is configured to identify the network users that sent the messages having the key marker in the social content as interested users of the topic. The interested users are a subset of the set of network users. The system also includes a value generating module that is configured to determine a topic specific influence TSI value of a designated user from the interested users in the subset. The TSI value of the designated user is based on a number of the interested users that are registered to receive the messages from the designated user.

In a further embodiment a non transitory computer readable medium configured to rank commercial products or services is provided. The computer readable medium includes instructions to command a processor to analyze messages sent by the network users. The messages include social content that has at least one of textual terms or images provided by the networks users. The instructions also command the processor to determine whether the messages include a key marker in the social content. The key marker is associated with a topic of the social network. The instructions also command the processor to identify the network users that sent the messages having the key marker in the social content as interested users of the topic. The interested users are a subset of the set of network users. The instructions also command the processor to determine a topic specific influence TSI value of a designated user from the interested users in the subset. The TSI value of the designated user is based on a number of the interested users that are registered to receive the messages from the designated user.

The following detailed description of certain embodiments will be better understood when read in conjunction with the appended drawings. To the extent that the Figures illustrate diagrams of functional blocks of various embodiments the functional blocks are not necessarily indicative of the division between hardware. Thus for example one or more of the functional blocks may be implemented in a single piece of hardware or multiple pieces of hardware. It should be understood that the various embodiments are not limited to the arrangements and instrumentality shown in the drawings. Additionally the system blocks in the various Figures or the steps of the methods may be rearranged or reconfigured.

As used herein an element or step recited in the singular and proceeded with the word a or an should be understood as not excluding plural of said elements or steps unless such exclusion is explicitly stated. Furthermore references to one embodiment an exemplary embodiment some embodiments and the like are not intended to be interpreted as excluding the existence of additional embodiments that also incorporate the recited features. Moreover unless explicitly stated to the contrary embodiments comprising or having an element or a plurality of elements having a particular property may include additional such elements that do not have that property.

Embodiments described herein may analyze data of an online social network to identify various characteristics or features of the social network. For instance data derived from communications may be analyzed to identify one or more influential users of the social network and or to identify related topics on the social network. The data analyzed include messages provided by the social network users or network users. The messages may be analyzed for social content that is provided in the message e.g. text or images and may also be analyzed for metadata e.g. information attached to the message that is about the message and or the user that is not generally viewable in the message . In various embodiments the messages may be analyzed to identify if a marker of interest exists in the message. Markers of interest as described in greater detail below may be textual terms e.g. words or phrases symbols images or a combination thereof that are associated with a message topic. A marker of interest may also be identified in the metadata. The messages that correspond to a designated topic and data about the users that provided the messages of the designated topic may be further analyzed to determine influential users and or related topics. The messages relating to the designated topics and the corresponding users may also be analyzed to identify other features of the social network.

As used herein an online social network includes an online platform website and or application that enables individuals that are users of the social network or network users to communicate electronically with one another through the network and or through third party applications that are designed to interface with the social network. Non limiting examples of online social networks include Twitter Facebook MySpace Friendster LinkedIn Google and Orkut. As will be described in greater detail below social networks allow users to be communicatively linked to other users so that messages posted from one network user are sent to and received by or otherwise available for viewing or consumption by other network user s . As used herein the term receive and forms thereof may include a user obtaining a message sent to the user the user viewing a message that is posted or otherwise published for viewing on a website but not necessarily sent directly to the user and the like. Social networks may include user interfaces that enable the network users to view messages from other network users and or post messages for other network users to view. In many cases the network user has a webpage that is generated by the social network and modified with information that is input by the network user.

In many social networks a particular network user also referred to as a designated user can determine user relationships with one or more other network users. In particular the designated user may choose or decide a level of communication to allow with other network users. For example the designated user can decide whether messages sent by another user will be received by the designated user or viewable to the designated user. A designated user may also be able to decide whether another network user can view the designated user s profile e.g. webpage with personal information about the designated user and or view or receive messages from the designated user. In some cases the designated user may choose from various levels of user relationships. For instance the designated user may decide to establish different levels of communication with family members friends and coworkers. As one example a first network user having the user relationship of family may not be able to receive or view the same messages as a second network user that has the user relationship of friend. These various levels of communication with different users can be customized or otherwise controlled by the designated user such that the designated user does not need to individually control how each individual message is handled and or who can view or receive each individual message.

One or more embodiments may be directed to online social networks that have a large number of network users. By way of example a number of network users may be more than about 100 000 more than about 1 000 000 more than about 10 000 000 or more. However in other embodiments a number of network users may be less than 100 000.

As used herein a user interface may be provided by the social network s platform website application or may be provided by a third party application. For example Twitter allows third party applications to communicate with an application programming interface API of Twitter so that network users may send and receive messages through a user interface provided by the third party. As one example the third party application Seesmic allows network users to manage multiple social network accounts in addition to Twitter. The user interface is typically configured for the network user of the user interface to view messages from other network users and or send messages to other network users. In addition to permitting network users to communicate with other network users the user interface may provide games e.g. Angry Birds or Words with Friends and tools or services e.g. stock tracker or news feed that are accessible through the user interface.

Social networks may allow network users to develop a user profile or personal profile that is accessible to other individuals of the social network. The user profile may include a username biographical information about the individual e.g. name gender age and location and personal preferences. For example the network user s webpage on the social network may not only include a name of the network user but may also include personal information that is not available through public records such as personal interests dating status favorite songs movies and foods. The user profile may also include messages or links to messages that have been provided by the network user.

The individual associated with a network user is not necessarily an exclusive user of one social network. For example individuals may have user profiles on multiple social networks e.g. Twitter and Facebook and use an application to monitor both at the same time e.g. Seesmic . Moreover one individual may control multiple users of a single social network. For example a celebrity may control a network user that is intended to be accessible to fans while another network user is intended to be communicated with by close family and friends. It should be noted that the individual associated with a network user may be a human being or an entity such as a business or non profit organization. For example a television show e.g. The Daily Show local restaurant or business e.g. Siemens may operate a network user of the social network to communicate with fans restaurant patrons or clients customers respectively.

As used herein a set of network users may include all network users e.g. all account members of the social network of a social network or a limited number of network users of a social network such as a subset of a larger set e.g. all users of the social network . A limited set of network users may include network users that have a common characteristic. For example the limited set may not include users that do not have the common characteristic. The common characteristic may be provided by or associated with the network user. By way of example a set of network users may be limited or filtered by geography or location e.g. New York Rocky Mountains Los Angeles demographics e.g. gender ethnicity age common hobbies or interests e.g. musical group rock climbing an organization e.g. political party employer etc. The above limitations on a set may be determined by analyzing user profiles social content of the messages from the network users or metadata of the messages. It should be noted that a set of network users may be dynamic such that a number of network users in the set is capable of changing. For example a network user may define a set of users in a social network to include those who are fans of a topic e.g. users who have expressed an interest in a topic such as the Star Wars movies . As other users of the social network who are fans of the same topic join the social network leave the social network e.g. de register from the social network or change whether they are fans of the topic the set of users may autonomously change to reflect the changing users.

As noted above a set of network users may technically be a sub set of a larger set of network users. Sets or subsets may be further limited or filtered. For example it may be desirable to split a set of network users that are associated with a city e.g. New York City into multiple sub sets by identifying the local sports teams that the network users of the set follow e.g. Mets or Yankees . As before the identification may be through analyzing the messages of the network users or user profiles.

As used herein a first network user is registered to receive messages from a second network user when the first network user has agreed to receive messages from the second network user. In such a relationship between the first network user and the second network user the first network user can be referred to as a subscribing network user and the second network user can be referred to as a publishing network user. If the second network user registers to receive messages from the first network user or another network user then the second network user may also be referred to as a subscribing network user and the first network user or the other network user may also be referred to as a publishing network user. Thus a single network user may have multiple relationships with another network user. When the subscribing network user has agreed to receive the messages the subscribing network user may be characterized as being enrolled with the publishing network user or subscribed to the publishing network user e.g. subscribed to the feed of messages posted by the publishing network user . The agreement may be the result of an affirmative step or action taken by the subscribing network user. For instance the subscribing network user may upon receiving a request from the publishing network user select an option that indicates the subscribing network user would like to receive messages from the publishing network user. As one specific example a box may appear at the user interface of the subscribing network user and include the question Would you like to receive messages from John Doe and provide options for the network user to accept or decline the invitation. Alternatively the subscribing network user may send a request to the publishing network user that seeks permission for the subscribing network user to receive messages from the publishing network user. Similarly the request may cause a box to appear to the publishing network user and include the question Do you accept Jane Doe s request to subscribe to your account 

But the affirmative step or action in seeking to subscribe or register to the account or feed of another user may not require a direct communication or interaction with the other network user. For example the subscribing network user may search for the publishing network user e.g. by searching for the name of the publishing network user topics about which the publishing network user frequently writes messages groups or sets to which the publishing network user belong or subscribes geographic locations to which the publishing network user is associated and the like . Upon finding the publishing network user and without communicating directly with the publishing network user the subscribing network user may select or otherwise indicate to the social network that the subscribing network user would like to receive or view messages written by the publishing network user. For example the subscribing network user may configure the user account of the subscribing network user so that the subscribing network user receives messages from a comedian or political pundit e.g. the publishing network user .

It should be noted that when the subscribing network user is registered to receive messages from a publishing network user the subscribing network user may or may not receive all messages provided by the publishing network user. The subscribing network user may only be selected to receive messages regarding a particular topic from the publishing network user. For example if the publishing network user is a host of a popular radio or television program about cooking the subscribing network user may choose to only receive messages that include recipes from the show as opposed to daily messages regarding other topics discussed on the program. Additionally the publishing network user may choose to only send certain messages to the subscribing network user. For example the publishing network user may be a young adult that chooses to send certain messages to his or her parents e.g. to a first subset of users and different messages to his or her friends e.g. to a different overlapping or non overlapping second subset of users . The publishing network user can control which messages are sent to the different subsets of users on a message by message basis and or by establishing rules that control which subsets of users are able to view different messages.

The social content of a message in a social network can be written imaged recorded or otherwise prepared by a network user. Messages prepared by the network user may also be forwarded messages that are not the original work of the network user but nonetheless were approved and or sent by the network user to one or more other users or otherwise posted or available for viewing on the social network. In some embodiments the textual content of the message may have a designated length. For example messages in Twitter are limited to 140 characters. In other embodiments however the messages may be much longer or shorter. For example the messages may include lengthy articles.

A message provided by a network user may be categorized or identified as being associated with one or more characteristics based on a marker of interest which also may be referred to as a key marker that is identified with the message.

In some embodiments the marker of interest is located within the social content of the message. For example a system capable of processing analyzing the social content of the message such as the data mining system described with respect to may analyze the social content of numerous messages to identify whether one or more designated markers of interest are located in the social content of the messages. If the marker of interest is a textual term e.g. word or phrase the system may analyze the textual content for the marker of interest. If the marker of interest is an image the system may analyze the image to identify for example a portion of the image a name of an image or another identifier that is attached to the image.

Messages from network users may be associated with one or more topics such as social topics. As used herein the term social topic or topic is not intended to be limiting and may include any subject that one person would desire to communicate to another person. provides a few examples of popular social topics that may be communicated in messages on a social network. also provides a definition or suggested reason for why the topics were popular e.g. communicated at a frequency that exceeds a designated threshold at the time. The topics and the definitions shown in were obtained from the website whatthetrend.com. In some embodiments a topic of the message may not be literally or explicitly provided in the message but marker of interests that are strongly associated with the topic may be in the message. For example in the message just saw RG3 at the combine may refer to the National Football League s Scouting Combine where invited athletes are tested for their potential in the football league. The term RG3 is a reference to Robert Griffin III an athlete who was tested at the combine and may be another topic of the message. As other examples if an image is sent with the message or as the message the name of the image or the subject of the image may be the topic of the message. Likewise if a sound file is sent with a message the title of the sound file or the subject of the sound file may be one of the topics. For example if a political candidate committed a verbal gaffe a sound file of the verbal gaffe may be forwarded to network users on the social network.

One or more embodiments may be directed to identifying relatively popular topics in the messages of the social network. For example the top 1000 topics of the day on the social network may be identified by the social network a third party e.g. whatthetrend.com or by one or more embodiments described herein. Analysis of the messages may include searching for marker of interests associated with the top 1000 topics. However in other embodiments less popular topics may be considered.

As used herein a message is identified as being associated with a social topic and like phrases when the message includes textual terms images or sounds that are identified as marker of interests associated with a social topic. For example messages may be analyzed to see if designated keywords or phrases are used. If the message includes one of the keywords or phrases the message is identified as being associated with the social topic. However it is understood that the message upon further analysis may not in fact relate to the social topic due to word sense disambiguation. For instance various words may be confused or incorrectly identified because the word is a polyseme homonym or a homograph. The term bear may be used in the context of the animal or may be used in describing the stock market or the economy e.g. It s a bear market. . Cricket may refer to the game that uses a bat and a ball or the term may refer to the insect.

In some embodiments at least one or more of the topics of a message is designated e.g. tagged by the network user that authored the message. More specifically the network user may act to designate the topic of the message. For example in Twitter and other social networks a textual term e.g. word or phrase may be designated as at least one of the topics of the message by positioning a symbol e.g. the hash sign in front of the textual term. However other mechanisms of tagging by the network user may be used. For example a different symbol other than the hash sign may be used. Also the term may be underlined or have another font formatting change that indicates the term is tagged. However other actions initiated by the network user may be performed to indicate the topic. A network user may also place the topic in a designated topic area e.g. the subject line thereby indicating the teem is a topic of the message.

One or more embodiments described herein are configured to determine related or similar topics. Topics may be related in various manners. For example two topics may be related because the two topics are strongly associated with the same place or thing. The topic krishna and the topic Janmashtami are related because the terms refer to the same festival. The topic World Series and Game 6 may be related because at the time the World Series was occurring and Game 6 was the next game to be played The topics tsunami and Pacific tsunami are related because the topics include a common descriptor tsunami . The topic earthquake may also be related to these two terms because the earthquake may have caused the tsunami.

However in other cases two topics may not be related even though the two topics use the same or similar word. As mentioned above word sense disambiguation may result in two topics appearing to be related even though the two are not. For data mining algorithms that rely solely on or overemphasize keywords and phrases as defining a document word sense disambiguation may result in grouping together documents that are not related. Accordingly one or more embodiments may address the limitations of known data mining techniques by considering other similarities between topics users and messages.

As shown in the set is represented by a square that encloses the network users . As described above the set may represent all network users of the social network or a sub set of the network users. For example the set may represent all network users within a designated age group. Three overlapping circles and enclose a select number of network users . Each of the network users in the circle represents a network user that has been identified as having a designated characteristic. Each of the network users in the circle represents a network user that has been identified as having a designated characteristic that is different than the designated characteristic associated with the circle . Each of the network users in the circle represents a network user that has been identified as having a designated characteristic that is different than the respective designated characteristics associated with the circles and . In particular embodiments the designated characteristics are social topics in the social network that are identified as being associated with at least some of the network users . If a network user has been identified as being associated with a corresponding topic then the network user may be characterized as an interested user of the topic. As used hereafter the topics associated with circles and may be referred to as topics .

More specifically network users are network users that have been identified as interested users of at least one of the topics . The network users have shown interest in the topic the network users and have shown interest in the topic and the network users have shown interest in the topic . As illustrated at least some of the network users are interested in more than one topic. For example the network user has been identified as being interested in the topic and the topic but is a non interested user with respect to the topic . The network user is an interested user with respect to the topics but is a non interested user with respect to the topic . The network user is interested in all three topics .

At an enlarged portion of the set of network users is shown and includes specifically network users . Directed links or edges are also shown as connecting or joining corresponding network users . Each of the edges joins a pair of network users and represents that the pair of network users are communicatively linked. For example the edge is an arrow that points from the network user to the network user . In this case the network user is characterized as being a follower of the network user and the network user is characterized as being a user friend of the network user . The edge extends from the network user to the network user . Thus the network user is a follower of the network user and the network user is a user friend of the network user . With respect to the edge the network user is a follower of the network user and the network is a user friend of the network user . Likewise as represented by the edge the network user is a follower of the network user and the network is a user friend of the network user .

Both of the network users are registered to receive messages from the network user . For example if the network user posts e.g. sends a message and the network users are permitted to have access to the message then the message may be read by the network users . The message may have an identifiable social topic as described above. In the network user is a primary follower of the network user because the network user is registered to receive messages from the network user . The network user is a secondary follower of the network user because the network user is not directly linked to the network user but indirectly linked to the network user via the network user . More specifically the network user is not configured to receive messages from the network user .

The network user may be characterized as having more influence than the other network users because the network user has more incoming edges than other network users . More specifically the network user is capable of influencing the network users and because the network users receive messages from the network user . In some embodiments a level of influence for a network user is not only determined by a number of primary followers but also a number of secondary followers and tertiary followers and so on . As will be described in greater detail below the network user may be labeled as an influential user if the network user has at least a designated level of influence.

For example demonstrates relative TSI for network users and . As shown by the directed edges or arrows the network users follow the network user and the network users follow the network user . The network users are all interested users with respect to the topic . The network user is a shared follower because the network user follows both the network user and the network user . Also shown in the network user is followed by network users . With respect to the topic the network users are non interested users.

Accordingly the network user has a total of six followers. However each of the six followers is an interested follower i.e. 6 6 or 100 of the topic . The network user has a total of eight followers which is more than the number of followers for the network user . However the network user has only three followers that are interested followers i.e. 3 8 or 37.5 . The remaining followers are non interested followers. In this illustration the network user has more total network influence than the network user . However the network user has more topic specific influence or TSI than the network user . Thus the network user may be considered more influential with respect to the topic than the network user even though the network user may have more followers. As will be described in greater detail below a TSI value may be used to facilitate determining how related different topics are.

The obtaining operation may include querying at the social network or another entity having the desired data for social topics in the user messages. In particular a designated number of the more popular social topics from a predetermined time period may be obtained. In some cases the social network and or a third party e.g. whatthetrend.com trendsmap.com and the like may track or monitor the social topics that are mentioned by users of the social network. Topics that are popular may be identified as e.g. trending topics. Topics may be popular if a threshold number of messages have been sent by network users within a predetermined time period. In some embodiments the popularity of a topic is considered with respect to the entire social network e.g. all network users . However in other embodiments the topics that are obtained may be popular to a designated sub set of users. For example the topics that are popular to network users in Chicago or to network users that are between the ages of 22 35 may be obtained. In alternative embodiments the social topics obtained at are not limited to popular topics but may include for example all social topics of the user messages that were sent within a predetermined time period.

The obtaining operation may also include querying at for messages that have been identified as being associated with designated topics. For example the user messages that are associated with the top 1000 social topics from the past 24 hour period may be obtained. The obtaining operation may also include querying at for information relating to the users that provided the messages associated with the designated topics. For example the user information obtained may include information about the other network users that are communicatively linked to the designated user. The user information about the other network users may be the number of user friends and or followers that the other network users have.

The method also includes analyzing at the messages that have been identified as being associated with designated topics. One or more embodiments described herein may use vector space modeling to perform operations that are similar to data mining. In the context of data mining groups of messages related to a designated topic may be collectively viewed as a document hereinafter referred to as a topic document . The analyzing operation may include analyzing each topic document e.g. analyzing each group of user messages that are related to the topic .

The method also includes defining at each topic document. In some embodiments each topic document may be defined by the number of times a designated term e.g. a word or phrase is used in the topic document. The designated terms are derived from a document corpus which is a collection of documents. In some embodiments the document corpus may be the user messages in all of the topic documents. For example if user messages relating to 1000 topics were obtained at then 1000 topic documents were also obtained because the messages associated with a topic collectively define the topic document. The document corpus may include the distinct terms used in all of the user messages of all of the 1000 topic documents. However a document corpus may be obtained in other manners and may be modified as desired. The document corpus may also be derived from a previously prepared database of terms. For example the document corpus may be derived from the Multi Perspective Question Answering MPQA corpus.

More specifically for each topic document the defining operation analyzes the textual content of the user messages in the topic document and for various designated terms counts the number of times a designated term is used. For example the analyzing operation may review user messages in a topic document and determine that out of all user messages in the topic document the term Super Tuesday is used 86 times the term Mitt Romney is used 74 times and the term primary is used 120 times. The topic document may then be defined as a vector of identifiers that are associated with corpus terms where t t t are n corpus terms from the document corpus and w w . . . ware weights associated with each of the corpus terms.

The weights w w . . . wof the corpus terms may be based upon a number of times or frequency that the corpus term appears in a particular topic document. The weights w w . . . wof the corpus terms may also be based on a number of topic documents in the document corpus that include the corpus term. In particular embodiments the weights w w . . . wof the corpus terms are determined using a term frequency inverse document frequency TF IDF weighting equation. A TF IDF can be a numerical value that reflects how important a corpus term is to a topic document. For example the TF IDF weight equation used to determine the weights w w . . . wmay be 

Accordingly the defining operation defines a plurality of topic documents that are each in turn defined by a corresponding vector. The topic document may be defined by a number of times each distinct term from a document corpus is used.

At a similarity between the topic documents may be determined. In data mining one similarity metric that may be used to define a similarity between two documents is cosine similarity. Cosine similarity is a measure of similarity between two vectors that is determined by measuring the cosine of an angle between the two vectors. As described above the topic documents may be defined as vectors d. In this case the vectors are topic documents as defined above. Thus the cosine similarity between two topic documents dand dmay be defined as 

However determining a cosine similarity between two topic documents alone may have some limitations. For example long documents may be poorly represented due to poor similarity values.

To address the limitations of using cosine similarity alone to compare two topic documents one or more embodiments may determine a similarity in network users that have provided the messages associated with the two topics. If two topics share a number of network users then the two topics may be considered to be more related than two topics that do not share any network users. In the context of determining similarity between two topic documents a user similarity between two topic documents may be considered as a number of network users that are interested in both social topics that correspond to the two topic documents. By way of example in some cases network users may provide a message that is associated with topic A and also provide a message that is associated with topic B.

Accordingly one or more embodiments described herein may determine a similarity metric between two topic documents using a model that is at least partially based on a user similarity between the two topic documents. In some embodiments the similarity between two topic documents is based at least partially on a cosine similarity of the two topic documents and also based on a user similarity between the two topic documents. In more particular embodiments the user similarity is based on a number of topic specific influential users that are shared by the two topics.

To this end the determining operation may include identifying at topic specific influence values of the network users for the designated topics. As described above one or more embodiments may use vector space modeling. Let G V E represent the social network such as the social network . V u u . . . u is a set of vertices in the vector graph. With respect to the social network the vertices u u . . . ucorrespond to network users . E is a set of directed edges such as the edges in . As described above a directed edge extends from a follower to the network user being followed e.g. user friend . For example in the network user is a follower of the network user . In some embodiments each of the edges is configured to have an equal weight with respect to other edges.

As described above topic specific influence or TSI for a designated user is based upon a number of network users that are registered to receive messages from the designated user and that are also identified as being interested in a designated topic. Thus in relation to vector graph modeling the subgraph G V Eis considered in which Vrepresents a subset of network users that have been identified as being interested in a designated topic e.g. the network users have sent messages that include marker of interests of the designated topic . TSI may not only be based upon a number of followers that are registered to receive messages from the designated user e.g. followers but TSI may also be affected by the influence that these followers have. For example TSI may be affected by a number of user friends and or followers of each network user that follows the designated user. A topic specific rank TSR also referred to as a TSI value for a designated user u may be defined as 

It should be noted that in some embodiments the TSR or TSI value may be affected by spam users of the social network. Spam users are network users that are operated by computer programs to send unsolicited messages to other network users. Typically spam users send significantly more messages than other network users. Spam users may be configured to search for messages that relate to a designated topic and then send bulk messages to the network users that provided the messages about the designated topic. As one example if a spam user determined that a network user was interested in buying a house the spam user may send a message to the network user about real estate offerings.

Accordingly in some embodiments spam users may be determined by identifying the network users having a number of sent messages that exceed a designated cut off. To diminish the TSI value of the spam user the above described weights Wand Wmay be modified. For example for each message that is sent by an identified spam user a number of friends that the spam user may be incrementally increased. Increasing the number of user friends reduces the TSI value of the spam user.

Accordingly the TSI value for each network user that has been identified as interested in a designated topic may be determined. The determining at may also include identifying at the influential users from the interested users. The identifying operation may include at least one of a identifying the interested users that have a TSI value that is greater than a designated cut off value b identifying the interested users that are within a designated range of TSI values or c ranking the TSI values and identifying the interested users that are within a top group ranking of the interested users e.g. within the top 5 of interested users .

The determining operation may include determining a user similarity between two sub sets of network users e.g. between two different groups of network users that have been identified as interested in a designated topic . The user similarity may be determined by identifying at a number of influential users that are shared by the two sub sets or topics . With reference again to topic and topic share a total of six network users . If any of these network users is identified as being an influential user of the topic e.g. a topic specific influential user and also of the topic then the topics share those influential users. The number of topic specific influential users that are shared by different topics may be used to determine a user similarity of the two documents. More specifically a user similarity between two documents tand tmay be defined as 

As one example of the above equation assume that topic A has a total of 20 influential users and topic B has a total of 75 influential users. Of these influential users topics A and B share . Based on the user similarity equation above the user similarity that topic A has with topic B is 15 20 75 and the user similarity that topic B has with topic A is 15 75 20 . Accordingly topic A has a stronger relation to topic B than topic B does to topic A.

In some embodiments the determining at may be based solely on the user similarity. One topic may be identified as being sufficiently related to another topic if the user similarity is greater than a designated threshold. For example if the percentage of influential users shared by two topics is greater than 50 the two topics may be characterized as being related.

However in other embodiments a similarity between topics may be determined at by also using other similarity metrics. More specifically a similarity between two topics may be determined by considering the cosine similarity between the two topics and the user similarity between the two topics More specifically a similarity S between two topics tand tmay be defined as cosine similarity user similarity where and are parameters that determine the relative effectiveness of cosine similarity and user similarity respectively. In some embodiments the value used for is greater than . Values for the parameters and may be evaluated using top k precision analysis and or weighted top k precision analysis.

In some embodiments the user similarity may have a greater effect on the topic similarity S than the cosine similarity. In some embodiments a value to value ratio may be about 1.5 1 to about 20 1. In particular embodiments the value to value ratio may be about 3 1 to about 15 1. In more particular embodiments the value to value ratio may be about 4 1 to about 11 1. By way of one example the value may be about 10 and the value may be about 1. As another example the value may be about 5 and the value may be about 1. However in other embodiments the value used for is less than .

It should be noted that other similarity metrics may be used with the user similarity. For example other similarity metrics may be used in place of the cosine similarity or in addition to the cosine similarity.

The method may also include clustering at the designated topics based on the similarity S. In data mining document clustering is the process of determining separate groups or clusters of documents among numerous documents. These groups or clusters of documents may be referred to as cluster groups. In known clustering systems a distance metric is used to group documents represented as vectors relative each other and define separate cluster groups. For example k means clustering is a method of cluster analysis that partitions the documents into k cluster groups in which the value for k may be designated or determined by a computing system. Given a set of n documents e.g. x x . . . x to cluster the k means algorithm randomly selects cluster centers m. The algorithm then uses multiple iterations of two steps. More specifically each iteration includes the step of determining the cluster center that a document is nearest to and then assigning the document to that cluster group. This may be represented as Clusters distance distance 1 2 3

To determine the cluster center that is nearest to a document various distance functions may be used. A common distance function is the Euclidean distance. Determining a cosine similarity between two documents may also be used as a distance function.

After the assignment a new cluster center is calculated for each cluster group. The new cluster center for one cluster group is most likely different from the original cluster center if documents were assigned to the cluster group and or were reassigned to another cluster group. Calculating the new cluster center may be represented by 

After calculating the new cluster center additional iterations of the assignment and update operations may be repeated until convergence is achieved e.g. until the documents are not reassigned .

As described above the distance function that is used by conventional k means clustering algorithms may include the Euclidean distance or the cosine similarity. However one or more embodiments described herein may use a distance function that is based on the similarity S defined above that is partially based on user similarity. As described above the similarity S between two documents may be represented as Cosine similarity user similarity A distance function can be derived from the above equation. For example the distance function may be Distance cosine similarity user similarity where K and are parameters that may have designated values that are subject to change based on the application of the algorithm.

However by using the above distance function that is based on user similarity clustering analysis that includes calculating a new cluster center cannot be used. Accordingly instead of designating a cluster center and calculating a new cluster center a cluster representative of each cluster group may be assigned.

More specifically the clustering algorithm may be similar to the above k means clustering algorithm. For example given a plurality of topic documents k cluster representatives may be assigned randomly. Each cluster representative is one of the topic documents. A distance between each cluster representative and each other topic document may be calculated using the above distance function based on user similarity. Each of the topic documents is then assigned to the cluster representative that is nearest to the topic document. Similar to the above k means clustering algorithm the cluster representative may then be recalculated. However the new cluster representative is determined by adding for each topic document in a cluster group a distance between the topic document and other topic documents in the cluster group. The topic document with the lowest distance is the new cluster representative. Once convergence is achieved each cluster group includes a plurality of topics that may be characterized as related topics.

The data mining system includes a server system or sub system that includes one or more servers. A plurality of modules may perform at the server system one or more of the operations that have been described with respect to the method . Each of the above modules may include an algorithm e.g. instructions stored on a tangible and or non transitory computer readable storage medium coupled to one or more servers or sub algorithms to perform particular processes. The data mining system may also include a database system that stores data that may be used in the data analysis. The database system may include one or more databases and is configured to communicate with the server subsystem and the modules . Although the data mining system appears one structure or apparatus in the data mining system may be formed from multiple interconnected subsystems that are located remotely from each other.

The modules may include a data collection module an analysis module a document defining module a topic similarity module and a clustering module . The data collection module is configured to obtain data related to the social network. The data collection module may communicate directly with the data interface . For example the data collection module may request data regarding the social network through one or more APIs established by the social network. By way of example the data collection module may obtain at least one of data regarding topics data regarding user information e.g. age gender sex geographical location or data regarding the messages provided by the network users.

The analysis module is configured to analyze the data collected by the data collection module . For example the analysis module may analyze the messages from the social network to identify any key words or markers in the messages and thereby classify identify the message as being associated with a social topic. The document defining module may analyze different groups of messages in which each group is associated with a different topic. The document defining module may generate vectors that represent different topic documents.

The topic similarity module may be configured to determine a similarity between different pairs of topic documents. The topic similarity module may be configured to perform the determining operation including the operations and . For example the topic similarity module may receive vector data from the document defining module that includes a vector for each one of the topic documents. More specifically for each group of user messages that are classified as being associated with a corresponding topic a vector may be generated. The topic similarity module may determine a cosine similarity between the two topic documents as well as a user similarity between the two topic documents. As described above the user similarity may be based on a number of topic specific influential users that are shared by the two topics associated with the topic documents. The clustering module is configured to cluster the topic documents thereby identifying different groups of related topics.

The various components and modules described herein may be implemented as part of one or more computers or processors. The computer or processor may include a computing device an input device a display unit and an interface for example for accessing the Internet. The computer or processor may include a microprocessor. The microprocessor may be connected to a communication bus. The computer or processor may also include a memory. The memory may include Random Access Memory RAM and Read Only Memory ROM . The computer or processor further may include a storage device which may be a hard disk drive or a removable storage drive such as an optical disk drive solid state disk drive e.g. flash RAM and the like. The storage device may also be other similar means for loading computer programs or other instructions into the computer or processor.

As used herein the term computer or module may include any processor based or microprocessor based system including systems using microcontrollers reduced instruction set computers RISC application specific integrated circuits ASICs field programmable gate arrays FPGAs graphical processing units GPUs logic circuits and any other circuit or processor capable of executing the functions described herein. The above examples are exemplary only and are thus not intended to limit in any way the definition and or meaning of the term computer or module .

The computer or processor executes a set of instructions that are stored in one or more storage elements in order to process input data. The storage elements may also store data or other information as desired or needed. The storage element may be in the form of an information source or a physical memory element within a processing machine.

The set of instructions may include various commands that instruct the computer or processor as a processing machine to perform specific operations such as the methods and processes of the various embodiments. The set of instructions may be in the form of a software program which may form part of a tangible non transitory computer readable medium or media. The software may be in various forms such as system software or application software. Further the software may be in the form of a collection of separate programs or modules a program module within a larger program or a portion of a program module. The software also may include modular programming in the form of object oriented programming. The processing of input data by the processing machine may be in response to operator commands or in response to results of previous processing or in response to a request made by another processing machine.

As used herein the terms software and firmware are interchangeable and include any computer program stored in memory for execution by a computer including RAM memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory and non volatile RAM NVRAM memory. The above memory types are exemplary only and are thus not limiting as to the types of memory usable for storage of a computer program.

It should be noted that embodiments described herein do not require each and every operation to be performed in a method or by a processor or for each module to be included in a system.

Various aspects of the subject matter described herein are not directed solely to an abstract idea. For example one or more embodiments described herein cannot reasonably be performed solely in the mind of a human being and may involve the use of tangible computational devices such as computers processors controllers and the like. At least one embodiment of a method described herein could not reasonably be performed within the mind of a person and or without use of a computational device e.g. could not be performed merely with a pencil and paper . For example it would be commercially unreasonable for a person to mentally analyze numerous messages from a social network to identify different topics that share network users consider the number of follower and user friends that the shared network users have and calculate a TSI value as described above. This is not commercially reasonable due to the relatively large number of messages and numerous different social topics. Instead one or more embodiments described herein provide practical applications that identify topic specific influential users and related topics. One or more embodiments described herein may be performed autonomously by a processor or controller or other logic based device in order to significantly improve the accuracy and or speed of determining topic specific influential users and or related topics relative to mentally performing the same tasks.

In accordance with another embodiment a method e.g. a method of analyzing data from an online social network having a set of network users where the network users are capable of communicating with one another through the social network is provided. The method includes obtaining messages sent by the network users. The messages have social content that includes at least one of textual terms or images provided by the network users. The messages include a marker of interest in the social content where the marker of interest is associated with a topic of the social network. The method also includes identifying the network users that sent the messages having the marker of interest in the social content as interested users of the topic. The interested users are a subset of the set of network users. The method further includes determining a topic specific influence TSI value of a designated user from the interested users in the subset. The TSI value of the designated user is based on a number of the interested users that are registered to receive the messages from the designated user.

In another aspect the interested users that are registered to receive the messages from the designated user are primary users. The interested users also include secondary users that are registered to receive the messages from at least one of the primary users wherein the TSI value is also based on a number of secondary users.

In another aspect determining the TSI value includes determining the TSI values of other interested users in the subset.

In another aspect the method also includes ranking the interested users based on the TSI values to generate a topic specific ranking.

In another aspect the method also includes identifying influential users from the interested users of the subset the TSI values of the influential users being at least one of a greater than a designated cut off value or b within a designated range of values or c within a top group ranking of interested users.

In another aspect the method also includes identifying the interested users that send an abnormal number of messages to network users as spam users. The TSI values of spam users are diminished relative to interested users that are not spam users.

In another aspect the marker of interest includes a plurality of marker of interests and determining whether the messages include the marker of interest includes identifying the messages that include at least two of the marker of interests.

In another aspect the marker of interest is a textual term that is actively tagged by the network user as the topic of the corresponding message.

In another embodiment a system e.g. a system configured to analyze data from an online social network having a set of network users where the network users being capable of communicating with one another through the social network is provided. The system includes an analysis module an identification module and a value generating module. The analysis module is configured to analyze messages sent by the network users. The messages have social content that includes at least one of textual terms or images provided by the networks users. The messages include a marker of interest in the social content. The marker of interest is associated with a topic of the social network. The identification module is configured to identify the network users that sent the messages having the marker of interest in the social content as interested users of the topic. The interested users are a subset of the set of network users. The value generating module is configured to determine a topic specific influence TSI value of a designated user from the interested users in the subset. The TSI value of the designated user is based on a number of the interested users that are registered to receive the messages from the designated user.

In another aspect the interested users that are registered to receive the messages from the designated user are primary users. The interested users also include secondary users that are registered to receive the messages from at least one of the primary users wherein the TSI value is also based on a number of secondary users.

In another aspect the value generating module is configured to determine the TSI value of other interested users in the subset.

In another aspect the value generating module is configured to rank the interested users based on the TSI values to generate a topic specific ranking.

In another aspect the value generating module is configured to identify influential users from the interested users of the subset. The TSI values of the influential users are at least one of a greater than a designated cut off value or b within a designated range of values or e within a top group ranking of interested users.

In another aspect the marker of interest includes a plurality of marker of interests and the analysis module determines whether the messages include at least two of the marker of interests.

In another aspect the marker of interest is a textual term that is actively tagged by the network user as the topic of the corresponding message.

In another embodiment another method e.g. a method of analyzing data from an online social network having a set of network users where the network users are capable of communicating with one another through the social network is provided. The method includes obtaining a plurality of topic documents that are associated with different social topics. Each of the topic documents has a plurality of messages from the network users of the social network. The messages have social content that includes at least one of textual terms or images provided by the networks users. The messages of each topic document are identified as relating to the social topic of the topic document. The method further includes assigning the topic documents to corresponding cluster groups where the assigning for each of the topic documents is based on a user similarity of said topic document with the other topic documents. The user similarity is determined by a number of influential users that are shared by at least two topic documents.

In another aspect the method also includes determining a cluster representative of each of the cluster groups. The cluster representative may be one of the topic documents in the corresponding cluster group.

In another embodiment another system e.g. a system configured to analyze data from an online social network having a set of network users where the network users being capable of communicating with one another through the social network is provided. The system includes a data collection module and a clustering module. The data collection module is configured to obtain a plurality of topic documents that are associated with different social topics. Each of the topic documents has a plurality of messages from the network users of the social network. The messages have social content that includes at least one of textual terms or images provided by the networks users. The messages of each topic document are identified as relating to the social topic of the topic document. The clustering module is configured to assign the topic documents to corresponding cluster groups. An assignment for each of the topic documents is based on a user similarity of the topic document with the other topic documents. The user similarity is determined by a number of influential users that are shared by at least two topic documents.

In another aspect the clustering module determines a cluster representative of each of the cluster groups. The cluster representative may be one of the topic documents in the corresponding cluster group.

It is to be understood that the above description is intended to be illustrative and not restrictive. For example the above described embodiments and or aspects thereof may be used in combination with each other. In addition many modifications may be made to adapt a particular situation or material to the teachings of the inventive subject matter described herein without departing from its scope. Dimensions types of materials orientations of the various components and the number and positions of the various components described herein are intended to define parameters of certain embodiments and are by no means limiting and are merely exemplary embodiments. Many other embodiments and modifications within the spirit and scope of the claims will be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reviewing the above description. The scope of the inventive subject matter should therefore be determined with reference to the appended claims along with the full scope of equivalents to which such claims are entitled. In the appended claims the terms including and in which are used as the plain English equivalents of the respective terms comprising and wherein. Moreover in the following claims the terms first second and third etc. are used merely as labels and are not intended to impose numerical requirements on their objects. Further the limitations of the following claims are not written in means plus function format and are not intended to be interpreted based on 35 U.S.C. 112 sixth paragraph unless and until such claim limitations expressly use the phrase means for followed by a statement of function void of further structure.

