---

title: Breathable microframe prosthetic interface
abstract: A prosthetic interface includes an orientation assembly, a mounting plate and a load bearing assembly. The orientation assembly includes an anterior frame portion and a posterior frame portion. The anterior frame portion extends over an anterior portion of a torso of a wearer of the prosthetic interface. The posterior frame portion extends over a posterior portion of the torso. The mounting plate is disposed at an intersection of the posterior frame portion and the anterior frame portion. The mounting plate forms a structure to which a prosthetic limb is attachable. The load bearing assembly includes breathable fabric forming a load distribution matrix to distribute a load on the mounting plate over portions of the torso with which the fabric is in contact.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08840681&OS=08840681&RS=08840681
owner: The Johns Hopkins University
number: 08840681
owner_city: Baltimore
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120614
---
This application claims priority to and the benefit of copending U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 497 639 filed on Jun. 16 2011 the entire contents of which are hereby incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was made with U.S. Government support under contract number N66001 06 C 8005 awarded by the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency DARPA . The Government has certain rights in the invention.

Example embodiments generally relate to prosthetic devices and more particularly relate to a microframe prosthetic interface that employs breathable materials.

Prosthetic devices have continued to evolve over time to improve the functional capabilities and aesthetic appearance of such devices. However such improvements typically require increased weight and structural rigidity. This renders the resultant prosthetic devices relatively uncomfortable to wear.

One type of prosthetic device that produces particular challenges in this regard is a shoulder disarticulation level prosthetic socket. Traditional sockets that are commonly employed for such prosthetic devices include substantially full frame and rigid sockets that cover the residual limb and in some cases portions of the torso a well with rigid non breathable plastic or laminated resin. Such a device retains heat and moisture close to the wearer s body. Additionally such a device creates pressure points when certain load conditions are encountered. Thus both sweating and discomfort are encountered when the conventional prosthetic socket is worn.

Accordingly some example embodiments may enable the provision of a relatively light structure for supporting a prosthetic interface. In this regard some example embodiments may employ a relatively small microframe which may be supported by a breathable fabric that extends around a portion of the torso. Accordingly for example the breathable fabric may form a load distribution fabric matrix that anchors the prosthetic interface to the body without the creation of local areas that trap heat or bear high loads thereby increasing the comfort of the wearer.

In one example embodiment a prosthetic interface is provided. The prosthetic interface may include an orientation assembly a mounting plate and a load bearing assembly. The orientation assembly may include an anterior frame portion and a posterior frame portion. The anterior frame portion may be configured to extend over an anterior portion of a torso of a wearer of the prosthetic interface. The posterior frame portion may be configured to extend over a posterior portion of the torso. The mounting plate may be disposed at an intersection of the posterior frame portion and the anterior frame portion. The mounting plate may form a structure to which a prosthetic limb is attachable. The load bearing assembly may include breathable fabric forming a load distribution matrix to distribute a load on the mounting plate over portions of the torso with which the fabric is in contact.

Some example embodiments now will be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which some but not all example embodiments are shown. Indeed the examples described and pictured herein should not be construed as being limiting as to the scope applicability or configuration of the present disclosure. Rather these example embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will satisfy applicable legal requirements. Like reference numerals refer to like elements throughout.

Some example embodiments may enable a relatively light structure for supporting a prosthetic interface e.g. socket system to be provided. Such a structure may employ a relatively small microframe that facilitates distribution of limb forces across more of the torso than just the local areas that contact the microframe. This distribution may be accomplished via a breathable fabric that extends around a portion of the torso. Accordingly the trapping of heat and localization of pressure points that is commonly encountered in connection with laminated resin based socket systems may be avoided and the comfort of the wearer may be enhanced.

An example embodiment will be described herein as it relates to a shoulder prosthetic interface. However it should be appreciated that some example embodiments may alternatively be practiced in connection with other prosthetic devices.

The frame portion may include a mounting plate to which a prosthetic arm e.g. see prosthetic arm of may be attached. As such the frame portion may be configured to be disposed proximate to the missing or residual limb and the fabric portion may be attached to the frame portion and also wrap around a portion of the torso of the wearer of the prosthetic interface . The fabric portion may be configured to form a load distribution fabric matrix to distribute forces due to loading associated with the prosthetic interface e.g. forces on the prosthetic arm so that the forces are not merely transmitted to the body of the wearer at a limited number of pressure points but are instead distributed over the torso more evenly and through the material of the fabric portion . A downward oriented load on the mounting plate may therefore be distributed substantially perpendicularly with respect to the orientation of the exerted force away from the frame portion via the fabric portion. Moreover as will be discussed in greater detail below the load may be distributed away from the frame portion three hundred and sixty degrees around the torso .

Both the anterior frame member and the posterior frame member may extend away from where they meet and toward the midline of the wearer on both the front and back sides of the torso respectively. The anterior frame member and the posterior frame member may each be substantially flat plates of material bent to have an arcuate shape such that an interior flat face of each of the anterior frame member and the posterior frame member are configured to conform to the body contours of the wearer. In some embodiments the anterior frame member and the posterior frame member may be formed based on a mold of the wearer in order to custom fit the anterior frame member and the posterior frame member to the wearer. Thus for example the mold of the wearer may be used as a basis for molding casting or otherwise forming the frame portion from a unitary piece of material. Alternatively the anterior frame member and the posterior frame member may be formed to one or more predefined shapes and or sizes. Thus for example a number of sizes and or shapes that are common for different age gender limb status or categories based on other characteristics may be generated.

The material used to form the frame portion may be a resin light metal plastic or other similar material. In an example embodiment the material may be rigid but flexible. Rubber coating padding or other materials may employed on surfaces of the frame portion to increase the comfort of the wearer and prevent direct contact between the material of the frame portion and the skin of the wearer.

In an example embodiment each of the anterior frame member and the posterior frame member may generally have a C shape . The arcuate portions of the respective C shaped members may extend away from each other such that the portions of the anterior frame member and the posterior frame member that correspond to the straight portions of the C shape are adjacent to each other while remaining portions of the respective C shapes extend outward. However the anterior frame member and the posterior frame member may also be bent such that they conform to the contours of the body. As such when viewed from above the frame portion may form a U shape . In an example embodiment a proximal or top portion of the posterior frame member that extends away from the mounting plate may be disposed proximate to the superspinatus groove of the wearer when worn. Meanwhile the substantially mirrored portion of the anterior frame member may be disposed proximate to the deltopectoral groove below the clavicle of the wearer when worn.

In some embodiments a strut may be provided for structural support at the intersection between the anterior frame member and the posterior frame member . In other words the strut may extend between the points of intersection of the distal ends of the C shaped arcuate portions. Although the strut may be employed in some embodiments it should be appreciated that the strut need not be included in all embodiments such as is the case in the embodiment of . When included the strut may be provided to add structural support to prevent deformation of the frame portion responsive to forces that would otherwise tend to compress the anterior frame member and the posterior frame member vertically. Of note however the strut is not necessary in all cases because the frame portion is generally not required as a load bearing member. Instead the frame portion generally functions to hold the fabric portion in a desirable orientation. Thus the fabric portion generally bears a vast majority of the load e.g. greater than 90 while the frame portion and the strut if employed instead provide advantageous positioning surfaces to which the fabric portion can be attached to create a load distribution matrix that distributes the load over the torso and particularly over the opposite side of the torso via the many fibers of the fabric portion that extend around the torso . As such the fabric portion forms a plurality of straps that are held in a matrix i.e. the matrix of the fabric or material used for the fabric portion to distribute the load on the prosthetic interface . illustrates a perspective view of the prosthetic interface according to another example embodiment. In the example of the strut of is removed.

In an example embodiment the fabric portion may be made of a material that is relatively light and breathable. The material may be flexible and stretchable while further enabling moisture to be wicked away from the body of the wearer. In some embodiments a woven graphite cloth material may be used for the fabric portion . Some example embodiments may employ 10 90 elastane fabric in the fabric portion .

The fabric portion may be formed to approximate the shape of a typical T shirt with one arm portion removed. As such in some embodiments the fabric portion may include at least some fabric extending from the anterior frame member to the posterior frame member via the opposite shoulder region e.g. the region between the neck of the wearer and either the sleeve or the opposite arm and or at least some fabric extending from the anterior frame member to the posterior frame member via the portion of the torso that is between the shoulder and waist of the wearer. Thus in some embodiments the fabric portion may extend from the anterior frame member to the posterior frame member via the opposite side of the wearers torso i.e. the side opposite with respect to the prosthetic interface .

Although the fabric portion of is shown to include a sleeve for the limb opposite the missing limb it is not necessary that the sleeve be included. Moreover in some cases two frame portions may be employed for double amputees or others who are missing both arms at the shoulder. illustrates an example of such an arrangement. In this example the fabric portion is embodied as one or more discrete straps that connect from a bottom portion of one anterior frame member to a top portion of the opposing anterior frame member. Similarly the fabric portion may be embodied as discrete straps that connect a bottom portion of one posterior frame member to a top portion of the opposing posterior frame member.

In some embodiments the fabric portion may further include a drum portion that may be disposed substantially proximate to an anterior frame gap formed in the space defined by the anterior frame member and substantially proximate to a posterior frame gap formed in a space defined by the posterior frame member . The drum portion may therefore be stretched over an interior portion of the frame portion i.e. the side of the frame portion that is proximate to the wearer s skin . In some embodiments the drum portion may be affixed to the frame portion via a hook and loop fastener. In this regard it should be noted that the hook portion of the fastener may be disposed on an internal and or external surface of the frame portion and the drum portion may include or be embodied as the loop portion of the fastener. However other fixing methods could alternatively be employed e.g. adhesive or distributed fixed points of attachment . In any case some embodiments may wrap the drum portion around an external periphery of the frame portion so that the frame portion itself does not contact the skin of the wearer and so that a relatively secure fit may be achieved.

The drum portion may further facilitate distribution of loads encountered by the prosthetic interface and reduce loading on the frame portion . In this regard for example the drum portion may be affixed to the frame portion such that it is stretched between the anterior frame member and the posterior frame member so that the fabric of the drum portion may be further stretched when the prosthetic interface is donned. The stretching of the drum portion may further assist in load distribution to reduce the amount of load borne by the distal lateral portion of the frame portion e.g. where the anterior frame member and the posterior frame member meet. Accordingly when a load is encountered at the mounting plate in a downward direction rather than merely deforming the frame portion downward or imparting a force on the distal lateral portion of the frame portion the drum portion may distribute the load over the entire part of the body with which the drum portion is in contact. This arrangement may provide for a degree distribution of load around the torso of the wearer instead of concentrating load bearing responsibility in more discrete locations since the fabric portion may extend 360 degrees around the torso .

The drum portion of some embodiments may further be utilized for providing a mechanism by which to position electrodes proximate to the wearer s skin. The electrodes may snap onto the drum portion and be held in contact with the wearer s skin and muscles located proximate to the contact point so that electrical signals may be generated for control of the prosthetic arm responsive to movement of muscles that the electrodes contact. Any number of electrodes may be employed in various embodiments. Moreover other types of electrodes may also be employed.

The fabric proximate to the missing arm portion may be connected to the frame portion to enable the fabric portion to carry and distribute loads encountered by the prosthetic interface over the fabric portion. More specifically the fabric portion may have an anterior interface region of material that is attachable to the anterior frame member and a posterior interface region not shown of material that is attachable to the posterior frame member . The anterior and posterior interface regions may be connected to the frame portion or at least held proximate thereto via any of a number of methods. For example a hook and loop fastener may be employed adhesives may be used or the interface regions may attach to the frame portion at one or more discrete but distributed points of attachment. illustrates an example where discrete points of attachment are employed. In this regard for example fixing posts are provided respectively at a relatively high portion of the anterior frame member and a relatively low portion of the anterior frame member . The anterior interface region may have clips that attach thereto and also attach to the fixing posts .

In an example embodiment the fabric portion may be attached to the posterior frame member via hook and loop fasteners disposed over the interface between the posterior frame member and the fabric portion while the fabric portion is attached to the anterior frame member via discrete fixed locations. Moreover in some cases those discrete fixed locations e.g. provided by the fixing posts may be utilized in connection with a mechanism for adjusting the tightness of the fabric portion . As such for example one side of the fabric portion e.g. the front side may be adjustably coupled to the frame portion while the other side of the fabric portion e.g. the back side may be coupled to the frame portion in a fixed or non adjustable manner.

In some embodiments adjustable coupling of the fabric portion to the frame portion at one side or on both sides may be accomplished using an adjustable tightening unit . In an example embodiment the adjustable tightening unit may be provided to enable a cord string cable or other flexible line to be threaded through a channel in a distal end of the anterior interface region so that the anterior interface region may be drawn toward the frame portion between the clips by tightening the cord via the adjustable tightening unit . The cord may be enabled to move freely throughout the channel or in some cases a portion of the cord may be fixed at one location within the channel. The cord may terminate at one of the clips e.g. the bottom clip and extend through the anterior interface region to the other clip and engage the adjustable tightening unit . The adjustable tightening unit may in some cases be embodied as a cleat. Thus for example the cord may be wrapped around a portion of the cleat at a desired tightness and then secured within the cleat. As such the tightness of the interface between the fabric portion and the frame portion may be adjusted easily using one hand.

Although not required an upper portion of the anterior frame member and the posterior frame member may be connected via a strap . The strap may extend between fixing posts that may be disposed on the anterior frame member and the posterior frame member respectively. However any other fixing means for connection of the strap may alternatively be employed. The strap may perform some load bearing function but its primary utility may be in relation to holding the frame portion in a desired position or orientation. Thus a majority of the load encountered at or exerted on the mounting plate may still be borne by the fabric portion .

Accordingly example embodiments may be provided to increase the comfort and the utility of a prosthetic interface by providing a structure that may be made of one to several layers of material to exhibit a graduated transition of flexible to semi rigid or rigid materials in order to provide a comfortable platform to support a prosthetic device but also distribute forces evenly about the body without creating pressure points. By transitioning from soft and semi rigid materials to more rigid materials comfort may be further enhanced where the prosthetic interface contacts the skin. The change in flexibility may be accomplished through mechanical design such as tapered laminates and through materials changes from one surface of the structure to another or other means for tapering the flexibility characteristics of materials. This may provide a gradual transition of forces from the socket system i.e. the prosthetic interface to the body and may limit edges of the interface digging in to the soft tissue of the body.

Many modifications and other embodiments of the inventions set forth herein will come to mind to one skilled in the art to which these inventions pertain having the benefit of the teachings presented in the foregoing descriptions and the associated drawings. Therefore it is to be understood that the inventions are not to be limited to the specific embodiments disclosed and that modifications and other embodiments are intended to be included within the scope of the appended claims. Moreover although the foregoing descriptions and the associated drawings describe exemplary embodiments in the context of certain exemplary combinations of elements and or functions it should be appreciated that different combinations of elements and or functions may be provided by alternative embodiments without departing from the scope of the appended claims. In this regard for example different combinations of elements and or functions than those explicitly described above are also contemplated as may be set forth in some of the appended claims. In cases where advantages benefits or solutions to problems are described herein it should be appreciated that such advantages benefits and or solutions may be applicable to some example embodiments but not necessarily all example embodiments. Thus any advantages benefits or solutions described herein should not be thought of as being critical required or essential to all embodiments or to that which is claimed herein. Although specific terms are employed herein they are used in a generic and descriptive sense only and not for purposes of limitation.

