---

title: Unified social content platform
abstract: A system can optionally include a social network database configured to store social network information records related to a user of the social network, wherein the social network database is configured to classify an individual information record according to the user of the social network and at least one of an application that generated the individual information record and an object of the individual information record. The system can further include a processor configured to identify ones of the information records as classified in the social network database based on at least one of the user and the at least one of the application and the object and transmit data indicative of a common characteristic of the ones of the information records to the social network.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09213760&OS=09213760&RS=09213760
owner: LinkedIn Corporation
number: 09213760
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121127
---
Contemporary social networks can conventionally allow users of the social network to upload personal data and other information to the social network and establish relationships with other users of the social network. Such data information and relationships can be utilized by the users and by the social network infrastructure to create and convey postings on the social network informing the social network users of information and activities of the various users of the social network. The source of such postings can derive from the direct input of a user such as by posting a self crafted message for viewing by other users of the social network. In addition the social network infrastructure itself can create postings such as to update users as to new relationships between users user career changes and so forth.

Example methods and systems are directed to a unified social content platform. Examples merely typify possible variations. Unless explicitly stated otherwise components and functions are optional and may be combined or subdivided and operations may vary in sequence or be combined or subdivided. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth to provide a thorough understanding of example embodiments. It will be evident to one skilled in the art however that the present subject matter may be practiced without these specific details.

Certain social networks may utilize disparate systems for creating postings for display on the social network. As an example one system may generate postings relating to a change in employment status for users while a second system may generate postings related to user activities. Consequently such a social network may either have various postings that have inconsistent formats or wording or may create difficulties or inefficiencies in providing for the generation of consistent postings because a change in formatting may involve proceeding into every separate system to change the format such changes may be time consuming and subject to error.

In addition because separate systems may incorporate disparate data management methodologies the storage of social network information that may be utilized to create postings may be similarly fragmented. For instance data on a user activity may be stored in a way that is accessible through searching first for the user and then the activity rather than for instance searching for the activity directly. As a result an attempted search for related activities without respect to the users conducting the activities may be inefficient difficult or impossible in such a social network. Consequently searches that cross the bounds of the individual systems that make up a social network may omit useful information or be limited in scope.

A unified social content platform has been created that can incorporate common publication and data retrieval across the social network. The unified platform can provide a template for the display of some or all social network generated information. The unified platform can be utilized to create changes in the display format that can be automatically and quickly or essentially instantly applied throughout the social network by changing the format in the unified platform. In addition data stored by the social network can be associated with respect to other data according to various standards permitting for instance detailed searches that can be based not on how the data was obtained but according to the nature of the data itself. Thus a user activity can be searched for according to the user who engaged in the activity or according to related activities or other factors.

Within the context of a social network disclosed herein content can be defined as relatively complex domain specific media that can utilize server resources to be created and maintained. An activity in contrast can describe an event such as when content is created shared or otherwise interacted with on the social network. An activity can include a summary of content and a link to the content.

The social network server can be communicatively coupled to the network . The server can be an individual server or a cluster of servers and can be configured to perform activities related to serving the social network such as storing social network information processing social network information according to scripts and software applications transmitting information to present social network information to users of the social network and receive information from users of the social network. The server can include one or more electronic data storage devices such as a hard drive and can include a processor. The social network server can store information related to members of the social network. For instance for an individual person the member s information can include name age gender profession location activities likes and dislikes and so forth. For an organization such as a company the information can include name offered products for sale available job postings organizational interests forthcoming activities and the like.

The server includes a unified social content platform . The unified social content platform can include or be provisioned by the processor and electronic storage devices of the server . The unified social content platform can store and access social network information on the electronic storage devices can reside on the electronic storage devices and can utilize or be provided by the processor.

In various examples the electronic data storage can be or can include an information record data storage A and an electronic data index B. The information record data storage A can be a durable storage of data files including information records either for long term storage for dormant files or for files actively utilized by the unified social content platform . In various examples the electronic data index B can be utilized for searching functions such as to identify files such as information records without necessarily accessing the files during the search. In various examples the electronic data index B is non durable data storage in that the index merely includes information relating to files rather than the files themselves.

In the illustrated example the server includes social network applications such as can interface with provide and obtain social network information from the user devices and other sources. The server further includes a developer application configured to allow administrators or developers of the social network to register new criteria for the unified social content platform to provide information on the social network as disclosed herein. The developer application can include or access a user interface and can access the management API . The developer application can allow a developer to create custom social network applications while also adhering to a substantially uniform aesthetic and front end rendering. The uniform social content platform can publish developed applications to the social network substantially immediately.

The unified social content platform can include a data model that includes standard fields that can be applied across social network application and activities. The data model can include standard fields such as a destination and a visibility of an application. The data model can further include a data field for user defined fields such as can be provided by a developer via the developer application or by a user of the social network.

The publishing API can be called by an application to publish activity to the unified social content platform . Published applications can be queried by at least the unified social content platform and identified to a user such as via the developer application . Upon being published the applications can also be sent to a pipeline to be provisioned to the user devices via the social network.

The processor can manage the pipeline such as with dedicated pipeline software. The processor can attach data onto activity items that are provided such as by applications to the user devices via the social network. Such data can include summaries of users such as users acting on the applications and objects in an activity. In an example if the actor is a member of the social network then the actor s name profile picture or profile picture uniform resource locator URL and or other data regarding the member of the social network. In an example if the object of the action is a webpage a summary of the web page can be attached. The processor can also be configured such as within its pipelining functionality to store an activity such as in the form of an information record to a long term electronic storage A provide a search term to a search index in electronic storage B tally an activity index count and send an event notification to offline storage.

The unified social content platform can further include a summarizer module . The summarizer module can identify a body of an activity item. The body can include a subject verb and or object of the activity item. The body can be provided for searching of activities with the body providing certain commonly sought data points for typical searches. The summarizer module can be included in a language translated or translatable format for searching in various languages. The summarizer module can annotate the body with the location of entities so that the entities can be highlighted and or hyperlinked by a renderer. Annotations can identify the text that is annotated by start and end offset indices.

The body of the activity items generated by the unified social content platform can be common among all applications. The user devices can be configured to render activities transmitted from the unified social content platform without having to be separately configured for different applications. The content summary can accompany the body in an activity. The body and the content summary can be utilized to create consistent content displays and developer applications. The body can be annotated with semantic regions allowing users and developers to tailor the display of bodies based on the context. In an example if a particular company is mentioned in a body the annotation can indicate to a user device to generate and or display a profile of the company.

The summarizer module can in certain examples create a body for display such as upon having identified the body. The summarizer module can decorate an activity view such as on a user device with locale dependent views of entities such as members companies and so forth. The summarizer module can render a template according to context and dedicated helper functions. Upon rendering a fully formed body string can be displayed within a display region to show the body.

The unified social content platform can optionally include additional APIs or templates for certain dedicated tasks. The unified social content platform can include a query template for regularizing queries of stored materials. In an example the unified social content platform can include rendering templates that can be used in cross platform applications. Such cross platform applications can include as aspects of the social network that is not necessarily provided by the unified social content platform . The rendering templates can be built and registered via the developer application . Applications may select between and among the rendering templates for use with activity items.

In an example the social content platform includes a comment API to append comments to activities or other material managed by the unified social content platform . The comment API can optionally create discussion threads upon the establishment of a comment. Comments can be aggregated with other activity data such as social gestures such as indications that a user likes an activity or content.

The processor can provision a pipeline to transmit applications generated by the unified social content platform to the social network generally such as to be displayed on a user device . The pipelining process can utilize a rich objects layout block to convert conventional text into presentational layouts that include graphics stylized text and so forth. The rich objects layout block can be provided by the processor or can be provided by dedicated resources such as processors and electronic memory. The pipeline provided by the processor can further provide storage and indexing of applications in various examples with or without rich object layouts. The pipeline can be accessible to other applications being generated in the unified social content platform and in various examples elsewhere in the system allowing applications in the pipeline to be utilized for other development purposes. The system generally and in various examples the unified social content platform specifically can incorporate pipeline monitoring functionality to identify applications in the pipeline such as by according to a unique identifier.

The unified social content platform can include data on members of the social network the social graph of the members of the social network and content summaries of applications. The social graph data may be remote to the server or to the social network generally such as by incorporating distributed social graph information from multiple sources outside of the social network. Such distributed social graph information can be accessed as part of a query execution. These data can include dependent data. In an example the member data can include fields indicating member activity a member age bracket whether member connections are allowed whether an open link is allowed by the member member group information member connections member country a date the member registered with the social network a default locale a member profile viewer a member web profile various member group exclusions a member name a member gender a member social generation a member time zone or time zone offset a member job industry a identification of an inviter of the member to the social network a time the member last checked the social network a last time the member logged in to the social network a member name preference a member geographic location a member unique identifier a member picture a member email address a member status a member postal code a preferred member locale a number of social network proposals accepted by the member a member region whether the member requires or required referral to the social network or functions of the social network member restrictions a member state a member social network subscription plan a member vanity name a web profile setting and a member age.

In various examples the unified social content platform can be wholly or substantially self contained sufficient. In various examples the unified social content platform does not make sideways calls to another equivalently tiered block. Rather like certain super blocks known in the art the unified social content platform can in certain examples make calls down to general infrastructure blocks. Such infrastructure blocks can include the electronic data storage certain functions that may be provided by the processor such as the pipelining function. Cloud computing functions known in the art can be included as infrastructure.

In various examples equivalent mid tier calls can be made by the unified social content platform to other mid tier or super blocks. In an example another block can provide proxy calls to the unified social content platform . In such an example various services can provide data to decorate onto the result of the proxy call. Alternatively the unified social content platform can monitor streaming data from mid tier or super blocks and maintain read only replicas of data from the other mid tier or super blocks.

The unified social content platform can be published with extension points or service provider interfaces SPI . The unified social content platform can be published as a raw schema and or as a dedicated client library with an SPI including interfaces that can be implemented to the unified social content platform as well as to the schemas to for instance permit the addition of processing elements to the processor . The APIs and SPIs of the system generally can be built as independent tasks.

The screen includes a body of an activity as generated by the summarizer module . The illustrative example body includes an actor field a verb field an object field and an attributed entity field . The unified social content platform can include text to link together the body fields into a grammatically coherent way. The linking text can be included by a developer such as via the developer application in the development of the pertinent application or according to an engine of the unified social content platform that can generate appropriate and substantially grammatically correct phrases.

The body can be generated based on an information record . The information record can include various information from activities and other occurrences within or in relation to the social network including information that can be utilized to populate the individual body fields . The information records can be stored only with the discrete information for the body fields or can include a wider range of information that can be parsed to arrive at the information for the individual body fields . In an example the body itself can be an information record.

The body can be organized and presented according to rendering templates as noted above. Such templates can be predefined within the unified social content platform and in certain examples may be required for use by all applications. In various non limiting examples the rendering templates can include singular actor past tense verb object singular actor past tense verb activity singular actor past tense verb two actors past tense verb object two actors past tense verb activity three person actors past tense verb object three non person actors past tense verb object three person actors past tense verb activity three non person actors past tense verb activity actor past tense verb two objects actor past tense verb three objects and additional combinations and permutations consistent with the rendering of text.

In various examples the rendering templates can be utilized in rendering the body in multiple languages. In an example the rendering templates are in English. Upon the selection and population of the English rendering template with the body fields as appropriate to the rendering template the body is then translated from English to the desired language. In various examples an available automated translation program is utilized or the body is manually translated by a human operator.

Alternatively rendering templates can be created in multiple languages and utilized to create the body in those languages utilizing the body fields as input. In such examples the templates are stored in multiple languages and the appropriate language template selected for rendering the body in a given language. The body fields can be separately translated as appropriate for inclusion in the rendering template in the particular language. Certain rendering templates may not have a one to one relationship between languages due to potential formatting and language rule variations between languages a concept that may be applied with a single template in one language may require two or more templates in a second language due to differing grammatical rules.

The actor can be an entity that initiated the activity that is the current subject of the screen . The actor can be a person or a company or any entity that can be identified. The verb can be a complex type registered with an application . Registration can be based on a user selection via the developer application and can be changed dynamically. Conjugation can be specified by the developer when the verb is registered. A registered verb may also define custom properties by specifying each property s name and type. When a developer publishes an activity the publisher can spicy the verb and provide values for various properties. Development comments can be appended to verbs in various examples.

The object is an entity acted upon by an activity statement. The object can be an entity that has an identifier. The object can be an entity identified by a URL. The object can be an entity that can be summarized with a title and variously an image a description and a URL from a publisher of the object. In various examples a social summary can be included to record social network actions related to the activity. In various examples an activity can not include an object and can be referred to as a post .

The object can take the form of a target . The target can be utilized where the object is part of a larger class. For instance X applied for a job at Y provides Y as an example of a target where Y is a specific company.

An attributed activity or application can be the originator of the activity. The attributed activity can be provided where the actor of the activity is not the entity that originated the activity. In an exemplary format X shared a link from Y where X and Y are both actors provides an attributed activity.

Standard and custom actions can be available for an activity. Additional actions may be provided by a publisher or developer once the action is registered with the developer application . In query results standard and custom actions can be attached to pertinent activities and in an example to each pertinent activity for rendering.

Custom properties may be defined for verbs and objects. Once defined can activity can be published with the properties. On output comments and counts of other social actions can be attached to each activity to facilitate rendering the comments and counts can be render inline with the activities. Similar activities can be grouped into common families according to a selectable data field of the activity Annotations can allow semantic regions of text to be marked up upon displaying an activity.

Verbs objects and other data types disclosed herein can be customized. Data types can be primitive or complex according to their number of customizable properties. Properties can be utilized to specify data type layout on the screen such as according to syntax and appearance. The develop application can be utilized to customize such properties. The properties can be selectable and customizable according to standard protocols known in the art or according to proprietary protocols.

The developer application screen includes menu tabs to select various functions of the developer application . The tabs can include an application creation tab a verb creation tab an object creation tab and a feed creation tab . Various tabs can be excluded dependent on operational needs while additional tabs can be included as needed or as may be convenient. The tabs can be supplemented by or replaced with other conventional menu selections known in the art.

The tabs or other menu options can provide access to corresponding frames as illustrated a verb creation frame corresponding to the verb creation tab . The verb creation frame provides new verb specification field for the specification of the verb conjugations of the verb and similar information and new verb property fields such as can specify activities and applications to which the verb applies. Similar fields for specifying objects and the like can be available on frames corresponding to other tabs .

An application creation frame accessible by the application creation tab can include fields to specify a name a namespace and a description of the application. Each application can be specified a unique identifier. The application creation frame can further include fields for application attribution to specify how an attribution is displayed in an activity body such as where in a sentence the attribution is displayed e.g. X commented on Y via Z . Application attribution can be located in a separate frame or be accessible by a separate tab.

The verb creation frame can include fields for an un conjugated form of the verb conjugated forms of the verb and fields for custom properties of the verb. The developer application can provide estimated conjugations of the un conjugated in the conjugated verb fields that can be subject to editing via the fields . The verb creation frame can display an example activity that includes the verb.

An object type creation frame accessible by the object creation tab can provide fields for entering the type of an object such as a branch a grammatical article e.g. a or an that may in certain examples be an estimated article by the developer application and fields to specify a singular and a plural form of the object. Additional fields may provide for the specification of custom properties of the object. Optional templates may be presented and selected for use with the object as well as a preview of an example activity using the object.

The object type creation frame can further include fields specifying how to treat an object that appears as a target such as what prepositions to use with respect to the object as a target. In various examples objects can be referred to by type such as a general classification of the object rather than by the object itself. By way of comparison an orange can be specified to be referred to as an orange or as a fruit .

The query type creation frame can be utilized for the creation of a feed such as in a browsing query language BQL as well as to define attributes that are referenced in a query. A preview of the feed for the query can be rendered in the frame and or saved for future use or application. A unique identifier can be assigned to the feed. Each feed can be assigned a URL. Accessing the URL can display the query utilized to generate the feed.

Various applications and the components of the applications can be made generally accessible to developers who have access to the developer application. Such applications can be generally available and subject to being modified by any developer such as by locking the application while a developer is making changes and then releasing the application for another developer to make changes. Certain applications can be designated as being not publicly modifiable.

In various examples the developer application can support the generation of aggregated or consolidated applications. In an example where multiple entities have acted on the same object an aggregated application can be generated. e.g. X and Y have commented on Z s update. In an example where an entity has acted on multiple objects an aggregated application can be generated. e.g. A has joined B and C. In an example where an entity has performed multiple actions a single collapsible and expandable update can be generated. e.g. K has commented on L s update K is now connected to M and K read N s article can be consolidated to K has commented on L s update. show more from K The unified social content platform can be based on indexed search criteria that can return for instance all of the activities of a particular entity over a predetermined time period. The unified social content platform can periodically search for entities and objects in the search index to identify pertinent information that can support aggregated or consolidated actions.

The model can form the basis for rendering by providing instructions to the client side such as the user device . The client side can utilize the model to render the activity. Based on changes promulgated to the client side upon an updated standard for rendering the model the rendering itself may be changed and updated without having to change the model or the activity itself.

The unified social content platform can provide multiple models. The number of models may be limited in order to prevent undesired lack of uniformity. However the number of models may be selectable to permit desired flexibility. Various models can include a basic model that includes one each of the picture field the headline field and the summary field . An additional model can include a gallery view that includes multiple picture fields and in various examples no summary field . A list view model can include an expanded summary field such as includes a bulleted list and that optionally does not include a picture field .

In an example a developer can chose from among the pre defined models. For each model the developer an establish how to fill in each field such as with specified images bodies verbs objects and so forth. The model can be stored in the electronic data storage as a model schema. Each field can be assessed upon return of the model from the electronic data storage for changes in the properties of the items that fill the fields .

To conduct rendering the client side such as the client device can be provided with a parser function to transform the body into an appropriate format based on the context of the client device such as whether the client device is a desktop computer a mobile device and so forth. The client device can further be provided with a renderer function that can transform the model into the appropriate context. Based on the combination of the body and the model the client device can render the complete activity in the consistent format established throughout the application of the social network.

In operation social network information is obtained from the social network. The social network information can include activities in or related to the social network and other information described herein.

In operation the social network information is stored in the electronic data storage such as an information record . The information record can include the user associated with the social network information and the at least one of the application and the object associated with the social network information. In an example each information record is associated with an individual one of the applications with at least one of the applications generating social network information in a format that is incompatible with a format of other ones of the applications.

In operation the social network information is formatted and stored in the electronic data storage A as an electronic data record . The format can be a common format among all of the electronic data records .

In operation individual social network information records are classified according to the related user of the social network and at least one of the application that generated the individual information record and an object of the individual information record . The object of the information record can be the object displayed in the object field . In various examples the information record is classified according to individual ones of the body fields .

In operation social network information records as classified are stored in a social network database . In various examples the social network information records as classified are stored in information record storage A as part of the index B below or both.

In operation ones of the information records as classified in the social network database are identified based on at least one of the associated user and at least one of the associated application and the associated object. In various examples the information records may be identified according to individual ones of the body fields .

In operation the information record such as is identified in operation is formatted with an essentially equivalent one of the actor the verb the object and the attributed entity according to a common format based on the one of the actor the verb the object and the attributed entity such as can be included in the body fields . Formatting the information record can be to place the information record in the format of the body such as according to a rendering template. Formatting the information record can be in a plurality of languages.

In operation information indicative of the information record is transmitted to the social network. In various examples the information indicative of the information record is in the format of the body .

The machine includes a processor e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a radio frequency integrated circuit RFIC or any suitable combination thereof a main memory and a static memory which are configured to communicate with each other via a bus . The machine may further include a graphics display e.g. a plasma display panel PDP a light emitting diode LED display a liquid crystal display LCD a projector or a cathode ray tube CRT . The machine may also include an alphanumeric input device e.g. a keyboard a cursor control device e.g. a mouse a touchpad a trackball a joystick a motion sensor or other pointing instrument a storage unit a signal generation device e.g. a speaker and a network interface device .

The storage unit includes a machine readable medium on which is stored the instructions e.g. software embodying any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The instructions may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory within the processor e.g. within the processor s cache memory or both during execution thereof by the machine . Accordingly the main memory and the processor may be considered as machine readable media. The instructions may be transmitted or received over a network via the network interface device .

As used herein the term memory refers to a machine readable medium able to store data temporarily or permanently and may be taken to include but not be limited to random access memory RAM read only memory ROM buffer memory flash memory and cache memory. While the machine readable medium is shown in an example embodiment to be a single medium the term machine readable medium should be taken to include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database or associated caches and servers able to store instructions. The term machine readable medium shall also be taken to include any medium or combination of multiple media that is capable of storing instructions e.g. software for execution by a machine e.g. machine such that the instructions when executed by one or more processors of the machine e.g. processor cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies described herein. Accordingly a machine readable medium refers to a single storage apparatus or device as well as cloud based storage systems or storage networks that include multiple storage apparatus or devices. The term machine readable medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to one or more data repositories in the form of a solid state memory an optical medium a magnetic medium or any suitable combination thereof.

Throughout this specification plural instances may implement components operations or structures described as a single instance. Although individual operations of one or more methods are illustrated and described as separate operations one or more of the individual operations may be performed concurrently and nothing requires that the operations be performed in the order illustrated. Structures and functionality presented as separate components in example configurations may be implemented as a combined structure or component. Similarly structures and functionality presented as a single component may be implemented as separate components. These and other variations modifications additions and improvements fall within the scope of the subject matter herein.

Certain embodiments are described herein as including logic or a number of components modules or mechanisms. Modules may constitute either software modules e.g. code embodied on a machine readable medium or in a transmission signal or hardware modules. A hardware module is a tangible unit capable of performing certain operations and may be configured or arranged in a certain physical manner. In various example embodiments one or more computer systems e.g. a standalone computer system a client computer system or a server computer system or one or more hardware modules of a computer system e.g. a processor or a group of processors may be configured by software e.g. an application or application portion as a hardware module that operates to perform certain operations as described herein.

In some embodiments a hardware module may be implemented mechanically electronically or any suitable combination thereof. For example a hardware module may include dedicated circuitry or logic that is permanently configured to perform certain operations. For example a hardware module may be a special purpose processor such as a field programmable gate array FPGA or an ASIC. A hardware module may also include programmable logic or circuitry that is temporarily configured by software to perform certain operations. For example a hardware module may include software encompassed within a general purpose processor or other programmable processor. It will be appreciated that the decision to implement a hardware module mechanically in dedicated and permanently configured circuitry or in temporarily configured circuitry e.g. configured by software may be driven by cost and time considerations.

Accordingly the phrase hardware module should be understood to encompass a tangible entity be that an entity that is physically constructed permanently configured e.g. hardwired or temporarily configured e.g. programmed to operate in a certain manner or to perform certain operations described herein. As used herein hardware implemented module refers to a hardware module. Considering embodiments in which hardware modules are temporarily configured e.g. programmed each of the hardware modules need not be configured or instantiated at any one instance in time. For example where a hardware module comprises a general purpose processor configured by software to become a special purpose processor the general purpose processor may be configured as respectively different special purpose processors e.g. comprising different hardware modules at different times. Software may accordingly configure a processor for example to constitute a particular hardware module at one instance of time and to constitute a different hardware module at a different instance of time.

Hardware modules can provide information to and receive information from other hardware modules. Accordingly the described hardware modules may be regarded as being communicatively coupled. Where multiple hardware modules exist contemporaneously communications may be achieved through signal transmission e.g. over appropriate circuits and buses between or among two or more of the hardware modules. In embodiments in which multiple hardware modules are configured or instantiated at different times communications between such hardware modules may be achieved for example through the storage and retrieval of information in memory structures to which the multiple hardware modules have access. For example one hardware module may perform an operation and store the output of that operation in a memory device to which it is communicatively coupled. A further hardware module may then at a later time access the memory device to retrieve and process the stored output. Hardware modules may also initiate communications with input or output devices and can operate on a resource e.g. a collection of information .

The various operations of example methods described herein may be performed at least partially by one or more processors that are temporarily configured e.g. by software or permanently configured to perform the relevant operations. Whether temporarily or permanently configured such processors may constitute processor implemented modules that operate to perform one or more operations or functions described herein. As used herein processor implemented module refers to a hardware module implemented using one or more processors.

Similarly the methods described herein may be at least partially processor implemented a processor being an example of hardware. For example at least some of the operations of a method may be performed by one or more processors or processor implemented modules. Moreover the one or more processors may also operate to support performance of the relevant operations in a cloud computing environment or as a software as a service SaaS . For example at least some of the operations may be performed by a group of computers as examples of machines including processors with these operations being accessible via a network e.g. the Internet and via one or more appropriate interfaces e.g. an application program interface API .

The performance of certain of the operations may be distributed among the one or more processors not only residing within a single machine but deployed across a number of machines. In some example embodiments the one or more processors or processor implemented modules may be located in a single geographic location e.g. within a home environment an office environment or a server farm . In other example embodiments the one or more processors or processor implemented modules may be distributed across a number of geographic locations.

Some portions of this specification are presented in terms of algorithms or symbolic representations of operations on data stored as bits or binary digital signals within a machine memory e.g. a computer memory . These algorithms or symbolic representations are examples of techniques used by those of ordinary skill in the data processing arts to convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art. As used herein an algorithm is a self consistent sequence of operations or similar processing leading to a desired result. In this context algorithms and operations involve physical manipulation of physical quantities. Typically but not necessarily such quantities may take the form of electrical magnetic or optical signals capable of being stored accessed transferred combined compared or otherwise manipulated by a machine. It is convenient at times principally for reasons of common usage to refer to such signals using words such as data content bits values elements symbols characters terms numbers numerals or the like. These words however are merely convenient labels and are to be associated with appropriate physical quantities.

Unless specifically stated otherwise discussions herein using words such as processing computing calculating determining presenting displaying or the like may refer to actions or processes of a machine e.g. a computer that manipulates or transforms data represented as physical e.g. electronic magnetic or optical quantities within one or more memories e.g. volatile memory non volatile memory or any suitable combination thereof registers or other machine components that receive store transmit or display information. Furthermore unless specifically stated otherwise the terms a or an are herein used as is common in patent documents to include one or more than one instance. Finally as used herein the conjunction or refers to a non exclusive or unless specifically stated otherwise.

