---

title: Shaped lens antenna for direction finding at the Ka-band
abstract: A high gain antenna for direction finding in the Ka-band. The antenna consists of a lens antenna fed by two micro strip patch antennas. The printed patch antennas are fed by a 180 degree hybrid coupler having four ports, with two ports connected to the feeds of the patch antennas and the other two ports connected to the receiver/exciter. The hybrid sums the signals from the patches and subtracts the signals from the patches to form sum and difference channels. By comparing the sum and difference channels, a user can determine whether the signal entered through the main beam. For example, if the sum signal is greater than the difference signal, the signal is in the main beam. If not, the signal came from another angle.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09350086&OS=09350086&RS=09350086
owner: SRC, INC.
number: 09350086
owner_city: North Syracuse
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121109
---
This work derives from research under Government Contract W15P7T 08 C V406. The U.S. Government has rights in this invention.

The present invention relates to Ka band antennas and more specifically to a shaped lens antenna for improved direction finding.

A lens antenna such as a dielectric lens antenna is used for focusing radiated energy in a particular direction. In order to provide direction finding capabilities however such systems generally require expensive part or manufacturing techniques. Accordingly there is a need in the art for a low cost and low loss antenna design for direction finding at Ka band.

The present invention comprises a high gain antenna solution for direction finding in the Ka band. The antenna consists of a lens that is shaped to specific sum and difference patterns and additionally acts as a radome. The antenna further comprises an antenna beamformer comprised of two microstrip patch antennas fed by a 180 degree hybrid coupler having four ports. Two ports are connecting to the antennas feeds and the other two ports connected to the receiver exciter. The hybrid coupler sums the signals from the patches and subtracts the signals from the patches to form the sum and difference channels. By comparing the sum and difference patterns it is possible to determine whether the signal entered through the main beam. If the sum signal is greater than the difference signal the signal is in the main beam. Otherwise the signal came from another angle.

Referring now to the drawings wherein like reference numerals refer to like parts throughout there is seen in an antenna according to the present invention. Referring to antenna comprises a lens a housing having a base and an upstanding side or sides to form a cavity therein and a beamformer assembly positioned in housing . Lens is shaped to form specific sum and difference beam patterns so that the difference beam has a higher gain than the sum beam when outside of the main beam. For example lens may be shaped to apply a Taylor weighting to the beam patterns. Lens also serves as a radome protecting beamformer assembly . Housing supporting lens can also be an extension of or integrally formed with the portion of housing used to contain the electronics.

Lens can be injection molded or milled and also acts as a radome to protect beamformer assembly and associated electronics positioned inside the antenna. Lens may be shaped by using an algorithm that takes into account the patterns from the feed. The feed patterns are used along with Snell s law to shape lens to redistribute the power across the aperture to form the designated weighting function while still collimating the beam. Normally a lens is used for only collimation. In this case lens is also used to modify the magnitude distribution. Because the rays inside lens are being redirected instead of absorbed the weighting function is also very efficient. This is performed for a single spline of the lens due to rotational symmetry. The calculation of the shape of lens involving Snell s law assumes a dielectric constant commensurate with REXOLITE available from C Lec Plastics Inc. of Pennsylvania for example which is a polystyrene microwave plastic that may be used to form lens .

The feed electronics and beamformer may be printed in copper and directed connected to conventional receiver exciter electronics to reduce cost and losses in antenna . For simple operation the two output ports of antenna may be connected to an off the shelf Ka band power meter such as a Rohde Schwarz NRP Z31 with a filter in between to directly measure the sum and different beam levels. These levels can then be compared and the signal direction located when the sum signal becomes greater than the difference signal. More advanced operations may include an integrated receiver with filters low noise amplifiers LNAs and a downconversion chain.

By comparing the difference and sum beams received by antenna it is possible to determine whether or not a signal entered through the main beam. For example if the sum signal is greater than the difference signal the signal is in the main beam. If not the signal came from another angle. Thus the present invention uses the sum and difference pattern for direction finding purposes. Alternatively the sum and difference pattern may also be used for monopulse angle estimation. This arrangement however would result in greater angle accuracy but would be accompanied by higher complexity and increased cost. This type of system would involve an integrated receiver and exciter and would use antenna for transmit as well as receive. Ancillary components would also be needed such as a circulator filters LNAs switches etc. The system would then need to be calibrated to relate the ratio of the sum and difference channels to a particular angle.

Referring to beamformer assembly comprises two microstrip patch antennas and . Patch antennas and can be modified to radiate linear polarization left hand circular polarization or right hand circular polarization. Patch antennas and are fed by a 180 degree hybrid coupler which is a four port device having two ports connected to the feeds of patch antennas and and the other two ports connected to a conventional receiver exciter not shown or filter and power meter as described above. Hybrid coupler sums the signals from patch antennas and and subtracts the signals from patch antennas and to form the sum and difference channels. Lens is shaped to match the pattern of the feed antennas so that the pattern of the feed antennas is an integral part of the design of lens . Hybrid coupler may be designed in copper on the same board stackup as the patch antennas.

There is seen in a graph of the sum and difference patterns for an antenna according to the present invention. In this example lens of antenna was shaped to apply a Taylor weighting to the beam patterns which reduces the level of the sum beam sidelobes and increases the level of the difference beam sidelobes. This arrangement causes the difference beam sidelobes to sufficiently cover the sum beam sidelobes. If the output ports are connected to a filter and power meter as described above the user would be able to monitor the power levels and record when the sum beam signal was greater than the difference beam signal. This would correspond to the direction of the signal source.

