---

title: Centrally managing and monitoring of cloud computing services
abstract: A computer system that monitors attributes related to cloud computing services is disclosed. A request may be received via a portal within a common connection and database framework. The computer system may generate an internet-based interface that is configured to provide access to the attributes. The computer system may process selection criteria for an object related to the cloud computing services within the internet-based interface to be monitored within the common connection and database framework.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09026620&OS=09026620&RS=09026620
owner: III Holdings 1, LLC
number: 09026620
owner_city: Wilmington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120806
---
This application is a continuation of application Ser. No. 12 750 894 filed Mar. 31 2010 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 271 615 which claims the benefit of U.S. provisional Application No. 61 202 738 entitled Internet Based Portal System Method And Program For Supporting Operations Of Multiple Non Integrated Internet Hosted Services And Internal Services filed on Mar. 31 2009 the contents of which are fully incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention generally relates to a multi tenant software as a service SaaS application or cloud computing service that manages and monitors the use of other SaaS applications or cloud computing services via a centralized common connection and database framework.

SaaS refers to a software application delivery model where a software vendor develops a web native software application and hosts and operates the application for use by its customers over the Internet. SaaS applications are an increasingly popular model for providing software functionality as it is economical in terms of both cost and customer hardware resources. As SaaS applications and services become more readily available it is evident that more corporate entities in particular will adopt these services as a replacement for on premise solutions.

These SaaS services are also referred to as cloud computing services. These cloud computing services may relate to applications such as email financial systems accounting bookkeeping and others. The challenge related to such cloud computing services is that they are offered by different entities spread across the Internet. Thus as the availability of cloud computing services multiply the administrative overhead needed to monitor and manage these services will also multiply. Thus it is desirable to reduce the time and effort required for the administrative overhead needed to monitor and manage these SaaS applications or cloud computing services.

An embodiment of the invention is directed to a method for monitoring and managing the use of a plurality of SaaS applications or cloud computing services within a common connection and database framework.

The method includes receiving a request for monitoring and managing information and attributes related to the SaaS applications or cloud computing services wherein the request is received via a single portal within the common connection and database framework. An Internet based interface is then displayed which is configured to display select and access information and attributes related to the SaaS applications or cloud computing services.

Using the Internet based interface a selection of an object related to the SaaS applications or cloud computing services to be monitored and managed is received. When monitoring is performed on the selected object the monitoring includes selecting at least one item from a list of available items on which to perform a monitoring operation based on the object selected selecting at least one SaaS application or cloud computing service from a list of available SaaS applications related to the object selected selecting a type of report for reporting monitoring results selecting a time period for performing monitoring if the time period is necessary and providing a monitoring result report.

On the other hand when management is performed on the selected object the management includes selecting a management operation for the object selected selecting at least one SaaS application or cloud computing service and at least one item from a list of available SaaS applications or cloud computing services and a list of available items related to the object selected performing the management operation on the at least one item selected and for at least one SaaS application or cloud computing service selected and storing a result of the management operation performed.

The monitoring and managing of the information and attributes can be performed for selected categories objects items and SaaS applications or cloud computing services displayed in the Internet based interface via the single portal within the common connection and database framework.

The method also includes partitioning of the information and attributes available for display selection and access via the Internet based interface wherein the partitioning is based on SaaS applications or cloud computing services registered to a user or corporate entity. For example each user or corporate entity may have associated objects and object attributes related to SaaS applications or cloud computing services that can be accessed using a unique but common identification key. Such a key can be used to create logical partitions for each of the users or corporate entities.

An example of the monitoring operation includes reading extracting analyzing correlating and reporting information wherein the management operation includes but is not limited to reading writing modifying deleting and copying. Additionally the monitoring result may be provided via a textual or graphical representation. The objects include but are not limited to users groups policies mailboxes and phones and the items include subsets of the users the groups the policies the mailboxes and the phones related the use of the SaaS applications or cloud computing services.

In an embodiment of the invention a method for monitoring and managing SaaS applications or cloud computing services within a common connection and database framework provides a social networking infrastructure that allows sharing of information related to the plurality of SaaS applications or cloud computing services by connecting to the common connection and database framework. The information may include existing experiences with the use of an SaaS application or cloud computing service or a rating of an SaaS application or cloud computing service. The information can be presented in a graphical format along with text comments related to the rating of the SaaS application or cloud computing service. Additionally an embodiment of the invention includes providing an application exchange infrastructure that allows for the exchange of information related to the user defined code submission interface with this application and SaaS applications or cloud computing services.

Another embodiment of the invention is directed to a program stored on a non transitory computer readable storage medium for monitoring and managing the use of the SaaS applications or cloud computing services within a common connection and database framework the program causes a computer to perform the methods of the embodiments of the invention noted above.

An embodiment of the invention is directed a system for monitoring and managing the use SaaS applications or cloud computing services within a common connection and database framework. The system includes databases configured to store information and attributes related to the SaaS applications or cloud computing services wherein the databases include an objects database a methods database and a logs database.

Additionally the system includes an Internet based interface configured to display select and access the information and attributes related to the SaaS applications or cloud computing services and a first data access layer configured to establish data communications between the Internet based interface and the databases based on a command received from the Internet based interface wherein the data communications includes but is not limited to retrieving and storing the information and attributes related to the SaaS applications or cloud computing services

A push pull data layer is configured to push data to and pull data from the SaaS applications or cloud computing services based on a command received via the Internet based interface and a second data access layer configured to established data communications between the push pull data layer and the SaaS applications or cloud computing services based on a command received from the Internet based interface.

The system also includes a first network interface configured to establish a connection to the Internet based interface from a third party apparatus via a public network and a second network interface configured to establish a connection between the push pull data layer and the SaaS applications or cloud computing services via the public network.

If desired the system is configured to monitor and manage selected information and attributes of the SaaS applications or cloud computing services available within the Internet based interface via a single portal to the system via the first network interface and the public network.

An embodiment of the invention is directed to an apparatus for monitoring and managing the use of SaaS applications or cloud computing services within a common connection and database framework. The apparatus includes an Internet based interface configured to display select and access information and attributes related to the SaaS applications or cloud computing services and a first data access layer configured to establish data communications between the apparatus and a plurality of databases based on a command received via the Internet based interface wherein the data communications including storing and retrieving the information and attributes stored in the plurality of databases.

The apparatus includes a push pull data layer configured to push data to and pull data from the SaaS applications or cloud computing services based on a command received via the Internet based interface and a second data access layer configured to establish data communications between the apparatus and the SaaS applications or cloud computing services based on a command received from said push pull data layer.

If desired the apparatus is configured to monitor and manage selected information and attributes of the SaaS applications or cloud computing services available within the Internet based interface via a single portal to the apparatus via the public network.

Additionally in other embodiments of the invention both the system and apparatus include a social networking infrastructure and an application exchange infrastructure that allows sharing of information related to the plurality of SaaS applications or cloud computing services by connecting to the common connection and database framework.

Additional features are described herein and will be apparent from the following description of the figures.

In the description that follows numerous details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the invention. It will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that variations of these specific details are possible while still achieving the results of the invention. Well known elements and processing steps are generally not described in detail in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the description of the invention.

In the drawings accompanying the description that follows often both reference numerals and legends labels text descriptions may be used to identify elements. If legends are provided they are intended merely as an aid to the reader and should not in any way be interpreted as limiting.

Starting from the top of all external connections to and from the system are performed over the public Internet . A firewall provides standard encryption protocols used to secure communications to and from the system and to and from the SaaS applications or cloud computing services via the Internet . The firewall may be a part of the system but is preferably provided as part of a supporting infrastructure that provides protection the system as a whole.

A user interface to the system is provided as an Internet based e.g. front end portal . The primary component of the portal includes a dashboard that acts as a container for all other user interface elements or widgets for initiated functions of the system . The widgets are graphical elements that are linked and dependant on a push pull data layer or user defined code submissions hereafter referred to as user defined code submissions . The user defined code submissions can be for example a PHP computer language that allows data communications within the framework of the system via the dashboard of portal and to the SaaS applications or cloud computing services via the Internet . For example the user defined code submissions allows the system to push data to and pull data from the SaaS applications or cloud computing services based on an activity initialed from the dashboard of the portal or at periodic intervals. Additionally the widgets also contain links or shortcuts to other functions of the system available through the portable .

The graphic elements or widgets are not confined to a stationary location but can be moved docked and undocked from the dashboard of the portal by the user of the system . To this end the dashboard of the portal is dynamic in nature and can be customized.

A data access layer provides access to and from the databases . The databases include but are not limited to an objects database a methods database and a logs database . The object database contains all tables queries stored procedures and application code required to store add append delete modify and execute all methods to objects and object attributes defined therein. All write and query operations against the object database are controlled and brokered via the data access layer . The data access layer validates and secures all connections to and from the object database . The object and object attribute are configured and defined by the users of the system so as to manipulate the corresponding SaaS and cloud computing objects and object attributes as defined and provided in the user defined code submissions related to the SaaS applications or cloud computing services . The user of the system may be an individual user of the system or preferably a corporate entity.

The objects and object attributes are stored in the object database in a cross tabular format to allow the system to index and quickly query across all object and object attributes stored in the system . The system can synchronize specific objects and object attributes and subsets of object attributes with external sources such as but not limited to LDAP XML CVS TSV and XLS as provided by the user of the system . Synchronization with these external sources is defined by the user and will be controlled secured and normalized by the data access layer . This synchronization can be performed in a single or bi directional method.

The methods database contains all tables queries stored procedures and application code required to store add append delete modify and execute all actions available to be performed against object and object attributes related to the SaaS applications or cloud computing services. Actions contained within this database include but are not limited to add delete modify copy clone grow and shrink operations. These actions stored in the database are made available to the system framework and the user defined code submissions via the data access layer . All write and query operations against the methods database are controlled and brokered via the data access layer . The data access layer validates and secures all connections to and from the methods database and to and from the user defined code submissions. The available methods set are configured and defined by a system administrator and the user of the system to manipulate the corresponding object or object attributes related to an SaaS application or a cloud computing service defined and provided in the user defined code submissions .

The logs database contains all tables queries stored procedures and application code required to store add append delete modify all activity events incidents security operational performance uptime and other SaaS application or user specific information in the system . The system using user defined time intervals remotely queries and records responses for performance and uptime into the logs database via the data access layer . The uptime and performance queries are performed utilizing standard IP protocols such as ICMP types 8.0 and TCP 80 HTTP . All responses and the time intervals between request and responses via the system are recorded in sequence in the database via the data access layer . The data contained within the database is extracted via the data access layer and presented to the user via textual and graphical representations such as tables graphs plots trends pivots and other reports defined within the system .

The system maintains a logical separation of data contained in the databases to isolate the log data from other users. That is the system performs a partitioning of the information and attributes available for display selection and access via the Internet based interface wherein the partitioning is based on SaaS applications or cloud computing services registered to a user or corporate entity. For example each user or corporate entity company may have associated objects and object attributes related to SaaS applications or cloud computing services that can be accessed using a unique but common identification key for each user or corporate entity. Such a key can be used to create logical partitions for each of the users or corporate entities.

Operations performed by the user defined code submissions with respect to the system are brokered and secured by the API Application Programming Interface and all the code logic functions and parameters contained therein. Additionally all requests by the system to the SaaS applications or cloud computing services are brokered and secured by the APIs of the SaaS applications or cloud computing services and all the code logic functions and parameters contained therein. The API contains all code logic and methods that are made accessible to the user defined code submissions in order to access the framework and databases and perform the primary functions of the system . Additionally the data access layer validates and secures all connections between the databases and the API .

Additionally the API and all associated code methods and logic may not be used to perform the systems secondary function. All operations performed on object or object attributes via the secondary function of the system can automatically be processed and distributed via the plug in framework to the various hosted SaaS application or cloud computing services . The plug in framework will provide as the APIs. The plug in frame work may be a community development of plug ins that will work within the confines of the system framework. The objects and the state of these objects including all associated metadata will be stored in the databases associated with the Internet connected portal .

The widgets displayed in the dashboard are dynamic in nature and can be customized to some extent by the user and based on the SaaS applications or cloud computing services registered to the user. The widgets can interact with the system and the system framework and display information related to SaaS applications or cloud computing services associated with the widgets using for example various graphical and textual formats.

As seen in the dashboard also includes graphical elements related to the primary and secondary functions of the system . For example the two primary function of the system can be initiated by selecting monitor and manage graphical elements of the dashboard . Additionally the secondary function of the system can be initiated by the selecting the connect and search graphical elements of the dashboard . The primary and secondary functions of the system will be explained in more detail with reference to the figures that follow. The dashboard also provides access to a social networking function messages and replies which may be based on the use of SaaS applications or cloud computing services by users and may include access to feedback and ratings of an SaaS application or cloud computing service. The dashboard also provides means for determining overall health of the system latest status updates and options related to advertising .

The dashboard also contains design elements and functional elements such as buttons fly out menus scrolling text and graphics and input dialog boxes. Additionally when a user interacts with one or many of the graphical elements displayed on the dashboard and windows external to the dashboard are generated for more refined user input and interaction. The windows include but are not limited to buttons text graphics input fields drop down menus single and multi select lists expand contract lists and combo boxes. The purpose of these windows is to collect more information from the users for performing the application s primary and secondary functions.

Graphical elements available for display to the user via the dashboard are dependent on what user defined code submissions and related SaaS applications or cloud computing services are registered to the user of the system . The user defined code submissions registered or unregistered to a user populate or omit the options available to the user via the dashboard of the portal . These options would include but are not limited to objects object attributes methods reports and graphical interface elements related to SaaS applications or cloud computing services .

In step the monitoring process can be started by connecting to the system and initiated in step by the selection of a graphical element within the dashboard such as monitor . The monitoring function may also be initiated by selecting an option within one of the other graphical elements e.g. in the dashboard .

When the monitoring function is initiated in step the user will be queried as to what object is to be monitored. That is the user is presented with a list of objects that are available based on the user defined code submissions and SaaS applications or cloud computing services registered to the user. The object listed may relate to but are not limited to user group policy mailbox phone or user defined plug in for SaaS applications or cloud computing services. In step an object is selected by the user via the dashboard . In step it is determined if a selection has been completed and if not the system will again send a query to the user regarding the selection of an object. In step if it is determined that a selection has been completed then the user is presented with a list of available items on which to perform a monitoring operation based on the object selected.

In step the user selects an item or items for performing the monitoring operation based on object selected via the dashboard . In step if it is determined whether a selection has been completed and if not then the user is again sent a query regarding the selection to be performed. In step if it is determined if a selection is complete then the user is presented with a list of associated SaaS applications or cloud computing services for which the monitoring operation of the items or items is to be performed. The list of associated SaaS applications or cloud computing services and items presented to the user is based on the user defined code submissions and SaaS applications or cloud computing services registered to the user. Additionally the SaaS applications or cloud computing services presented to the user depend on the object selected. For example if the object selected is mailbox then only the SaaS applications or cloud computing services presented to the user for selection will relate to e mail services. In step the user makes a selection of the associated SaaS applications or cloud computing services and the items or items via the dashboard .

In step the user selects a type or report for reporting the results of the monitoring being preformed for the SaaS applications or cloud computing services and item or items selected. The user selects the type or report via the dashboard and it is preferred that only one type of report be selected at a time for reporting the monitoring results.

In step the user selects a time variable for performing the monitoring if needed. For example a time variable may include but is not limited to a certain start time and end time for performing the monitoring. Additionally not all reports of monitoring results will require a time variable. In step the results of the monitoring are provided to the user. For example the user can select an option within the dashboard to generate a report for the monitoring being performed. The report can be run and displayed on a screen within the dashboard and the user can print the requested report. In step the user determines if there is any other type of report object items or SaaS applications or cloud computing services for which monitoring results are needed. If so the user can make another selection as in step . On the other hand if no other monitoring results are needed then the user can end the monitoring function performed by the system in step .

In step the managing function can be started by establishing a connection to the system and initiated in step by the selection of a graphical element within the dashboard such as manage . The managing function may also be initiated by selecting an option within one of the other graphical elements e.g. in the dashboard .

When the managing function is initiated in step the user will be queried as to what object is to be managed. That is the user is presented with a list of objects that are available based on the user defined code submissions and SaaS applications or cloud computing services registered to the user. The object listed may relate to but are not limited to user group policy mailbox phone or user defined plug in for SaaS applications or cloud computing services. In step a selection of an object is made via the dashboard . In it is determined if a selection has been completed and if not the system will again send a query to the user regarding the selection of an object.

In step if it is determined that a selection has been completed then in step the user selects a management operation to be performed on the object selected. The management operations available to the user are based on the user defined code submissions and SaaS applications or cloud computing services registered to the user and the selection of a management operation to be performed is made via the dashboard . In step it is determined if a selection of a management operation has been made and if not the user is again sent a query regarding the selection of a management operation.

In step if it is determined that the selection of a management operation is complete then the user is presented with a list of SaaS applications or cloud computing services and items on which to perform the selected management operation. The list of associated SaaS applications or cloud computing services and a list of items available for selection are based on the user defined code submissions and the SaaS applications or cloud computing services register to the user. In step the user makes a selection of an item or items and associated SaaS applications or cloud computing services on which to perform the management operation via the dashboard . The selection by the user may include a single selection or a selection of multiple items and associated SaaS applications or cloud computing services for performing the selected management operation. In step it is determined if the user would like to save the selected management operation for later use and if so in step the management operation is saved in one of the databases and .

After saving the management operation in step the user can choose to make another selection of an object item s and SaaS application s or cloud computing service s on which to perform a management operation in step . Otherwise if the user wishes to perform the selected management operation then in step the selected management operation is performed on the item or items and for the SaaS applications or cloud computing services selected. In step it is determined whether the user would like to make another selection of an object item s and SaaS application s on which to perform a management operation. Otherwise the user can decide to end the management function performed by the system in step .

Each SaaS application and the related user defined code submissions will belong to categories and one or more subcategories. These categories and sub categories aid in the search and organization of the SaaS applications or cloud computing services and the related user define code submissions within the social network and via the dashboard of the portal . The social network allows a subset of the above mentioned functions to be used and viewed by anonymous connections to the system while the full extent of the above mentioned functions are available for registered users only via a membership module. The membership module being a more customized dashboard that would include widgets related to the SaaS applications or cloud computing services and user defined code submission registered to the member.

The social networking function provides users of the system both anonymous and registered aggregate performance data from all SaaS applications or cloud computing services being managed and monitored by the system . This data will be provided in order for potential SaaS or cloud computing customers of particular SaaS or cloud computing services or applications to see what current customers of the SaaS applications or cloud computing services are experiencing with respect for example SLAs uptime and performance. Using this data potential SaaS customers will be able to easily search and discover SaaS or cloud computing providers that are meeting or exceeding real business SLAs in uptime and performance. This in combination with a user rating system provides the users of the social networking function a unique place to review rate and research SaaS providers and their service levels.

As seen in the social network function starts at step when a user requests a connection to the common connection and database framework of the system via the public network . The system displays the dashboard via the internet based portal and the social network function is initiated in step by a selection of graphical element related to the social networking function within the dashboard . In step a list of categories of services available to the user via the social networking function are displayed and the user is queried with regard to the selection of a category of interest. In step it is determined if a selection of a category is complete and if not the user is queried again with regard to making a selection. In step if the selection of the category is complete the user is presented with a list of sub categories of the selected category selected and queried as to a sub category of interest to be selected. In step the user selects a sub category of interest.

In step it is determined if the selection of a sub category is complete and if not the user is queried again with regard to the selection of a subcategory. In step if a selection of sub category is complete then in steps and the user is provided access to and the ability make a selection of the data available for the subcategory selected. As noted above an example of the data available may include SaaS or cloud computing providers meeting or exceeding real business SLAs in uptime and performance. Additionally the data may be related to a user rating system that provides the users of the social network a unique place to review rate and research SaaS providers and their service levels.

The social network function also offers the ability of a user to provide data regarding their use or experience with an SaaS application or cloud computing service. Accordingly in steps it is determined if the user wishes to store data related to the selected sub category and if so in step the data is stored. In step if the user does not wish to store data related to the selected sub category then the process ends in step . However in step it is determined if the user wants to make another selection of a category of interest and if so another selection can be made as in step . However if no additional selection is to be made in step then the process ends at step .

The application exchange function of the system allows external developers to utilize a public application software development kit to access and utilize databases and infrastructure to perform the primary functions of the system . The software development kit SDK contains all methods needed to interface with the system APIs. With the SDK format developers are able to provide objects attributes and operational data that will allow interaction with selected SaaS applications or cloud computing services. The user defined code submissions are contributed to the system via for example an interactive application storefront. Additionally the application storefront allows registered users of the system to select register unregister and rate all the available user defined code submissions.

As seen in the application exchange function starts at step when a user requests a connection to the common connection and database framework of the system via the public network . The system displays the dashboard via the internet based portal and the application exchange function is initiated in step by a selection of graphical element related to the application exchange function within the dashboard . In step a list of categories of services available is displayed and the user is queried with regard to the selection of a category. In step it is determined if a selection of a category is complete and if not the user is queried again with regard to making a selection. In step if the selection of the category is complete the user is presented with a list of sub categories of the selected category selected and queried as to a sub category to be selected. In step the user selects a sub category via the dashboard .

In step it is determined if the selection of a sub category is complete and if not the user is queried again with regard to the selection of a subcategory. In step if a selection of sub category is complete then in steps and the user is provided access to and the ability make a selection of the data available for the subcategory selected. As noted above the data may relate to objects attributes and operational data that will allow interaction with selected SaaS applications or cloud computing services. In step the user can initiate the application exchange by for example storing the data that will allow interaction with selected SaaS applications or cloud computing services.

The application exchange function also offers the ability of a user to contribute data to the system wherein the data may relate to objects attributes and operational data that will allow interaction with selected SaaS applications or cloud computing services. Accordingly in steps it is determined if the user wishes to store data related to the selected sub category and if so in step the data is stored. In step if the user does not wish to store data related to the selected sub category then it is determined if the user wants to make another selection of a category of interest n step . If the user wishes to make another selection then another selection can be made as in step . However if no additional selection is to be made then the process ends at step .

Additionally the secondary function offered through the system is also very beneficial to the user of the application with respect to business compliance and governance. Operational and Security log information can be extracted from an SaaS application via the user defined code submission and stored centrally within the applications logs database . The data contained within this database can then be queried and reported in various formats. This data is also able to be sorted and filtered by user date time application event type and severity type. By gathering and correlating all this data into a central repository the user of the application can create reports used for testing evidence for audits such as SOX GLB PCI HIPAA and other industry specific data and information security compliance regulations. Such data can also be used to produce activity reports for a single user or a group of users across all managed and monitored SaaS applications or cloud computing services.

In step the user makes a selection of the service to be searched. In step it is determined if a selection of a service is completed and if not the user is queried again with regard to making a selection. In step if the selection of a service is completed then in step the user is presented with a list of objects and object attributes related to the service selected. In step it is determined if the user would like to access the monitoring function of the system with regard to the object or object attributes listed. The monitoring function available to the user is similar to that discussed with reference to and therefore will not be repeated here.

In step if it is determined that the user does not wish to access the monitoring function then in step it is determined if the user would like to access the managing function of the system with regard to the object or object attributes listed. The managing function available to the user is similar to that discussed with reference to and therefore will not be repeated here. In step if it is determined that the user does not wish to access the managing function with regard to the objects and object attributes listed then in step it is determined if the user would like to select another service to be search and if so then another service is selected as in step . In step if it is determined that another service will not be selected then in step the process ends.

The memory can be non transitory computer readable storage medium used to store executable instructions or computer program thereon. The memory may include a read only memory ROM random access memory RAM programmable read only memory PROM erasable programmable read only memory EPROM a smart card a subscriber identity module SIM or any other medium from which a computing device can read executable instructions or a computer program. The term computer program is intended to encompass an executable program that exists permanently or temporarily on any computer readable storage medium as described above. The computer program is also intended to include an algorithm made up of executable instructions stored in the memory that are executable by the processor which may be facilitated by one or more of the application programs .

The user interface allows for interaction between a user and the monitoring and management apparatus . The user interface includes the Internet based front end portal wherein the portal includes the dashboard that acts as a container for all other user interface elements or widgets for initiated functions of the system . The communication interface provides for two way data communications to and from the monitoring and management apparatus .

The application programs may include but are not limited to an operating system or any special computer program that manages the relationship between application software and any suitable variety of hardware that helps to make up a computer system or computing environment of the monitoring and management apparatus . General communication between the components in monitoring and management apparatus is provided via the bus .

Additionally the monitoring managing social networking connecting and searching functions as described with reference to can all be performed by the application programs or by programs or algorithms that are stored for example in the memory of the monitoring and managing apparatus and executed by the processor . The application programs also include the user defined code submissions that allows data communications via the dashboard of portal and to the SaaS applications or cloud computing services via the Internet . As noted with reference to the user defined code submissions allows the monitoring and managing apparatus to push data to and pull data from the SaaS applications or cloud computing services based on an activity initialed from the dashboard of the portal or at periodic intervals. Additionally the widgets also contain links and or shortcuts to other functions available through the portable .

The communication interface may also include a digital subscriber line DSL card or modem an integrated services digital network ISDN card a cable modem or a telephone modem to provide a data communication connection to a corresponding type of telephone line. As another example communication interface may be a local area network LAN card e.g. for Ethernet or an Asynchronous Transfer Model ATM network to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN.

Further the communication interface may also include peripheral interface devices such as a Universal Serial Bus USB interface a Personal Computer Memory Card International Association PCMCIA interface and the like. The communication interface also allows the exchange of information across one or more wireless communication networks. Such networks may include cellular or short range such as IEEE 802.11 wireless local area networks WLANS . And the exchange of information may involve the transmission of radio frequency RF signals through an antenna not shown . The communication interface also includes the data access layers as described with reference to that allow data access between the monitoring and managing apparatus and the databases and and between the user defined code submissions and the SaaS applications or cloud computing services.

The APIs of the monitoring and managing apparatus include all the code logic functions and parameters for brokering and securing communications with the user defined code submission and the SaaS applications or cloud computing services as described with reference to .

For easy of explanation the internet based portal dashboard user defined code submissions data access layers and API described with reference to are contained within the computer architecture of the monitoring and managing apparatus of . The above elements may be an application program or a program stored in the memory and executed by the processor for performing the functions described with reference to this figure as well as . That is the monitoring and managing apparatus can be part of the system described with reference to . Accordingly the detailed operation of the above elements are the same as that already described with reference to and thus will not be repeated here.

From the description provided herein those skilled in the art are readily able to combine software created as described with the appropriate general purpose or special purpose computer hardware for carrying out the features of the invention.

Additionally it should be understood that various changes and modifications to the presently preferred embodiments described herein will be apparent to those skilled in the art. Such changes and modifications can be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the present subject matter and without diminishing its intended advantages. It is therefore intended that such changes and modifications be covered by the appended claim.

