---

title: Retrograde cardioplegia delivery catheter and method for inducing cardioplegic arrest
abstract: A retrograde delivery catheter includes at its distal end an expandable member configured to at least partially occlude the coronary sinus of a patient's heart, and has a length and variable stiffness that allows the distal end to be selectively articulated so as to be positioned in the coronary sinus. The delivery catheter has a triple lumen construction with a primary lumen extending between the proximal and distal ends and configured to allow a cardioplegic fluid to be delivered to the coronary sinus. A second lumen provides for balloon inflation while a third lumen allows monitoring of a pressure within the coronary sinus. A torque may be applied and a reinforcement member within the delivery catheter provides improved torque transmission along the length of the catheter.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09314587&OS=09314587&RS=09314587
owner: Edwards Lifesciences Corporation
number: 09314587
owner_city: Irvine
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120418
---
This invention relates generally to devices and techniques for performing cardiac procedures and particularly a catheter system and methods for inducing cardioplegic arrest to facilitate the performance of cardiac procedures.

Known techniques for performing major surgeries such as coronary artery bypass grafting and heart valve repair and replacement have generally required open access to the thoracic cavity through a large open wound known as a thoracotomy. Typically the sternum is cut longitudinally i.e. a median sternotomy providing access between opposing halves of the anterior portion of the rib cage to the heart and other thoracic vessels and organs. An alternate method of entering the chest is via a lateral thoracotomy in which an incision typically 10 cm to 20 cm in length is made between two ribs. A portion of one or more ribs may be permanently removed to optimize access.

In procedures requiring a median sternotomy or other type of thoracotomy the ascending aorta is readily accessible for placement of an external cross clamp and for introduction of a cardioplegic fluid delivery cannula and venting cannula through the aortic wall. However such surgery often entails weeks of hospitalization and months of recuperation time in addition to the pain and trauma suffered by the patient. Moreover while the average mortality rate associated with this type of procedure is about two to fifteen percent for first time surgery mortality and morbidity are significantly increased for reoperation. Further significant complications may result from such procedures. For example application of an external cross clamp to a calcified or atheromatous aorta may cause the release of emboli into the brachiocephalic carotid or subclavian arteries with serious consequences such as strokes.

A less invasive surgical approach is preferred as an alternative to open chest surgery. During a minimally invasive surgical procedure a surgeon may access a body lumen such as the femoral artery or jugular and extend one or more elements through the vasculature of the patient so as to access a location remote from the access window. Devices that may be extended through the access window and to a location of the surgical procedure include catheters stents guidewires or other surgical devices that may be inserted through such an access window for a procedure remote from the access window itself. Thus a variety of surgical procedures may be performed within the cavities of the body particularly including minimally invasive and less invasive surgical procedures in which surgical instruments are introduced through an access window and then extended through body lumens to a desired location.

Methods and devices are therefore needed for isolating the heart and coronary arteries from the remainder of the arterial system arresting cardiac function and establishing cardiopulmonary bypass without the open chest access provided by a median sternotomy or other type of thoracotomy. In particular methods and devices are needed which facilitate the delivery of retrograde cardioplegia sufficiently to allow the heart to be placed under cardioplegic arrest with full cardiopulmonary bypass without requiring open chest access to the heart and without requiring an incision or puncture in the aorta in the pulmonary artery or in the heart wall. Embodiments of the present disclosure satisfy these and other needs.

The present disclosure is directed to a device and method relating to a retrograde cardioplegia delivery catheter. More particularly embodiments herein relate to a catheter and methods and systems in which it is used particularly related to performing cardiac procedures in which the catheter can be used to occlude all or a portion of the coronary sinus.

A retrograde cardioplegia delivery catheter is described herein. An example retrograde delivery catheter may be advanced into a coronary sinus of a patient s heart for retrograde delivery of a fluid. Exemplary delivery catheters may include an elongated shaft having a proximal end and a distal end with the elongated shaft having sufficient length and flexibility so that the proximal end may extend intraluminally through a patient s peripheral veins when the distal end is positioned in the coronary sinus. The elongated shaft can include multiple layers including at least an outer shell and an interior reinforcement member as well as at least two lumens within the shaft. An expandable member is proximate the distal end of the shaft and may be used to at least partially occlude the patient s coronary sinus. The expandable member may further be in fluid communication with at least one of the at least two lumens within the elongated shaft. An outlet port is positioned in communication with a delivery lumen of the at least two lumens and adapted to deliver a fluid to a location distal to the expandable member.

In some embodiments a shaft may be an elongated shaft having multiple sections of differing durometer. The shaft may further in some embodiments be a multi lumen extrusion. Locations of where durometer changes may correspond to inflection points during selective articulation of the elongated shaft.

The reinforcement member is optionally a braided tube. In some embodiments the reinforcement member may be made of a metal or another material. A material of the reinforcement member may have higher echogenicity and or radiopacity relative to a material forming an outer shell of a shaft. An interior reinforcement member may also surround a liner of a cardioplegia fluid input.

In another embodiment a retrograde delivery catheter for retrograde delivery of a fluid into a coronary sinus includes a flexible elongated shaft having a proximal end and a distal end the shaft having sufficient length and flexibility so that the proximal end may extend intraluminally through a patient such that when the proximal end is external to the patient the distal end is positioned in the coronary sinus of the patient. The flexible elongated shaft may define at least two lumens extending from about the proximal end toward the distal end. An atraumatic distal tip can be included at about the distal end of the flexible elongated shaft. An expandable member may be positioned at least proximate the distal end of the flexible elongated shaft and the expandable member may be configured to at least partially occlude the patient s coronary sinus. A user interface may be coupled to the flexible elongated shaft with the user interface being configured to control selective articulation of the distal end of the flexible elongated shaft. Such articulation may include by the user interface articulation that includes at least one pre set articulation position of the distal end of the flexible elongated shaft.

The flexible shaft may have a predefined shape that includes an initial bend at the distal end and or all positions of the distal end corresponding to the selective articulation of the distal end may be curved. The predetermined positions may include an engagement position that can correspond to a stressed state of the user interface. The predetermined positions may additionally or alternatively include insertion or troubleshooting positions of the user interface. At any one or more selected articulations of the distal end of the shaft the shaft may define multiple sections with differing curvature radii longitudinal lengths and or durometer.

In at least some embodiments a retrograde delivery catheter includes a pull wire. A pull wire or other articulation mechanism may be attached to the user interface and to or near the distal end of a shaft. The pull wire may extend through a primary or other lumen within the shaft. A reinforcement member of the shaft may also surround the pull wire in some embodiments.

To control articulation of the distal end of the shaft a user interface may include a multi position switch. The switch may be linked to a pull wire or other articulation control member. Some positions may be self sustaining so as to maintain a desired position of the distal end of the shaft even absent continued user pressure. Other positions may not be self sustaining such that release of user pressure causes the switch to revert to a particular self sustaining position. Different switch positions may correspond to an insertion position engagement position and or troubleshooting position of the distal end of the shaft. During articulation the shaft and the distal end of the shaft may remain in plane.

In accordance with another example embodiment a method is provided for at least partially occluding a coronary sinus of a patient and delivering retrograde cardioplegia to the coronary sinus. In the method a retrograde delivery catheter can be used. The catheter may include a flexible shaft having a proximal end and a distal end the distal end of the shaft being configured to be selectively articulated between at least two pre determined curve profiles the shaft defining at least a fluid delivery lumen and an inflation lumen. An expandable member may be positioned at least proximate the distal end of the flexible shaft the expandable member being inflatable to at least partially occlude the coronary sinus. A user interface may be included and configured to selectively articulate the distal end of the shaft between at least two pre determined curve profiles. A distal end of the catheter may be introduced into a peripheral vein of a patient while the distal end of the flexible shaft has a first of at least two pre determined curve profiles. The distal end may be located in the coronary sinus of the patient. Such locating can include selectively articulating the distal end of the flexible shaft to a second of the at least two predetermined curve profiles and placing the expandable member within the coronary sinus while the proximal end of the shaft remains external to the patient. Fluids can be passed through inflation and delivery lumens to inflate the expandable member and pass into the coronary sinus respectively. In some aspects a pressure monitoring lumen may be included in the shaft and the pressure within the coronary sinus can be measured or otherwise monitored at or near the expandable member. Locating the distal end of the catheter may also include articulating the distal end to a position corresponding to a curve profile at which the user interface has a switch that is not self sustaining. Additionally or alternatively a catheter shaft may be concentric relative to an expandable member. Locating the distal end of the retrograde delivery catheter in the coronary sinus of the patient can include limiting eccentricity of the flexible shaft to less than about fifteen percent eccentricity.

These and other advantages of the invention will become more apparent from the following detailed description of the invention when taken in conjunction with the accompanying exemplary drawings. These and other aspects and features of the present invention will become more fully apparent from the following description and appended claims.

Exemplary embodiments of the present disclosure are directed to accessing a body lumen in order to perform a medical procedure. Reference is made to which schematically illustrates the retrograde cardioplegia delivery catheter of the present disclosure.

The retrograde cardioplegia delivery catheter is disposed at least partially within the patient s venous system. In some embodiments the retrograde cardioplegia delivery catheter may also be configured to occlude a portion of the patient s vasculature and monitor coronary sinus pressure. In at least one embodiment the catheter extends within the patient s venous system and has a distal section extending into the coronary sinus see to deliver a fluid containing cardioplegic agents. The cardioplegic agents can be delivered to the myocardium in a retrograde manner through the patient s coronary venous system and may be configured to substantially paralyze the myocardium. The cardioplegic agents may also be profused throughout the heart muscle to prevent mild cardio eschemia.

An exemplary catheter which may also be seen in can be introduced into the patient s venous system through the right internal jugular vein and advanced through the right atrium and into the coronary sinus through a coronary sinus discharge opening in the right atrium. Optionally the retrograde delivery catheter includes a flexible shaft having a distal end having a delivery lumen extending therein. The shaft may have a length sufficient to allow the distal end to be positioned within the coronary sinus while a proximal end of the shaft extends out of the patient such as through a puncture cut down or other access site. As shown in the access site may access the internal jugular vein of the patient.

The shaft can be flexible so as to allow the catheter to navigate through the patient s vasculature with little difficulty and preferably in a manner that is suitably atraumatic. A distal end of the shaft may also include an expandable member which may be a balloon configured to expand and occlude the coronary sinus . A soft atraumatic tip may also be located at the distal end of the shaft . For instance the soft distal end may be made of a material having mechanical properties sufficient to reduce a risk of trauma through the vasculature the shaft passes through including the coronary sinus .

In some embodiments the shaft is made of a biocompatible material. Radiopaque markers may also be applied to the shaft including at or near the distal end or a filler such as barium sulfate may be added to the shaft . Such markers or the barium sulfate may facilitate visual inspection or placement of the catheter . Any of various visualization measures may be utilized. For instance angioscopic imaging fluoroscopy or transesophageal echocardiography may be utilized. In some instances intravascular ultrasound may be used. For instance intravascular ultrasound may be used where passed through a delivery catheter or passed via the venous system through the intra atrial septum across the mitral valve and into the left ventricle.

A liquid containing a cardioplegic agent e.g. an aqueous saline solution a potassium chloride etc. may be introduced at a proximal end of the delivery catheter . The agent may be introduced with sufficient pressure to force the cardioplegic agent through the coronary sinus through the capillary beds not shown in the patient s myocardium through the coronary arteries not shown and ostia not shown . The retrograde cardioplegia delivery catheter can be percutaneously inserted by a suitable means via a introducer sheath e.g. the Seldinger technique into the right interior jugular vein and advanced into the right atrium and guided through the discharge opening into the coronary sinus .

The expandable member see on the distal extremity of the catheter may be expanded to occlude the coronary sinus and thereby prevent or reduce fluid loss through the discharge opening into the right atrium . A liquid containing a cardioplegic agent such as potassium chloride may be directed through the catheter into the coronary sinus and the pressure and volumetric flow rate of the cardioplegic fluid within the coronary sinus can be maintained sufficiently high e.g. at least about 100 ml min at about 40 mm Hg so that the cardioplegic fluid will pass through the coronary veins crossing the capillary beds to the coronary arteries and out the ostia.

Cardioplegic fluid may be delivered through the delivery catheter at a flow rate sufficient to maintain cardioplegic arrest by periodic or continual infusions. However cardioplegic solution pressure within the coronary sinus may be maintained at a level that avoids or reduces the risk of tissue damage. For instance the cardioplegic solution pressure may be less than about 50 mm Hg to avoid tissue damage. An example blood to agent volumetric ratio is about four parts blood to one part KCl solution. The cardioplegic solution can also be within a desired temperature range. For instance the cardioplegic solution may be cooled to a temperature of between about 4 C. and about 10 C. Such cooling may result in a fluid having a viscosity in excess of about 3.0 centipoise and sometimes in the range of about 6 to about 8 centipoise. The cardioplegic fluid may then be directed through a port of the delivery catheter and infused at a desired flow rate e.g. at least about 100 ml min or at least about 200 ml min. in order to maintain cardioplegic arrest. The pressure at which the fluid is pumped or delivered through the delivery catheter the pump pressure may vary and in some embodiments is kept around about 350 mmHg so as to avoid excessive hemolysis of the blood component of the fluid and or damage to the pump. Cardioplegic fluid flow through delivery catheter may be maintained on a periodic basis e.g. about every 15 30 minutes for 2 4 minutes so long as the heart remains under cardioplegic arrest.

It will be understood to those of skill in the art in view of the disclosure herein that cardioplegic fluid may be delivered at lower flow rates for longer periods or more frequently and potentially continuously to obtain a same desired total volume of delivered fluid. Delivery at lower flow rates might allow the use of a delivery catheter having a delivery lumen with a reduced cross sectional area compared to a delivery catheter having higher flow rates. For instance a catheter for low flow rates may have a minimum area of less than about 4 mm. In other cases such as where cardioplegic fluid is delivered less often and or the time required to deliver the desired volume of cardioplegic fluid is minimized a delivery lumen cross sectional area may be larger while continuing to maintain the overall profile of the catheter small enough to allow transluminal positioning from a peripheral vein.

The present disclosure may also be utilized to induce cardioplegic arrest in conventional open surgical procedures as a substitute for conventional cardioplegia cannula introduced directly into the heart and or aorta.

Turning now to an exemplary embodiment of a delivery catheter and more particularly a retrograde cardioplegia delivery catheter are illustrated and described in additional detail. In the illustrated embodiment the delivery catheter includes a catheter shaft that can be inserted into a patient. To facilitate insertion of the shaft a user interface may be gripped or otherwise manipulated by a surgeon or other user. In accordance with some embodiments disclosed herein the user interface may used to position the shaft or a distal tip of the shaft at a desired location. For instance the user interface may be an ergonomic handle that facilitates insertion of the distal tip within the coronary sinus of a patient. The distal portion of the device is optionally articulating in which articulation is at least partially controlled by the ergonomic user interface . Thus in some embodiments including those described hereafter the catheter may be an articulating catheter in which at least a portion of the shaft can be selectively moved or have its shaped selectively changed.

An expandable member is also included in this embodiment and may be positioned near the distal tip . The expandable member may be selectively expanded or contracted as desired by the surgeon. For instance the expandable member may be in a retracted state while the distal tip travels to a desired location within a patient. Upon reaching a desired location such as a coronary sinus the expandable member may be expanded to fully or partially occlude the coronary sinus.

As best illustrated in the delivery catheter can include the shaft and the shaft may include one or more internal lumens therein. In the illustrated embodiment for instance the shaft includes three lumens . Each lumen may be used to receive a different fluid and or to fulfill a different purpose in the use of the delivery catheter . For instance a primary lumen may receive a cardioplegic fluid therein. A second lumen may receive a fluid for inflating the expandable member while a third lumen may be used to monitor a pressure in a patient s vasculature such as in the coronary sinus.

The outer shell may be formed of any suitable material and using any number of different manufacturing processes. Suitable polymeric materials for the hollow liner or coating may include for instance ethylene tetrafluoro ethylene ETFE or polytetraflourothylene PTFE . In another embodiment the outer shell is formed from a biocompatible material such as Pebax . An outer shell produced from Pebax may for instance be extruded and can even be extruded to define multiple lumens. As described in more detail hereafter the outer shell may in some cases have a variable durometer along its length. For instance the durometer may be in a range between about 20 to about 80 Shore D with different portions of the outer shell having different durometer.

Further as noted previously the shaft may be structured to be radiopaque so as to facilitate visualization by fluoroscopy an angiogram or other suitable visual technology. Echocardiography may also be used. To facilitate visualization and or echogenicity the outer shell may include in at least one embodiment materials markers additives or other elements that facilitate visualization by x ray or ultrasound. By way of illustration the outer shell can include in at least one embodiment an additive such as barium sulfate. When the outer shell is extruded or otherwise formed the barium sulfate or other additive can be concentrated within the outer shell . A concentration between fifteen and thirty percent may for instance allow the shaft to be highly visible during a fluoroscopic procedure.

The primary lumen defined by the exterior material may itself facilitate transfer of cardioplegic fluid or another fluid however in other embodiments the primary lumen may facilitate other or additional aspects. For instance in the primary lumen includes multiple components therein. In particular in the primary lumen includes multiple layers in a laminate manner. The multiple layers may be separately or integrally combined.

One example of a component for use with the shaft may be a hollow liner . The liner may be sized to fit within the primary lumen of the outer shell and can have any number of purposes. In this embodiment the liner may be substantially impermeable. Consequently a cardioplegic or other fluid may be passed from a fluid source and through the liner . The fluid may flow into the patient and to a desired location or out of the patient. Where a fluid source is exterior to the patient a desired location for the fluid may include the coronary sinus and the cardioplegic fluid may be retrograde cardioplegia.

The liner is optionally reinforced. For instance the liner may have a reinforcement structure around or proximate at least a portion thereof. The reinforcement structure can also be positioned within the primary lumen defined by the exterior material of the shaft . In the reinforcement member takes the form of a braided shroud that extends around an exterior surface of the liner although in other embodiments the reinforcement structure can take any number of other desired forms. For instance the reinforcement structure may alternatively be a solid shroud a set of longitudinal wires or other component. Regardless of the type of structure the reinforcement structure may in some cases provide added stiffness to the shaft . By way of example the reinforcement structure may have a column stiffness of greater than that of the liner and or the outer shell or which when added to the outer shell and or the liner increases the column stiffness of the shaft . In some embodiments the reinforcement structure may prevent or reduce the chance that as the shaft flexes the liner and or the primary lumen is pinched closed to restrict fluid flow.

The reinforcement member may further promote desired torsional or other characteristics of the shaft . For instance the shaft may be guided through a patient s vasculature to a desired position and as described hereafter may be articulated so as to facilitate passage into a particular vein artery or other body lumen. The shaft may be articulated by for instance rotating the user interface . Due to the reinforcement member the torque transmission through the shaft may be improved as compared to a shaft made of a single polymer material. The shaft may thus respond to desired torque while minimizing twisting of the shaft beyond a torque applied. Moreover as the tip of the shaft is articulated such as by using a switch or other mechanism as described herein certain materials or components may tend to curl out of plane. In particular as a tip is articulated the shaft may be held along an axis and it is desired to articulate while remaining in plane. Such a characteristic may be known as pig tailing. When a device pig tails the tip may curve out of plane like a pig tail resulting in the tip of the shaft articulating and moving unpredictably and causing the surgeon to spend additional time attempting to fit the tip of the shaft into a desired location. Alternatively when the shaft behaves predictably such as by remaining in plane during articulation the surgeon may reliably orient the shaft and articulate the tip of the shaft to pass into a desired lumen without resorting to trial and error or other time consuming processes.

While the reinforcement member may thus be desirable for column stiffness and or torque related purposes in other embodiments the reinforcement structure may be eliminated entirely may be repositioned e.g. to be external to the primary lumen or otherwise configured. The reinforcement member may also be formed of any suitable material. For instance in one embodiment the reinforcement member is stainless steel although the reinforcement member may be formed of any other metal alloy composite organic material polymer or other material or any combination of the foregoing. Furthermore in some embodiments the reinforcement member may additionally or alternatively facilitate visualization of the shaft . For instance all or a portion of the reinforcement member may be radiopaque or echogenic to promote higher visibility of the shaft . By way of illustration where the reinforcement member includes a metal the shaft may have higher echogenicity than a similar device comprising only a plastic material.

In at least one embodiment the reinforcement member may be integrally connected to one or more other components within the shaft . For instance the outer shell may be heated or compressed. Where the reinforcement member has a braided construction or another configuration in which openings are formed the outer shell may be at least partially melted such that the outer shell melts into and is bonded with the braided reinforcement member .

Also within the primary lumen of is a pull wire . As briefly noted above the shaft can in some embodiments be configured to be selectively moved or articulated. Articulation of the shaft can facilitate locating of the shaft or a tip of the shaft at a desired location as well as retraction of the shaft when a procedure is complete. The pull wire may be used in some embodiments to facilitate such articulation of all or a portion of the shaft . For instance a distal portion of the shaft may be articulated to facilitate positioning of a distal tip of a shaft into a coronary sinus or other desired location and allow an occluding member such as the expandable member depicted in to fully or partially occlude the coronary sinus. Positioning of the distal tip in such a manner may also allow monitoring of a pressure within the patient and or delivery of a cardioplegic fluid into the coronary sinus.

In general the pull wire may extend through all or a portion of the length of the shaft . In the illustrated embodiment the pull wire is positioned within the primary lumen of the shaft . The pull wire can extend to the distal tip of the shaft . Consequently as a longitudinally directed force is applied to the pull wire the pull wire potentially moves within the primary lumen or otherwise allows the shaft to articulate to accommodate the applied force.

The pull wire is illustrated in as also being located within or in contact with the reinforcement member and or as having a jacket or coating thereon. Such structure should however be understood to be merely exemplary. In other embodiments for instance the liner exterior to the reinforcement member or even in a lumen separate from the primary lumen . According to at least one aspect the pull wire is placed within the reinforcement member and or within the coating allowing the reinforcement member and or the coating to act as a lumen allowing decreased friction movement for the pull wire . In addition the liner material could be a fluoropolymer ETFE or PTFE to provide for this decreased friction. It is desired that the pull wire moves easily within the liner so the device responds quickly to the user input at the handle. The pull wire and or coating can be made of any number of materials or have a variety of other characteristics. For instance the pull wire may be stainless steel or another metal alloy composite ceramic polymer or other material or any combination thereof. Moreover the pull wire may be expected to have longitudinal forces applied. The pull wire may have strength characteristics to largely reduce a risk of plastic deformation when expected forces are applied however in other embodiments the pull wire may be expected to plastically deform and may be a ductile material that plastically deforms but with a reduced risk of fracture. While the pull wire of is illustrated as having a generally rectangular cross sectional shape it should also be appreciated that the pull wire can be circular elliptical or have any other suitable shape.

With continued reference to the various lumens within the shaft may each be in fluid communication with one or more desired fluids. As shown in for instance such fluid communication may be facilitated by a hub and or a set of arms . More particularly in this embodiment a proximal end of the shaft is connected to a hub . The hub may include multiple extensions and each extension can be routed to one or more of the lumens within the shaft . For instance in the illustrated embodiment the hub includes three extensions. A first extension may extend from or otherwise be connected to the hub . The first extension may be used to among other things deliver cardioplegic fluid. In such an embodiment a source of cardioplegic fluid may be connected to the first extension and or a stopcock or other valve disposed on or connected to the first extension . A pump or other device may cause a fluid to flow at a desired rate and or pressure while the stopcock can further restrict or isolate fluid flow through the first extension and into the patient. As the fluid flows the fluid may pass through the extension and into a lumen e.g. primary lumen of of the shaft .

The second and third extensions may also be in communication with the second and third lumens respectively of the shaft as shown in . The second extension may be configured to receive a liquid or gas directed to the expandable member at the distal end of the shaft . Consequently the second extension and or a stopcock or other valve thereon may be connected to an inflation device not shown . The inflation device may be used to force a fluid into the second lumen . At the distal end of the shaft the second lumen may be in fluid communication with the expandable member which can be a balloon. The fluid may flow through the second lumen and into the balloon which is caused to inflate. The balloon can inflate fully or partially and can fully or partially occlude a lumen such as a coronary sinus of a patient. In other embodiments the expandable member may be something other than a balloon. For instance the expandable member may include a mechanically expanding mechanism. In such a mechanism a series of flexible beams may be mounted longitudinally and be deflected outward by exerting a compressive force on the beams using a pull wire or other mechanism. A substantially impermeable membrane may be mounted to the beams to provide sufficient occlusion properties.

Where the expandable member is a balloon or other similar device the degree of occlusion may be controlled by among other things the amount of fluid passed through the second lumen and into the expandable member . For instance in one embodiment between one and three cubic centimeters of fluid may be used to inflate a balloon or other suitable expandable member . In some embodiments the stopcock may include or have attached thereto a pressure relief valve to reduce the risk that overinflation of the expandable member . For instance the pressure relief valve may open and receive fluid from the second lumen when the expandable member exceeds a maximum desired size and pressure builds within the expandable member .

It should be appreciated by one skilled in the art in view of the disclosure herein that the degree of occlusion may be varied based on various factors. For instance where the expandable member is within a coronary sinus it may be desirable that only partial occlusion occur. More particularly the coronary sinus may be rather fragile. Accordingly if the expandable member is over inflated the expandable member may cause the coronary sinus wall to rupture or tear thereby necessitating emergency corrective procedures. To guard against such an outcome the expandable member may be only partially inflated so as to not exert a large force on the interior surfaces of the coronary sinus. Such use may result in partial occlusion where fluid is able to pass around the expandable member . Further because the expandable member may not grip tightly against the coronary sinus or other body lumen the expandable member may be able to dynamically move within the coronary sinus or other lumen. Such movement may not be problematic or if undesired may be counteracted by the shaft of the present invention which can have sufficient column stiffness to effectively stabilize the position of the expandable member without securing the expandable member directly to the lumen wall.

The third extension may connect to a pressure monitoring system not shown or other device and may do so directly or through a stopcock or other valve. For instance in one embodiment the third extension may facilitate measuring or other monitoring of a pressure within the coronary sinus or other body lumen of a patient. For instance the third lumen may extend through the shaft and terminate at or near the distal tip . At or near the distal tip the third lumen may be opened so as to be in fluid communication with a fluid outside the shaft. Based on the location of the termination of the third lumen a pressure monitoring system may measure pressure on the proximal or distal side of the balloon or other expandable member . Where the expandable member is within the coronary sinus the pressure monitoring system may therefore obtain fluid from the site or pass fluid into the site in a manner that measures the coronary sinus pressure. The stopcock may also include or be attached to a pressure relief valve similar to that described above with respect to stopcock . If the cardioplegic fluid pressure exceeds a predetermined level e.g. 40 50 mm Hg of mercury the pressure relief valve can open and release the fluid pressure. By releasing the fluid at or above a predetermined pressure the occurrence of hemolysis in a blood component of cardioplegic fluid can be avoided or the coronary sinus can be protected from excessive pressure and possible rupture or other damage.

The shaft of the delivery device can have a length sufficient for locating the expandable member and or the distal tip in desired locations. In locating the expandable member and or the distal tip the user interface can remain at least partially outside of the patient and can be manipulated by a surgeon or other operator. In one embodiment the shaft may be at least about fifty centimeters long. In other embodiments the shaft may be at least about sixty centimeters long as measured from the distal tip to the proximal end of the shaft . In still other embodiments the shaft may be longer than about sixty centimeters or shorter than about fifty centimeters.

With continued reference to and as noted previously above a pull wire may extend through or otherwise be associated with the shaft . The pull wire or another suitable mechanism may be used to selectively articulate at least the distal portion of the shaft . For instance by pulling the wire a user may cause at least the distal end of the shaft to bend or flex in a desired manner. As discussed above flexure of the distal end of the shaft may allow a surgeon to efficiently locate the expandable member and or the tip at a desired location within a patient.

In one embodiment the shaft may be at least partially flexible and in still other embodiments may be a multiple durometer shaft. As discussed above the durometer of the shaft may vary along its length. Consequently the hardness of the shaft may vary from one location to the next. By way of illustration the shaft of is illustrated as having three segments each of which has a different durometer. As the shaft flexes the extent of flexure may vary in any or all of the three segments. Locations where durometer changes or transitions occur may define inflection points at which a degree or extent of flexure changes.

As shown in for instance the exemplary shaft has two inflection points . More particularly three segments can be formed and the first inflection point may be located about at a location where the durometer changes between the first and second segments . The second inflection point may be located about at a location where the durometer changes between the second and third segments of the shaft . As a pull wire is pulled or another mechanism used one or more of the three segments may flex and deflect. The third segment of is shown as having the largest deflection while the first segment may have the least deflection.

As noted above the degree of flexure or deflection of the three segments may vary. In one example embodiment for instance the third segment may bend to have a curve radius of between about five and about eight centimeters and or deflection at the distal end of the third segment may be between about eighty five and about ninety five degrees. For instance the curve radius of the third segment may be about 6.4 centimeters and deflection from horizontal about eighty nine degrees e.g. along a longitudinal axis of the first segment . The second segment may bend to have a curve radius between about 2.5 centimeters and about 3.5 centimeters and or deflection at the distal end of the third segment may be between about ten and about twenty degrees relative to the longitudinal axis of the first segment . For instance the curve radius of the second segment may be between eighteen and about forty centimeters. For instance the curve radius of the second segment may be about twenty nine centimeters and or the deflection from horizontal about fifteen degrees. The first segment may be flexible and bend however the first segment may have a bend radius much larger than the second segment or may be relatively unaffected by a force applied to a pull wire or other mechanism. In some embodiments the bend radius of the first segment varies along its length while the bend radii of the second and third segments are generally constant along the respective lengths thereof. In other embodiments the bend radii of the second and or third segments may vary along their lengths such as where bending follows an elliptical path.

The illustrated embodiment is merely one example of the manner in which the shaft may bend flex or deflect. In some embodiments flexure of any or all of the segments may be lesser or greater than the exemplary values given. For instance in one embodiment the illustrated curvature is exemplary of an engagement position in which the shaft generally follows a contour which approximates the curvature of the vasculature of the patient and or which facilitates locating the expandable member within the coronary sinus of a patient. The vasculature of any particular patient including the direction of the coronary sinus. Consequently the ideal articulation of the shaft may vary from patient to patient. For instance if less curvature is needed or desired the force on pull wire or other mechanism may be decreased whereas if a greater curvature or flexure is desired the force on the pull wire or other mechanism may be increased.

The force on the pull wire or other articulation mechanism may be only one factor that determines the degree of bending in the shaft . For instance the durometer and or length of each of the various segments may affect the degree of articulation or deflection of a particular segment of the shaft . By way of illustration an exemplary shaft may be approximately 58 centimeters long as measured between the hub and the distal tip . The first segment may be approximately 42.5 centimeters in length and have a durometer of approximately 72 Shore D. The second segment may be approximately 7.5 centimeters in length and have a durometer of approximately 55 Shore D. The third segment may be approximately 8 centimeters long and have a durometer of about 40 Shore D. In some embodiments the distal tip may be atraumatic. For instance the distal tip may have a durometer of approximately 25 Shore D so as to be sufficiently soft to reduce a risk of trauma to the coronary sinus or other location within a patient. The example lengths and durometer values above are merely exemplary. For instance the durometer and or length of any or all of the segments may be increased or decreased and such changes may affect the degree of deflection the radius of curvature or otherwise affect the manner in which a particular segment bends flexes or otherwise articulates.

In accordance with one example embodiment the articulation of the shaft is selectively controlled by a surgeon or other operator of the retrograde cardioplegia delivery catheter . For example with reference again to a user interface may be a handle used by the surgeon or clinician to selectively control articulation of the shaft . More particularly in some embodiments a multi position switch body may be used in this example embodiment to control articulation of the shaft including the distal tip .

The user interface of the present embodiment may be a handle or grip portion which a surgeon clinician or other operator of the retrograde cardioplegia delivery catheter can grasp. Using the grip the operator can direct the distal tip of the delivery catheter through the patient or fully or partially retract the delivery catheter . The user interface may also include the multi position switch body that may be used to change the shape or other configuration of the shaft .

To articulate the shaft in a desired manner a pull wire of the shaft may be attached to the switch body . For instance as best illustrated in the switch body may include a pin attached thereto. The pin may for instance be placed within a recess of the switch body however a pin or other attachment mechanism may be otherwise constructed. For instance the pin may alternatively be integrally formed with the switch body . By virtue of the pin being securely connected to the switch body and a proximal end of the pull wire as the switch translates rotates or otherwise moves the pin may also move. Where the pull wire is connected to the pin the proximal end of the pull wire may therefore also be moved a distance corresponding to the distance of movement undergone by the pin . Movement of the pull wire may place a force on the pull wire which force may be directed generally along a longitudinal length of the pull wire .

The switch body may be mounted within a housing . For instance the housing may define a recess or opening into which a switch pin is located. A corresponding recess or aperture may be formed at least partially through the switch body . The switch pin may be journaled or otherwise secured within the aperture in a manner that allows the switch body to rotate around the switch pin . The switch pin can thus act as a pivot point about which the switch body rotates.

The switch body includes in the embodiment shown in a switch which the user may use to rotate or otherwise move the switch body . For instance the user may place a thumb or finger on the switch and apply a downward and or lateral force that causes the switch to translate within a recess formed in the housing . As the switch body rotates the pin that is mounted within the switch body can also move at least partially around or relative to the switch pin . The pull wire which is attached to the pin may also move as a result of a force placed thereon.

In some embodiments the travel distance of the switch may correspond generally to the travel for the pull wire . For instance the switch and pull wire may move such that a one to one correspondence exists between movement of the switch and the distal tip of the shaft . By way of illustration moving the switch a distance of one half inch may also move the pull wire about one half inch. In other embodiments however there may be a ratio applied between the travel distance of the switch and the pull wire . For instance to change the sensitivity of the articulating tip of the shaft the pull wire may be geared up or down relative to the switch . By way of illustration in the switch rotates around the switch pin and has an arcuate travel path. The pin can also rotate around an arcuate path around the switch pin . The radius from the switch pin to the pin may however be different than the radius from the switch pin to the switch . As the travel distance is an arc length which is based on the radius of rotation the switch within the recess may travel a first distance and the pin and thus the pull wire can move a lesser amount. In this or another similar manner the sensitivity and or control of the device may be modified. More particularly in this embodiment better control may be obtained by allowing the switch to be moved less finely. In other embodiments the movement of the pull wire and switch can be related in other manners. For instance a cam surface roller or other mechanism may be used to adjust the motion of the pull wire relative to the switch .

As further shown in the housing of the user interface optionally includes a biasing member positioned therein. In this embodiment the biasing member is a spring and may be secured within a chamber of the housing although any suitable biasing member or mechanism may be used. The spring or other biasing member may engage a pawl and be configured to exert a biasing force thereon. The pawl may in turn engage the switch body .

In the illustrated embodiment the switch body has a proximal exterior surface that defines multiple ridges that can be engaged by the pawl . For instance a set of ridges may have grooves therebetween. As the surgeon or other operator moves the switch operator can overcome the biasing force of the biasing member . As a result the pawl may move over the ridges and settle into grooves therebetween. Due to the biasing force exerted by the biasing member the pawl may click into each groove on the switch body .

The ridges may also counteract the biasing force to at least some degree. For instance if an operator releases the switch while the pawl is within a groove between ridges the ridges may cause the pawl to remain substantially stationary. Indeed the ridges may also counteract additional biasing forces in some embodiments. For instance as shown in a second biasing member may act upon the switch body . The second biasing member may for instance be a torsion spring. In one embodiment the second biasing member exerts a biasing force on the switch body which biasing force tends to push or otherwise move the switch to the position illustrated in . At such a position the pawl may be located adjacent a proximal most one of the ridges . However as noted previously the ridges may also counteract the biasing force of the second biasing member . More particularly if an operator releases the switch while the pawl is between ridges the ridges may counteract the biasing force and tend to maintain the switch body at the position when released without reverting back to the initial position illustrated in .

In this manner the user interface may provide multiple different discrete positions at which the pull wire can be located even in the absence of the application of continued force by the operator to the switch . The particularly number of discrete positions may vary. For instance there may be a single discrete position or up to between three and fifteen positions such as may occur if there are up to fifteen ridges . Each discrete position may correspond to a discrete position of the pin and thus also the pull wire and the distal tip of the shaft . In other embodiments more or fewer discrete positions may be included or no discrete positions may be provided.

As further shown in the switch body of the illustrated embodiment may also include a region in which there are no ridges. More particularly a smooth region is provided on a periphery of the switch body and the pawl may move over such region. If the operator releases the switch while the pawl is being advanced along the smooth region there may be a lack of structures for the pawl to engage. As a result the second biasing member may cause the switch body to rotate and retreat. In some embodiments the switch body may retreat to a position at which the pawl again engages against one of the ridges .

As will be appreciated in view of the disclosure herein while the operator moves the switch such that the pawl engages the smooth region rather than the ridges the pin and pull wire may continue to move. However such elements may effectively slide between positions which results in movement in very small if not infinitely small increments. In some aspects to maintain the pull wire and thus the distal tip of the shaft at a corresponding position the operator may maintain pressure on the switch . Without such pressure the switch may revert to an intermediate state. Such reversion may be desirable in some aspects. For instance a troubleshooting position may be desirable while attempting to locate the distal tip in the coronary sinus. However when retracting the shaft from the patient a position of the distal tip that is fully articulated or which otherwise is articulated beyond the intermediate engagement position may have a higher likelihood of damaging the coronary sinus. Thus automatic retraction of the distal tip to the engagement position upon release of the switch can decrease a potential for operator error with the catheter .

In some embodiments an automatic retraction of the articulated distal tip may not be provided or may be combined with other features. For instance a tactile response may be provided so as to alert the surgeon or other operator as to the position of the distal tip . In one embodiment for instance a cam may be included. To articulate the distal tip the cam may rotate and at a point my push or move an element that presses against the hand of the operator. As a result the operator can be alerted as to whether the desired position is being exceeded and helping to alert operators that they may be overshooting a desired position of the distal tip .

In general may correspond to an initial position of the switch and may correspond generally to the position of the switch illustrated in . may correspond to an intermediate return position of the switch when released and when the pawl of had passed onto the smooth region . may correspond to an extended position at which the switch is fully rotated and or at which the distal tip is fully articulated.

More particularly and with reference to the pawl may engage a distal most ridge before the smooth region . In such position the pawl may be moved partially along the recess in the housing . This intermediate position may be referred to as an engagement position. Generally speaking the engagement position of the switch body and switch may correspond to a particular position of the shaft and distal tip in which the curvature of the shaft is intended to approximate a typical curvature to be expected in the average patient so as to position the distal tip of the shaft within the patient s coronary sinus. To reach the engagement position the distal tip may deflect between about eighty five to about ninety five degrees from horizontal. In some embodiments the engagement position corresponds to the position of the shaft and distal tip of .

An initial position of the switch body and switch e.g. when the pawl of is at a first ridge and or where the switch is at a distal end of the recess as shown in may be considered in some embodiments to be an insertion position. The insertion position may be configured for use where for instance the surgeon or other operator is inserting the shaft into the patient. As noted above one or more discrete positions optionally exist between the insertion and engagement positions. Such positions may be used during insertion of the shaft into a patient and or during locating of the distal tip into a desired location within the patient. At the insertion position the shaft may have a substantially straight configuration. Alternatively as shown in when the device is in the insertion position the distal end of the shaft may have predetermined flexure or deflection. Such a curvature may be used to among other things facilitate insertion of the shaft into an introducer sheath or other component as well as into the patient. The amount of predetermined flexure may also vary for instance while at the insertion position the distal tip of the shaft may have a deflection angle between about five and about twenty five degrees however the deflection angle may be greater or lesser in other embodiments.

In another aspect the curvature may provide a visual manner in which a surgeon can use the user interface and identify the plane in which the distal tip will bend when placed within a patient. A line may also be printed or otherwise provided along an exterior surface of the shaft to provide a visual indication of the orientation and or flexure direction of the distal tip . Additionally or alternatively the housing may facilitate determining the flexure plane. For instance the housing may be asymmetrical with an asymmetrical or other element aligned with the flexure plane.

If the switch is allowed to travel past the engagement position the switch and the shaft can enter into a troubleshooting position. illustrates a troubleshooting position where the switch is positioned at the proximal end of the recess and may correspond to a maximum articulation flexure or deflection of the distal tip of the shaft . Generally speaking if the surgeon is unable to place a distal tip within a desired location of the patient using the engagement position insertion position or any positions therebetween it may be that additional deflection at the distal tip is desired so as to match the position of the coronary sinus or other lumen of the patient. The surgeon may thus move the switch and the distal tip of the shaft into a troubleshooting position. Certain patients may for instance have a curvature to their vasculature that requires or benefits from a tighter curve than that provided at the engagement position. At the illustrated troubleshooting position the distal tip may bend up to about ninety to about one hundred fifteen degrees or even more. In other embodiments the shaft may be provided with less or more deflection. As noted previously the troubleshooting position may be used by the surgeon however if the switch is released the switch and the distal tip may revert automatically back to the engagement position described previously.

In one embodiment such as that illustrated in the shaft of the delivery catheter is provided with an expandable member that may be used to among other things partially or fully occlude a coronary sinus or other lumen within the body of a patient. In the illustrated embodiment the expandable member is shown in an expanded state in which a width or diameter of the expandable member is increased however it will be appreciated that the expandable member may also be retracted to a position at which the diameter or width is reduced.

The expandable member may include a balloon in some embodiments. For instance the balloon may be inflated to occlude the coronary sinus. Exemplary balloons may be formed from a polyurethane or other material and can be formed using a dip molding technique in which a mandrel is dipped in liquefied polyurethane or another material and then cured. The expandable member may then be attached to the shaft by heat welding or another technique. Other techniques may also be used to produce the expandable member . For instance the expandable member may be formed of a pellethane material and blow molded or may be manufactured using other techniques or materials.

The particular structure shape and configuration of the balloon or other expandable member may be varied based on various factors including the location of the lumen being occluded the age size gender or other characteristic of the patient or other factors or any combination of the foregoing. For instance in some embodiments the shape of the expandable member may be generally spherical. In other embodiments however the expandable member may have an elongated structure. An elongated structure may in some embodiments provide additional length that can increase the stability of the distal end of the shaft within the coronary sinus or other lumen of the user.

In accordance with one embodiment the expandable member may include a double walled balloon having a maximum inflated diameter of up to about 17 mm an uninflated diameter of less than about 6 mm and a working length of about 10.5 mm. The expandable member may be positioned about 15 mm from the distal tip of the shaft . The length of the distal tip is added so that the distance between the distal tip and the expandable member may facilitate positioning such that if the expandable member is inadvertently or intentionally pulled from the coronary sinus there may still be sufficient length of the shaft distal to the expandable member to eliminate a need to re locate the shaft within the coronary sinus. Accordingly in some embodiments the distal tip extends distally relative to the expandable member which may further facilitate engaging the ostia and advancing of the catheter .

As further shown in the expandable member may be secured to the shaft and may be positioned concentric relative to the shaft . In at least one embodiment the concentricity of the shaft and the expandable member may generally be maintained even during placement of the expandable member and occlusion of a body lumen. For instance a traditional balloon catheter within the coronary artery may experience up to about forty percent eccentricity as the shaft shifts position within the center of the balloon. In contrast embodiments according to the present disclosure may significantly reduce the ability and or tendency of the shaft to become eccentric during placement of the expandable member . For instance in some embodiments the illustrated embodiments may reduce eccentricity to approximately nine percent. Thus eccentricity can be reduced by about 77 in accordance with embodiments of a retrograde cardioplegia delivery catheter of the present disclosure.

Maintaining the shaft concentric with the expandable member may be desired for any number of reasons. For instance as discussed herein cardioplegic fluid or another fluid may flow from the shaft . If the shaft is allowed to position itself eccentrically relative to the expandable member the shaft and or the distal tip of the shaft may be positioned against a sidewall of a body lumen in which the expandable member is located. As discussed herein the coronary sinus may be relatively fragile when compared to other body lumens. If the fluid flows out of an eccentric tip the fluid may flow directly into the sidewall of the coronary artery thereby increasing a risk of injury or damage to the patient. By maintaining the shaft concentric with the expandable member there is an increased distance between the coronary artery sidewall and the opening where fluid escapes the shaft . Over such distance the pressure may be relieved and the fluid dispersed so as to reduce the risk of injury to the patient.

As noted previously the shaft may include one or more lumens therein. For instance as described relative to three or more lumens may extend at least partially through a length of the shaft . As shown in in at least one embodiment an opening is formed in the shaft . The opening is illustrated as being within the expandable member . For instance in some embodiments one of one or more lumens within the shaft may include an inflation lumen. The inflation lumen may be in communication with the interior of the expandable member through the opening . The opening may be configured to allow delivery of an inflation fluid at a rate sufficient to inflate or otherwise expand the expandable member . For instance the opening may allow approximately two cubic centimeters of fluid to expand the expandable member within about two seconds although in other embodiments more or less fluid or a longer or shorter inflation time may be provided such that the flow rate and pressure can be varied. By way of illustration the pressure within the expandable member may be on the range of about 0.5 to about 2.0 pounds per square inch pressure. Furthermore while only a single opening is illustrated in other embodiments more than one opening may be provided. Further still the opening may be positioned at any position within the expandable member and need not be centered therein. In still another embodiment the expandable member may be self inflating and may for instance use cardioplegic fluid to inflate the expandable member .

A lumen used to inflate or expand the expandable member is merely one example of a lumen that may be used in connection with the catheter . For instance as described above the illustrated catheter may be suitable for use in occluding a portion of the coronary sinus such as during a heart valve replacement or other procedure. For such a procedure a fluid containing a cardioplegic agent such as potassium chloride may be directed through a lumen in the shaft and discharged through one or more openings and into the coronary sinus. The openings may be in communication with a cardioplegic fluid delivery lumen. The primary lumen in is one example of a suitable lumen for delivering cardioplegic fluid. For instance cardioplegic fluid may flow through an optional liner within the primary lumen . The liner may end or openings therein may be aligned with openings near the distal tip of the shaft . The fluid within the liner may then pass through the openings in the walls of the shaft and into the coronary sinus . Cardioplegic fluid can be delivered through the catheter and into the coronary sinus at a sufficient pressure and volumetric flow rate e.g. at about 200 cc min at about 40 mm Hg that the cardioplegic fluid will pass through coronary veins crossing the capillary beds to the coronary arteries and out the ostia.

A pressure lumen may also be provided within the shaft . The pressure lumen may also open to the environment on the exterior of the shaft and in may open at pressure ports through a side wall of the distal tip on the shaft . Alternately a channel in the distal tip could connect with the lumen used for pressure monitoring. At the illustrated position the pressure ports are distal to the expandable member . In such a position upon locating the expandable member within the coronary sinus of a patient pressure within the coronary sinus and distal to the expandable member may be monitored during cardioplegic fluid delivery. Monitoring the pressure in this manner can ensure that the pressure within the coronary sinus is maintained at a safe level so as to avoid causing a rupture or other damage to occur within in the coronary sinus. As discussed herein the distal tip may further be configured to reduce a likelihood of damage to the coronary sinus. For instance the distal tip may be an atraumatic tip. More particularly the distal tip may have a low hardness e.g. at or below 30 Shore D hardness and may further be rounded or otherwise configured such that even in the event the distal tip engages the coronary sinus there is a low likelihood of damage.

It should be appreciated by one skilled in the art in view of the disclosure herein that the openings and pressure ports may be formed in the shaft and or distal tip in any suitable manner. For instance in at least one embodiment the openings and pressure ports may be drilled into or otherwise formed in the shaft following manufacture of the shaft and or tip . By way of illustration in one embodiment the tip may be formed separately from the shaft such as by using an insert mold. The tip may thereafter be secured to the shaft using a thermal bonding process an adhesive or in another suitable manner. Following attachment of the tip to the shaft a drilling process may be performed to form the pressure ports and attach such ports to a pressure monitoring lumen within the shaft . In other embodiments the tip may be molded or otherwise formed such that the pressure ports are pre formed and then are aligned with a pressure monitoring lumen of the shaft during attachment of the tip to the shaft. In other embodiments the openings through which cardioplegia flow and or the pressure ports may be placed in alternative locations. For instance the pressure ports may be formed on the shaft rather than the distal tip while the openings may in some embodiments be on the distal tip . In some embodiments the openings and or pressure ports are formed by drilling or otherwise boring into the shaft .

Returning briefly to it will be appreciated that in some embodiments a retrograde cardioplegia delivery catheter may include an anchor device . According to some embodiments of the present disclosure the anchor device may be movable relative to the shaft and or may connect to a contamination shield . In embodiments in which the anchor device is moveable relative to the shaft the contamination shield may also slide or otherwise move relative to the shaft .

More particularly as described above a retrograde cardioplegia delivery catheter may be introduced into a patient s venous system through the right internal jugular vein and advanced from there into the coronary sinus. To facilitate insertion of the delivery catheter an introducer sheath may be used. In general an introducer sheath may provide a smooth transition into the jugular vein so as to facilitate ease of entry of the delivery catheter with lowered insertion force. Additionally an introducer sheath may provide lubricity to enhance pushability and passage of the catheter therethrough. The introducer sheath may remain in place at the patient s jugular throughout a procedure. In some embodiments the exterior shaft of the catheter may be exposed to contaminants. Such contaminants may be on a surgeon or other clinician s hands may be on a tray on which the catheter is located or may present in other locations.

To reduce the risk of exposing the outer surface of the shaft to contaminants and thereafter inserting the contaminated shaft through the introducer sheath and into the blood supply the anchor device and contamination shield may be used. In particular the anchor device may be configured to attach directly to an introducer sheath. Thereafter the shaft may pressed into the introducer sheath and the shaft may be able to move relative to the anchor device . The contamination shield can encompass the portion of the shaft remaining outside the patient and introducer sheath thereby reducing the risk that the shaft will be exposed to contaminants. In some embodiments when the shaft is at a desired position e.g. when the distal tip is located inside the coronary sinus the anchor device may be selectively and or releasably secured to the shaft . Such securement may substantially prevent the shaft from moving relative to the anchor device which may cause the shaft to be prevented from either being advanced or being retracted until the anchor device is selectively released from the shaft .

Turning now to an enlarged view of the anchor device is provided. It should be appreciated that the anchor device is merely one exemplary embodiment of a suitable anchor device and that any number of devices may be used. In the illustrated embodiment the anchor device includes at least two components. In particular in the illustrated embodiment the anchor device includes an introducer attachment and a clamp . The introducer attachment can be used to attach the anchor device to an introducer sheath while the clamp may alone or in combination with the introducer attachment be used to clamp the anchor device to the shaft .

An introducer sheath may have any number of connection mechanisms. One exemplary connection mechanism includes a post extending radially from an outer or interior surface of the introducer sheath. A distal end of the introducer attachment may be sized to mate with the introducer sheath. For instance the introducer attachment may have an opening into which an end of the introducer sheath is positioned or may have an exterior surface positioned within an opening of the introducer sheath. In the introducer attachment includes an L shaped groove . Regardless of the manner in which the introducer sheath is received the post from the introducer sheath may be inserted fully through the distal portion of the L shaped groove . Following insertion of the introducer sheath in such a manner the anchor device can be rotated thereby causing the post to pass into the proximal portion of the L shaped groove . When positioned in the proximal portion of the groove the anchor device may be selectively secured to the introducer sheath movement of the anchor device along its longitudinal axis can be substantially prevented. The L shaped groove may provide a bayonet style attachment to the introducer sheath however any other suitable connection may be used.

In the illustrated embodiment the anchor device includes a clamp that may be attached to the proximal end of the introducer attachment . In at least some embodiments the clamp may be permitted to move relative to the introducer attachment . For instance the clamp may be at least partially rotatable relative to the introducer attachment. More particularly by rotating the clamp an engagement structure at the interface between the clamp and the introducer attachment may be activated. The engagement structure can engage the shaft which extends through the anchor device . When engaged the shaft may be substantially prevented from moving relative to the anchor device .

One manner of activating an engagement structure by rotating the clamp relative to the introducer attachment is described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 279 597 issued on Jan. 18 1994 and entitled CATHETER COMPRESSION CLAMP which patent is hereby expressly incorporated herein by this reference in its entirety. In the referenced patent a catheter clamp may include rotatable inner and outer members with at least one protrusion that is compressed by a beveled interior sidewall.

In some embodiments the outer ring can be rotated. For instance the outer ring may be rotated in the direction of Arrow A so as to move from the position in to the position in . In it can be seen that the outer ring is aligned with the inner component such that the inner component is positioned within a gap between the shaft and the outer ring . However upon rotating the outer ring the gap may also rotate. Where the inner component is angularly fixed relative to the shaft the inner component may not shift into the gap. Rather an interior surface of the outer ring may move over the inner component . In some embodiments the inner component is compressible. Consequently as the outer ring rotates it may compress the inner component . Compression of the inner component may be used to among other things exert a radially inward direct force towards the shaft . The radially inward force may compress the shaft in a manner that selectively locks the shaft in place relative to the anchor device and substantially prevented from moving longitudinally through the anchor device . By rotating the outer ring in an opposite direction the inner component may decompress and the shaft may be selectively release. The shaft may then be free to move longitudinally relative to the anchor device .

A surgeon may desire to lock the shaft relative to the anchor device for any number of reasons. For instance the shaft may be a part of a retrograde cardioplegia delivery catheter as described herein. The catheter may be extended through a delivery device and into a patient so as to locate a desired component e.g. an expandable member and or distal tip within the coronary sinus of the patient. Upon being positioning the catheter in such a manner the catheter may remain in place for some time while a procedure is performed. For instance a valve replacement may be performed. An example valve replacement is described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 558 644 issued on Sep. 24 1996 and entitled RETROGRADE DELIVERY CATHETER AND METHOD FOR INDUCING CARDIOPLEGIC ARREST which application is expressly incorporated herein by this reference in its entirety.

Once the catheter is in place the surgeon may release the catheter to free his or her hands to perform the desired procedure. However if the catheter is not held in place the catheter may move within the coronary sinus and may extend too far therein or may be inadvertently pushed out from the coronary sinus. To guard against such occurrences the expandable member of the catheter may be expanded to engage the sidewalls of the coronary sinus. The coronary sinus may however be relatively fragile such that high frictional forces between the coronary sinus and the expandable member are not desired. In such a case the catheter may be locked in place using the anchor devices described herein or using any other suitable device. The anchor device may effectively lock the catheter in place relative to the introducer sheath. The column stiffness of the catheter shaft may then be relied upon to maintain the catheter in the desired position.

Although the foregoing invention has been described in some detail by way of illustration and example for purposes of clarity and understanding certain changes and modifications will be obvious to those with skill in the art in view of the disclosure herein. The described embodiments are to be considered in all respects only as illustrative and not restrictive. Thus all changes which come within the meaning and range of equivalency of the claims are to be embraced within their scope.

