---

title: Methods and compositions for the treatment of metabolic disorders
abstract: Embodiments described herein are directed to methods for the treatment and control of hyperlipidemia, hypercholesterolemia, dyslipidemia, and other lipid disorders, and in delaying the onset of or reducing the risk of conditions and sequelae that are associated with these diseases, including atherosclerosis and non-insulin dependent diabetes. In addition, embodiments are directed to methods of treating coronary heart disease and metabolic syndrome. Embodiments are also directed to neurotensin analogs. In embodiments, the neurotensin analogs may be capable of binding to neurotensin receptors and, upon binding, may modulate the levels of lipids in subjects.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08476221&OS=08476221&RS=08476221
owner: Halimed Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
number: 08476221
owner_city: Charleston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120319
---
This application claims benefit of priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 454 360 and No. 61 454 365 filed on Mar. 18 2011 entitled Methods and Compositions for the Treatment of Metabolic Disorders the entire contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference.

Embodiments described herein are directed towards methods devices compositions and kits for the treatment of metabolic disorders. Embodiments herein are directed to a method of treatment of hyperlipidemia hypercholesterolemia dyslipidemia other lipid disorders and other conditions and sequelae that are associated with these diseases such as without limitation atherosclerosis and non insulin dependent diabetes i.e. type 2 diabetes .

Embodiments include a pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound according to Formula I and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient. In embodiments the compound is a neurotensin analog. In some embodiments the compound may be

Embodiments describe a method of treating a lipid disorder comprising administering a compound according to Formula I. In embodiments the compound may be a neurotensin analog. In some embodiments the compound may be

Embodiments describe a method of treating non insulin dependent diabetes mellitus comprising administering a pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound according to Formula I. In embodiments the compound may be a neurotensin analog. In some embodiments the compound may be

Embodiments describe a method of treating conditions associated with non insulin dependent diabetes mellitus comprising administering a pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound according to Formula I. In embodiments the compound may be a neurotensin analog. In some embodiments the compound may be

In some embodiments a method of treating or normalizing abnormal lipid concentrations in a subject comprises administering a compound including the structure of Formula I to a subject in need thereof. See . In some embodiments the abnormal lipid concentration may be selected from total lipid concentration total cholesterol concentration total apolipoprotein concentration total lipoprotein concentration LDL concentration VLDL concentration IDL concentration HDL concentration HDL cholesterol concentration LDL cholesterol concentration triglycerides or a combination thereof. In some embodiments a method of reducing levels of lipids comprises administering a compound including the structure of Formula I to a subject in need thereof. In some embodiments the level of lipids may be lowered in subjects with abnormal lipid levels. In some embodiments the level of lipids may be lowered in subjects with abnormally high lipid levels. In some embodiments the level of lipids may be lowered in subjects with abnormally low lipid levels. In some embodiments the level of lipids may be reduced in subjects with normal lipid levels. In some embodiments the level of lipids comprises the level of cholesterol triglycerides or a combination thereof. In some embodiments a method of lowering lipid concentrations comprises administering a compound including the structure of Formula Ito a subject in need thereof. In some embodiments the lipid concentration may be selected from total lipid concentration total cholesterol concentration total apolipoprotein concentration total lipoprotein concentration LDL concentration VLDL concentration IDL concentration LDL cholesterol concentration triglycerides or a combination thereof. In some embodiments a method of increasing the ratio of HDL concentration to LDL concentration comprises administering a compound including the structure of Formula I to a subject in need thereof. In some embodiments the HDL concentration is the concentration of HDL cholesterol. In some embodiments the LDL concentration is the concentration of LDL cholesterol. In some embodiments a method of increasing HDL concentration comprises administering a compound including the structure of Formula I to a subject in need thereof. In some embodiments the HDL concentration is the concentration of HDL cholesterol. In some embodiments the total lipid concentration comprises the sum of cholesterol and triglyceride concentrations. In some embodiments the total cholesterol concentration comprises the sum of HDL cholesterol and LDL cholesterol concentrations. In some embodiments the total apolipoprotein concentration comprises the sum of the concentrations of apolipoproteins A B C and E. In some embodiments the total lipoprotein concentration comprises the sum of the concentrations of HDL LDL VLDL and IDL.

Before the present compositions and methods are described it is to be understood that this invention is not limited to the particular processes compositions or methodologies described as these may vary. The terminology used in the description is for the purpose of describing the particular versions or embodiments only and it is not intended to limit the scope of the present invention which will be limited only by the appended claims. Unless defined otherwise all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meanings as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art. All publications mentioned herein are incorporated by reference in their entirety. Nothing herein is to be construed as an admission that the invention is not entitled to antedate such disclosure by virtue of prior invention.

It must also be noted that as used herein and in the appended claims the singular forms a an and the include plural reference unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Thus for example reference to an element is a reference to one or more elements and equivalents thereof known to those skilled in the art and so forth.

As used herein the term about means plus or minus 10 of the numerical value of the number with which it is being used. Therefore about 50 means in the range of 45 55 .

A subject or a mammal includes a human or a non human mammal. Non human mammals include but are not limited to livestock and pets such as ovine bovine porcine canine feline and marine mammals. Preferably the subject or mammal is human.

 Administering when used in conjunction with a therapeutic means to administer a therapeutic directly into or onto a target tissue or to administer a therapeutic to a patient whereby the therapeutic positively impacts the tissue to which it is targeted. Thus as used herein the term administering when used in conjunction with a neurotensin analog can include but is not limited to providing the neurotensin analog into or onto the target tissue providing the neurotensin analog systemically to a patient by e.g. intravenous injection whereby the therapeutic reaches the target tissue providing the neurotensin analog in the form of the encoding sequence thereof to the target tissue e.g. by so called gene therapy techniques . Administering a composition may be accomplished by oral injection topical administration or by any method in combination with other known techniques.

The term improves is used to convey that the present invention changes either the appearance form characteristics and or the physical attributes of the tissue to which it is being provided applied or administered. The change in form may be demonstrated by any of the following alone or in combination prevention of or reduction in symptoms of hyperlipidemia hypercholesterolemia dyslipidemia and other lipid disorders delaying the onset of or reducing the risk of conditions and sequelae that are associated with such diseases delaying the onset of atherosclerosis or non insulin dependent diabetes reduction in levels of total cholesterol or Low Density Lipoprotein LDL cholesterol reduction in levels of small dense LDL cholesterol particles Very Low Density Lipoproteins VLDL or Intermediate Density Lipoproteins IDL increased levels of High Density Lipoprotein HDL cholesterol lowered risk of coronary heart disease reduction in level of triglycerides reduction in symptoms of or prevention of obesity hypertension diabetes insulin resistance glucose intolerance cardiovascular disease pancreatitis and prothrombotic state reduction in food intake and control of appetite.

The term inhibiting includes the administration of a compound of the present invention to prevent the onset of the symptoms alleviating the symptoms or eliminating the disease condition or disorder.

As used herein the term therapeutic means an agent utilized to treat combat ameliorate prevent or improve an unwanted condition or disease of a patient. In part embodiments of the present invention are directed to the treatment of lipid disorders or stabilization of abnormal lipid levels.

As used herein the phrase effective amount or therapeutically effective amount refers to a nontoxic but sufficient amount of the composition used in the practice of the invention that is effective to achieve the desired effect i.e. to treat lipid disorders in a mammal. The activity contemplated by the present methods includes both medical therapeutic and or prophylactic treatment as appropriate including for example a reduction and or alleviation of the signs symptoms or causes of a disease or disorder or any other desired alteration of a biological system. The specific dose of a compound administered according to this invention to obtain therapeutic and or prophylactic effects will of course be determined by the particular circumstances surrounding the case including for example the compound administered the route of administration and the condition being treated. A therapeutically effective amount of compound of this invention is typically an amount such that when it is administered in a physiologically tolerable excipient composition it is sufficient to achieve an effective systemic concentration or local concentration in the tissue. The compounds are effective over a wide dosage range. For example suitable doses of compounds of the invention to be administered may be from about 0.01 mg kg to about 300 mg kg body weight. In some embodiments dosages are from about 1 mg kg to about 100 mg kg body weight. However it will be understood that the effective amount administered will be determined by the physician in the light of the relevant circumstances including the condition to be treated the choice of compound to be administered and the chosen route of administration and therefore the above dosage ranges are not intended to limit the scope of this disclosure in any way.

The terms treat treated or treating as used herein refers to both therapeutic treatment and prophylactic or preventative measures wherein the object is to prevent ameliorate the effects of or slow down lessen an undesired physiological condition disorder or disease or to obtain beneficial or desired clinical results. For the purposes of this invention beneficial or desired clinical results include but are not limited to alleviation of symptoms diminishment of the extent of the condition disorder or disease reducing the severity of a symptom of a condition disease or disorder reducing the frequency of a symptom of a condition disease or disorder stabilization i.e. not worsening of the state of the condition disorder or disease delay in onset or slowing of the progression of the condition disorder or disease amelioration of the condition disorder or disease state and remission whether partial or total whether detectable or undetectable or enhancement or improvement of the condition disorder or disease. Treatment includes eliciting a clinically significant response without excessive levels of side effects. Treatment also includes prolonging survival as compared to expected survival if not receiving treatment.

The term alkyl as used herein refers to a branched or unbranched saturated hydrocarbon group of 1 to 24 carbon atoms such as without limitation methyl ethyl n propyl isopropyl n butyl isobutyl tert butyl pentyl hexyl heptyl octyl decyl and the like. Preferred alkyl groups herein contain 1 to 6 carbon atoms. Alkyl groups may be optionally substituted with one to three groups chosen from halo amino methoxy ethoxy hydroxyl methylthio methylsulfonyl nitro aryl heterocyclyl and heteroaryl.

The term alkenyl as used herein refers to a branched or unbranched hydrocarbon group of 1 to 24 carbon atoms containing at least one unsaturated bond such as without limitation vinyl propenyl butenyl pentenyl hexenyl heptenyl octenyl decenyl and the like. Preferred alkyl groups herein contain 1 to 6 carbon atoms. Alkyl groups may be optionally substituted with one to three groups chosen from halo amino methoxy ethoxy hydroxyl methylthio methylsulfonyl nitro aryl heterocyclyl and heteroaryl.

The term cycloalkyl refers to ring containing alkyl radicals. Examples include cyclohexyl cyclopentyl cyclopropyl cyclopropylmethyl and norbornyl. Cycloalkyl groups may be optionally substituted with one to three groups chosen from halo amino methoxy ethoxy hydroxyl methylthio methylsulfonyl nitro aryl heterocyclyl and heteroaryl.

The term aryl employed alone or in combination with other terms means unless otherwise stated a carbocyclic aromatic group containing one or more rings typically one two or three rings . Multiple rings may be attached together in a pendent manner such as a biphenyl or may be fused such as naphthalene. Examples include but are not limited to phenyl anthracyl and naphthyl. Preferred are phenyl and naphthyl most preferred is phenyl. Aryl groups may be optionally substituted with one to three groups chosen from halo amino methoxy ethoxy hydroxyl methylthio methylsulfonyl nitro aryl heterocyclyl and heteroaryl.

The term heterocycle heterocyclyl or heterocyclic by itself or as part of another substituent means unless otherwise stated an unsubstituted or substituted stable mono or multicyclic heterocyclic ring system consisting of carbon atoms and at least one heteroatom selected from the group consisting of N O and S and wherein the nitrogen and sulfur heteroatoms may be optionally oxidized and the nitrogen atom may be optionally quaternized. The heterocycle may be attached to the compound of which it is a component unless otherwise stated at any heteroatom or carbon atom in the heterocycle that affords a stable structure. Heterocyclic groups may be optionally substituted with one to three groups chosen from halo amino methoxy ethoxy hydroxyl methylthio methylsulfonyl nitro aryl heterocyclyl and heteroaryl.

Examples of non aromatic heterocycles include monocyclic groups such as aziridinyl oxiranyl thiiranyl azetidinyl oxetanyl thietanyl imidazolinyl pyrazolidinyl dioxolanyl sulfolanyl 2 3 dihydrofuranyl 2 5 dihydrofuranyl tetrahydrofuranyl thiophanyl piperidinyl 1 2 3 6 tetrahydropyridinyl 1 4 dihydropyridinyl piperazinyl morpholinyl thiomorpholinyl pyranyl 2 3 dihydropyranyl tetrahydropyranyl 1 4 dioxanyl 1 3 dioxanyl homopiperazinyl homopiperidinyl 1 3 dioxepinyl 4 7 dihydro 1 3 dioxepinyl and hexamethyleneoxide.

The term heteroaryl or heteroaromatic refers to a heterocycle having aromatic character. A monocyclic heteroaryl group is preferably a 5 6 or 7 membered ring examples of which are pyrrolyl furyl thienyl pyridyl pyrimidinyl and pyrazinyl. A polycyclic heteroaryl may comprise multiple aromatic rings or may include one or more partially saturated rings. Heteroaryl groups may be optionally substituted with one to three groups chosen from halo amino methoxy ethoxy hydroxyl methylthio methylsulfonyl nitro aryl heterocyclyl and heteroaryl.

Examples of monocyclic heteroaryl groups include for example six membered monocyclic aromatic rings such as for example pyridyl pyrazinyl pyrimidinyl and pyridazinyl and five membered monocyclic aromatic rings such as for example thienyl furyl imidazolyl thiazolyl oxazolyl pyrazolyl isothiazolyl 1 2 3 triazolyl 1 2 4 triazolyl 1 3 4 triazolyl tetrazolyl 1 2 3 thiadiazolyl 1 2 3 oxadiazolyl 1 3 4 thiadiazolyl and 1 3 4 oxadiazolyl.

Examples of polycyclic heteroaryl groups containing a partially saturated ring include tetrahydroquinolyl and 2 3 dihydrobenzofuryl.

Examples of polycyclic heteroaryls include indolyl indolinyl quinolyl tetrahydroquinolyl isoquinolyl 1 2 3 4 tetrahydroisoquinolyl cinnolinyl quinoxalinyl quinazolinyl phthalazinyl 1 8 naphthyridinyl 1 4 benzodioxanyl chromene 2 one yl coumarinyl dihydrocoumarin chromene 4 one yl benzofuryl 1 5 naphthyridinyl 2 3 dihydrobenzofuryl 1 2 benzisoxazolyl benzothienyl benzoxazolyl benzothiazolyl purinyl benzimidazolyl benzotriazolyl thioxanthinyl benzazepinyl benzodiazepinyl carbazolyl carbolinyl acridinyl pyrrolizidinyl and quinolizidinyl.

As used herein the terms peptide polypeptide or protein are used interchangeably and refer to a compound comprised of amino acid residues covalently linked by peptide bonds. A protein or peptide must contain at least two amino acids and no limitation is placed on the maximum number of amino acids that can comprise the sequence of a protein or peptide. Polypeptides include any peptide or protein comprising two or more amino acids joined to each other by peptide bonds. As used herein the term refers to both short chains which also commonly are referred to in the art as peptides oligopeptides and oligomers for example and to longer chains which generally are referred to in the art as proteins of which there are many types. Polypeptides include for example biologically active fragments substantially homologous polypeptides oligopeptides homodimers heterodimers variants of polypeptides modified polypeptides derivatives analogs and fusion proteins among others. The polypeptides include natural peptides recombinant peptides synthetic peptides or a combination thereof. A peptide that is not cyclic will have a N terminal and a C terminal. The N terminal will have an amino group which may be free i.e. as a NH2 group or appropriately protected for example with a BOC or aFmoc group . The C terminal will have a carboxylic group which may be free i.e. as a COOH group or appropriately protected for example as a benzyl or a methyl ester . A cyclic peptide does not have free N or C terminal since the ends are covalently bonded through an amide bond to form the cyclic structure. Amino acids may be represented by their full names for example leucine 3 letter abbreviations for example Leu and 1 letter abbreviations for example L . The structure of amino acids and their abbreviations can be found in the chemical literature such as in Stryer Biochemistry 3rd Ed. W. H. Freeman and Co. New York 1988. As used herein tLeu represents tert leucine and Pro represents hydroxyproline.

As used herein the term biologically active with respect to the compounds described herein means that the compounds elicit a biological response in a mammal which can be monitored and characterized in comparison with an untreated mammal. One preferred biological response within the invention relates to the ability of the compound to induce changes in lipid concentrations of blood plasma serum urine saliva body fluid and interstitial fluid in a mammal. In this particular case the compound may be administered to the subject orally nasally rectally intravaginally parenterally buccally sublingually intragastrically or topically.

 Medical intervention as used herein means a set of one or more medical procedures or treatments that are required for ameliorating the effects of delaying halting or reversing a disease or disorder of a subject. A medical intervention may involve surgical procedures or not depending on the disease or disorder in question. A medical intervention may be wholly or partially performed by a medical specialist or may be wholly or partially performed by the subject himself or herself if capable under the supervision of a medical specialist or according to literature or protocols provided by the medical specialist.

As used herein and unless otherwise indicated the phrase regulating metabolism indicates an observable i.e. measurable change in at least one aspect of metabolism including but not limited to total blood lipid content blood HDL cholesterol blood LDL cholesterol blood VLDL cholesterol blood triglyceride blood Lp a blood apo A I blood apo E or blood non esterified fatty acids.

As used herein and unless otherwise indicated the phrase altering metabolism indicates an observable i.e. measurable change in at least one aspect of metabolism including but not limited to total blood glucose content blood insulin the blood insulin to blood glucose ratio insulin sensitivity or oxygen consumption.

The term synergistic when applied to the use of two or more drugs in a therapeutic treatment indicates that the therapeutic benefit obtained by combining the two or more drugs in a treatment is greater than the juxtaposition of the therapeutic benefit obtained when each drug is used by itself. If the first drug provides benefit x and the second drug provides benefit y the benefit provided by combining the two drugs has to be greater than x y to characterize synergy or synergistic properties. Synergistic drugs may be administered concomitantly or sequentially in the same formulation or different formulations.

 Pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or pharmaceutically acceptable excipient means a pharmaceutically acceptable material composition or carrier such as a liquid or solid filler diluent excipient solvent or encapsulating material involved in carrying or transporting the compound s of the present invention within or to the subject such that the compound s can perform its intended function. Typically such compounds are carried or transported from one organ or portion of the body to another organ or portion of the body. Each carrier must be acceptable in the sense of being compatible with the other ingredients of the formulation and not injurious to the patient. Some examples of materials that can serve as pharmaceutically acceptable carriers include sugars such as lactose glucose and sucrose starches such as corn starch and potato starch cellulose and its derivatives such as sodium carboxymethyl cellulose ethyl cellulose and cellulose acetate powdered tragacanth malt gelatin talc excipients such as cocoa butter and suppository waxes oils such as peanut oil cottonseed oil safflower oil sesame oil olive oil corn oil and soybean oil glycols such as propylene glycol polyols such as glycerin sorbitol mannitol and polyethylene glycol esters such as ethyl oleate and ethyl laurate agar buffering agents such as magnesium hydroxide and aluminum hydroxide alginic acid pyrogen free water isotonic saline Ringer s solution ethyl alcohol phosphate buffer solutions and other non toxic compatible substances employed in pharmaceutical formulations or combinations thereof. As used herein pharmaceutically acceptable carrier also includes any and all coatings antibacterial and antifungal agents and absorption delaying agents and the like that are compatible with the activity of the compound and are physiologically acceptable to the subject. Supplementary active compounds can also be incorporated into the compositions.

As used herein the term container includes any receptacle for holding the pharmaceutical composition. For example in one embodiment the container is the packaging that contains the pharmaceutical composition. In other embodiments the container is a receptacle other than the packaging that contains the pharmaceutical composition i.e. the container is a receptacle such as a box or vial that contains the packaged pharmaceutical composition or unpackaged pharmaceutical composition and the instructions for use of the pharmaceutical composition. Packaging techniques are well known in the art. The instructions for use of the pharmaceutical composition may for example be contained on the packaging containing the pharmaceutical composition and as such the instructions form an increased functional relationship to the packaged product. In other embodiments the instructions may contain information pertaining to the compound s ability to perform its intended function e.g. treating preventing or reducing one or more lipoprotein abnormalities in a subject.

 Applicator as the term is used herein is used to identify any device including but not limited to a hypodermic syringe a pipette and the like for administering the compounds and compositions used in the practice of the invention.

As used herein controlled release is meant the regulated spatial and temporal release of a compound from a formulation.

As used herein delayed release is meant that the therapeutically active component is not immediately released from the formulation e.g. a carrier particle .

As used herein pulmonary delivery and respiratory delivery refer to delivery of a compound or analogs thereof to a subject by inhalation through the mouth and into the lungs.

As used herein sustained release is meant a form of controlled release whereby the therapeutically active compound is released over an extended period of time.

As used herein formulated for pulmonary administration refers to a composition of the invention containing a therapeutically active compound and formulated with a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient to form a dispersible composition. Compositions formulated for pulmonary administration e.g. as a liquid aerosol powder and any other pulmonary formulation described herein are those manufactured or sold in accordance with governmental regulations regarding a therapeutic regimen that includes instructions for the administration of the composition.

Embodiments herein may be directed to a pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound having the structure of Formula I and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient. In some embodiments the compound may be selected from

The compounds of the invention can be prepared by coupling of individual subunits. For example in a compound of Formula I where Ris methyl Ris CH NH Ris benzyl Ris sec butyl Ris O and Ris H the subunits could be construed as being acetic acid lysine proline phenylalanine isoleucine and leucine as shown below. This example only exemplifies the possibility of envisioning the compound of Formula I as being composed of different subunits and should be not considering as introducing any limitation or preference in this disclosure.

In embodiments the compounds of Formula I are composed of subunits connected by amide bonds. Therefore such compounds could be prepared by formation of amide bonds between the various subunits. Each subunit can be an amino acid an acid or an amine.

In embodiments the subunits may contain substituents on their side chains and such substituents may include amino groups carboxylate groups or arginino groups for example. One skilled in the art would appreciate that such side chain groups may require protection with a protective group before creation of the amide group between the subunits. After the formation of the amide group or at any later stage in the synthesis the protective group of the side chain group may then be removed. See for example the review of amine protecting groups provided in Compendium of Organic Synthetic Methods I S Harrison Wiley Interscience New York N.Y. 1971 the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference. For side chain amino groups some of the preferred protective groups are Boc tert butoxy carbonyl and Fmoc fluorenylmethoxy carbonyl . These groups may be removed by treatment with acid such as trifluoroacetic acid and base such as piperidine respectively. The side chains of the subunits may also incorporate substituents that may be modified into other substituents at a later stage in the synthesis. For example a nitro group in the side chain may be reduced to an amino group if so desired.

In embodiments the subunits required for the synthesis of the compounds described herein may be purchased from commercial sources or prepared by standard synthetic methods known to those skilled in the art. Designing appropriate synthetic routes for each subunit is within the capabilities of those skilled in the art. Since the subunits will be covalently coupled to other subunits through amide bonds it may be convenient to employ as starting materials conveniently protected subunits which can be deprotected at a later stage of the synthesis. A protective subunit may be chosen which does not get cleaved under the coupling conditions but may be cleaved under conditions mild enough to avoid decomposition of the compound of the invention or any intermediate in its synthesis.

In embodiments the subunits of the compounds described herein may be partially or in totality assembled by the Merrifield solid phase method which is an established method for preparing peptides to those skilled in the art. See Merrifield 1986 Science 232 341 the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference. Alternatively in other embodiments the peptide minus one or more of the N terminal units may be expressed recombinantly by known biological methods and the final N terminal residue or residues may be added by chemical methods or by enzymatic condensation with an aminopeptidase. See Enzyme Structure and Mechanism Alan Fersht W.H.Freeman New York N.Y. 1985 the disclosure of which is incorporate herein by reference.

The Merrifield solid phase synthesis may be generically outlined as shown below. Starting with an appropriate anchor resin designed for amino group exposure the carboxy terminus amino acid unit of the peptide having an amino protecting group such as an Fmoc group is anchored to the resin through a selectively cleavable carboxyl coupling link. The amino group of the anchored carboxy terminus unit is then deprotected and the additional amino protected amino acid units are then sequentially coupled in proper sequence. Each coupling step will involve deprotection of the protected amino group of the anchored peptide chain followed by peptide condensation between that unprotected amino group and the carboxyl group of the next amino acid unit. The condensation may be facilely obtained by carbodiimide coupling by Schotten Bauman reaction or by activated acyl group condensation. These condensation reactions are described in Advanced Organic Chemistry 4edition J. March Wiley InterScience New York N.Y. 1992 . Protection of amine carboxyl or any other side chains using appropriate protecting groups that differ from the protecting groups of the amino group entering into the peptide condensation will enable selective peptide condensation of the sequential amino acid units. Selection of appropriate protection groups and conditions for solid phase peptide synthesis are described by Merrifield 1986 cited above .

As a non limiting example of a solid phase synthesis sequence that may be used to prepare the compounds of the invention resin bound N Fmoc leucine may be swelled in DMF dimethylformamide and then the Fmoc group can be cleaved with piperidine 20 in DMF . The piperidine solution may be removed with vacuum filtration and the resin bound amino acid washed with DMF and methylene chloride. Amino acids 4 equivalents may be activated in DMF using HOBt N hydroxy benzotriazole 4 equivalents PyBOP benzotriazol 1 yl oxy tripyrrolidinophosphonium hexafluorophosphate 4 equivalents and DIPEA diisopropylethylamine 10 equivalents and added directly to the peptide reaction vessel. The amino acid couplings may be conducted for approximately 6 hours the resin washed with DMF and methylene chloride and monitored for the presence of free amines using the Kaiser test Kaiser et al. 1970 Anal. Biochem. 34 595 8 . Residues may be recoupled if necessary. The procedure may be repeated with subsequent amino acids to form the desired peptide. Acid catalyzed deprotection may be performed with a trifluoroacetic acid TFA solution containing appropriate scavengers and crude peptides may be precipitated in ice cold ether.

In some embodiments parts or the entirety of the peptide may also be produced by recombinant expression. This biological method involves reengineering a microbe to express parts or the entirety of the peptide. In embodiments a DNA sequence encoding the sequence of parts or the entirety of the peptide may be inserted in proper reading form into a plasmid or other vector capable of causing microbial expression of the DNA. In some embodiments the vector may also contain appropriate control promoter and selection DNA segments. Upon insertion into a microbe such as or the microbe mixture may be selected for appropriate transfection by treatment with the corresponding selection agent. In embodiments the agent may be an antibiotic. In further embodiments the vector may contain a sequence encoding the corresponding detoxifying enzyme for the antibiotic. Chloramphenacol and penicillin are two of such agents. Culturing the transfected microbe and harvesting the expressed peptide as either secreted material of the culture medium or by lysing the microbe cells will provide the crude peptide. The peptide may be purified by known techniques such as lyophilization chromatography such as reverse phase high pressure liquid chromatography and the like. These recombinant techniques for peptide expression are fully set forth in Cold Spring Harbor Current Protocols in Molecular Biology Wiley InterScience Cold Spring Harbor 2003 the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.

In some embodiments the compounds described herein may have structural similarity to the natural peptide neurotensin and may display similar biological activity to this natural peptide. Neurotensin NT is a thirteen amino acid peptide that appears to have functions as a neurotransmitter and neuromodulator in the nervous system and as a local hormone in the periphery . In the periphery neurotensin is a paracrine and endocrine modulator of the digestive tract and acts as a growth factor on a variety of cells. The peptide has been implicated in the regulation of gastro intestinal functions. Fat ingestion induces a dose related increase in neurotensin plasma concentrations. Neurotensin has a number of physiological functions that include the stimulation of pancreatic exocrine secretion inhibition of gastric secretion and inhibition of gastroduodenal motility. Peripherally NT acts as a hormone to induce hypotension and decrease gastric acid secretion. Structurally NT is a linear tridecapeptide with the following sequence pGlu Leu Tyr Glu Asn Lys Pro Arg Arg Pro Tyr Ile Leu OH where pGlu is the cyclic analogue of the natural L glutamate amino acid. The C terminal hexapeptide Arg Arg Pro Tyr Ile Leu known as NT 8 13 is equipotent at producing the physiological effects of NT in vitro and in vivo. This indicates that NT 8 13 is the active fragment.

NTand NTreceptors are G protein coupled receptors GPCRs whereas NTis a non GPCR. NTreceptor has been the receptor most strongly implicated in a number of effects such as food intake modulation of body temperature pain response locomotor activity memory sensorimotor gating. Efforts have been directed to targeting NTreceptors as a strategy to develop novel treatments for several CNS disorders most notably schizophrenia. Other efforts have been directed at developing NT agonists that can penetrate the blood brain barrier BBB after peripheral administration since natural NT is has an extremely short half life as it is prone to rapid cleavage by different peptidases.

Dyslipidemia is characterized by abnormal lipid levels of one or more lipids e.g. cholesterol and triglycerides and or apo lipoproteins e.g. apo lipoproteins A B C and E and or lipoproteins e.g. Low Density Lipoproteins LDL Very Low Density Lipoproteins VLDL and Intermediate Density Lipoproteins IDL which may reflect one of several disorders in the metabolism of lipoproteins. Although treatment options exist contemporary therapeutic agents for treating dyslipidemia possess variable efficacy and considerable adverse safety profiles that limit their full clinical utility. The pharmacokinetic and transport properties of NT 8 13 limit its practicality as a therapeutic agent. Accordingly a therapeutic gap exists for a more efficacious and safer method to treat dyslipidemia including among others with suitable novel pharmaceutical compositions of neurotensin analogs thereof delivery methods and the like.

Cholesterol is mostly carried in Low Density Lipoproteins LDL . LDL cholesterol is commonly known as the bad cholesterol because it has been shown that elevations in LDL cholesterol correlate closely to the risk of coronary heart disease. A smaller component of cholesterol is carried in the High Density Lipoproteins HDL and is commonly known as the good cholesterol. The primary function of HDL is to accept cholesterol deposited in the arterial wall and to transport it back to the liver for disposal through the intestine. Thus it is desirable to lower elevated levels of LDL cholesterol and to increase levels of HDL cholesterol. Increased levels of HDL may be associated with a lower risk for coronary heart disease CHD .

Triglycerides TG are not cholesterol but are another form of lipid in the body. Non lipid risk factors of obesity hypertension diabetes and cigarette smoking are also interrelated with triglycerides as are several emerging risk factors insulin resistance glucose intolerance and prothrombotic state . Thus people with elevated triglycerides may be at an increased risk for cardiovascular disease CVD . In addition elevated triglycerides are associated with other disorders most notably pancreatitis.

Though not used commonly in primary care for the usual diagnosis and treatment of dyslipidemia the Fredrickson Classification performed using lipoprotein plasmaphoresis has been the traditional and remains the most rigorous method for classifying dyslipidemia. The Fredrickson Classification includes 6 phenotypes i.e. I Ha IIb III IV and V with the most common being the isolated hypercholesterolemia or Type IIa which is usually accompanied by elevated concentrations of total and LDL cholesterol. The initial treatment for hypercholesterolemia is often to modify the diet to one low in fat and cholesterol coupled with appropriate physical exercise followed by drug therapy when LDL lowering goals are not met by diet and exercise alone.

Another common form of dyslipidemia is the mixed or combined hyperlipidemia or Type III and III of the Fredrickson Classification. This dyslipidemia is often prevalent in patients with Type II diabetes obesity and metabolic syndrome. In this form of dyslipidemia there are modest elevations of LDL cholesterol accompanied by more pronounced elevations of small dense LDL cholesterol particles VLDL and or IDL i.e. triglyceride rich lipoproteins and total triglycerides. In addition concentrations of HDL are often low in these patients.

Coronary Heart Disease CHD the largest component of death related to CVD is caused by atherosclerosis i.e. hardening of an artery due to an atheromatous plaque. The formation of an atheromatous plaque known as atherogenesis is a complex process involving both cellular and acellular elements of cholesterol cholesterol esters and phospholipids. According to the Third Report of the National Cholesterol Education Program Adult Treatment Panel NCEP ATP III atherogenic dyslipidemia is defined as the triad of elevated triglycerides low HDL C and small LDL C particles. This triad is most commonly found in individuals with an atherogenic phenotype and or Type II Diabetes Mellitus DM and treatment involves lowering triglycerides and increasing HDL C by diet modification increased exercise and pharmacologic therapy with one or more of the following HMG CoA reductase inhibitors statins fibrates nicotinic acid i.e. Niacin cholesterol adsorption inhibitors bile acid binding resins and omega 3 fatty acids. However each has its own drawbacks and limitations in terms of efficacy side effects and qualifying patient population.

Treating abnormal lipid concentrations to prevent atherosclerotic events focuses strongly on LDL cholesterol reduction. The treatment goal is set for depending on the absolute risk an LDL cholesterol of 

Embodiments describe a method for treating a lipid disorder including but not limited to hyperlipidemia hypercholesterolemia and dyslipidemia by modulation of one or more neurotensin receptors using one or more neurotensin analogs. Lipid disorders are considered as the abnormal concentrations of one or more lipids i.e. cholesterol and triglycerides and or apolipoproteins i.e. apolipoproteins A B C and E and or lipoproteins i.e. the macromolecular complexes formed by the lipid and the apolipoprotein that allow lipids to circulate in blood such as Low Density Lipoproteins LDL Very Low Density Lipoproteins VLDL and Intermediate Density Lipoproteins IDL . Without wishing to be bound by theory it is believed that the treatment of diseases or conditions associated with dyslipidemia may be achieved through the modulation of the neurotensin receptors. In embodiments a composition capable of binding to a neurotensin receptor may be exposed to at least one cell a tissue a vessel or an organ of a subject. The compounds of embodiments herein may be formulated to enable exposure or delivery to a subject with various drug delivery methods and devices. The treatment may be packaged within a kit and the kit may optionally include instructions accessories or a combination thereof. In some embodiments the composition may be administered in conjunction with statin fibrate niacin omega 3 fatty acid or a combination thereof.

In some embodiments a method of normalizing abnormal lipid concentrations in a subject comprises administering a compound including the structure of Formula I to a subject in need thereof. See . In some embodiments the abnormal lipid concentration may be selected from total lipid concentration total cholesterol concentration total apolipoprotein concentration total lipoprotein concentration LDL concentration VLDL concentration IDL concentration HDL concentration HDL cholesterol concentration LDL cholesterol concentration triglycerides or a combination thereof. In some embodiments a method of reducing levels of lipids comprises administering a compound including the structure of Formula I to a subject in need thereof. In some embodiments the level of lipids may be lowered in subjects with abnormal lipid levels. In some embodiments the level of lipids may be lowered in subjects with abnormally high lipid levels. In some embodiments the level of lipids may be lowered in subjects with abnormally low lipid levels. In some embodiments the level of lipids may be reduced in subjects with normal lipid levels. In some embodiments the level of lipids comprises the level of cholesterol triglycerides or a combination thereof. In some embodiments a method of lowering lipid concentrations comprises administering a compound including the structure of Formula Ito a subject in need thereof. In some embodiments the lipid concentration may be selected from total lipid concentration total cholesterol concentration total apolipoprotein concentration total lipoprotein concentration LDL concentration VLDL concentration IDL concentration LDL cholesterol concentration triglycerides or a combination thereof. In some embodiments a method of increasing the ratio of HDL concentration to LDL concentration comprises administering a compound including the structure of Formula I to a subject in need thereof. In some embodiments the HDL concentration is the concentration of HDL cholesterol. In some embodiments the LDL concentration is the concentration of LDL cholesterol. In some embodiments a method of increasing HDL concentration comprises administering a compound including the structure of Formula I to a subject in need thereof. In some embodiments the HDL concentration is the concentration of HDL cholesterol. In some embodiments the total lipid concentration comprises the sum of cholesterol and triglyceride concentrations. In some embodiments the total cholesterol concentration comprises the sum of HDL cholesterol and LDL cholesterol concentrations. In some embodiments the total apolipoprotein concentration comprises the sum of the concentrations of apolipoproteins A B C and E. In some embodiments the total lipoprotein concentration comprises the sum of the concentrations of HDL LDL VLDL and IDL.

In some embodiments a method of treating a lipid disorder comprises administering a compound including the structure of Formula I to a subject in need thereof. See . In some embodiments the compound may be selected from HPI 234 HPI 244 HPI 262 HPI 263 HPI 264 HPI 363 HPI 501 or a combination thereof. See . In some embodiments the lipid disorder may be one or more of the following diseases or conditions hyperlipidemia dyslipidemia hypercholesterolemia hypertrigyceridemia hyperglycemia and obesity. In some embodiments the compound may be used to treat non insulin dependent diabetes mellitus NIDDM and or conditions that are often associated with NIDDM but which may be present in non diabetic patients as well including hyperlipidemia dyslipidemia hypercholesterolemia hypertrigyceridemia and obesity. In some embodiments the compound may be used to treat atherosclerosis and hyperinsulinemia. In some embodiments the compound may be used to delay or reduce the risk of sequelae of NIDDM for example by ameliorating the conditions that contribute to the development of these diseases. In some embodiments the compound may be used to reduce cardiovascular events that occur in human patients having metabolic syndrome such as for example coronary heart disease by ameliorating some of the risk factors that are associated with metabolic syndrome.

Some embodiments may be directed to a method of treating dyslipidemia comprising administering a compound including the structure of Formula I as shown in to a subject in need thereof. In some embodiments the compound may be selected from

In some embodiments the compounds of embodiments herein may be used to treat conditions associated with dyslipidemia. In some embodiments a method of treating conditions associated with dyslipidemia comprises administering a compound having the structure of Formula I to a subject in need thereof. In embodiments the conditions associated with dyslipidemia comprises atherosclerosis pancreatitis coronary heart disease stroke cardiac arrest or the like.

Some embodiments provide for a method of treating lipid disorders in cells possessing a neurotensin receptor including but not limited to epithelial cells epithelial like cells endothelial cells endothelial like cells non epithelial cells non endothelial cells neuronal cells intestinal cells and the like. In some embodiments the neurotensin receptor may be selected from NT NT NTor combinations thereof. In certain aspects the cells may include but are not limited to stem cells autogenic allogenic xenogenic or genetically modified variants of any one of the foregoing cell types. According to some embodiments the cells may include without limitation vascular endothelial cells pancreatic cells hepatic cells brain cells immune cells among others. Embodiments herein also include a method of treating the tissues and organs containing such cells.

In some embodiments the compounds used in the methods herein may be administered as a pharmaceutical composition comprising the compound and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. The compound may be present in a pharmaceutical composition in an amount from 0.001 to 99.9 wt more preferably from about 0.01 to 99 wt and even more preferably from 0.1 to 95 wt .

A truncated COOH terminal fragment NT 8 13 has been found to be slightly more stable while maintaining neurotensin receptor affinity. However even the half life of NT 8 13 may be too brief. One approach that has led to the development of several distinct brain penetrating NT analogs has been chemical modification of the c terminal hexapeptide of NT NT 8 13 the smallest fragment to retain full bioactivity of the parent neuropeptide. PD149163 Lys psiCH2NH Lys Pro Trp Ter Leu Leu OEt is one example of a compound synthesized using this approach and receptor binding studies show it has affinity for the NTreceptor but no detectable affinity for the NTreceptor. Peripheral administration of PD149163 has been shown to produce robust positive effects in animal tests of antipsychosis cognitive enhancement anxiety and decreased food intake as a potential treatment candidate for obesity Feifel et. al Neuropharmacology 58 195 198 2010 . On the other hand chemical modification of the NT 8 13 may be made at the N terminus and substitutions of specific amino acids of the NT 8 13 sequence using non natural amino acids as well desamino acids see US Applications 20100130432 20080234202 20080139481 .

Embodiments herein describe compounds having N terminus or C terminus modifications of NT. In some embodiments the compound is a truncated COOH terminal fragment of NT 8 13 . Such NT derived analogs may be used for the treatment of several diseases and conditions including without limitation obesity hyperlipidemia hypercholesterolemia dyslipidemia and other lipid disorders. In some embodiments the treatment of dyslipidemia may delay the onset of or reduce the risk of conditions and sequelae that are associated with abnormal plasma lipid concentrations including without limitation atherosclerosis and non insulin dependent diabetes.

NT induces hypothermia when directly administered into the CNS. As a result induced hypothermia may be used to determine the ability of NT 8 13 analog peptides to cross the blood brain barrier after peripheral administration and indirectly to determine their in vivo CNS activity. Without wishing to be bound by theory it is believed that the hypothermic effect of NT can be attributed to its actions at NTRi. A significant hypothermic effect would demonstrate that the peptide showed marked improvements in blood stability and membrane crossing. In embodiments IP injection is the standard route of administration to determine the extent of BBB crossing of neurotensin analogues. In other embodiments IV administration results in a dose that is completely available to the systemic circulation.

In some embodiments the compounds described herein may have the unexpected ability to ameliorate avoid or treat perioperative shivering or temperature spiking in a mammal. These neurological activities may be traced to the specific interactions of the compounds of the invention within the central nervous system CNS . In some embodiments the compounds may be able to penetrate the CNS to engage in these specific interactions and display biological activities.

Embodiments include a method of exposing or applying a compound of embodiments herein to onto into within or throughout a cell tissue or organ of a subject. In certain embodiments the composition may be applied with a fixed concentration or mixture ratio. In certain embodiments the composition may be applied with varying concentrations or mixture ratio over time. In certain embodiments application may be performed intermittently periodically or continuously over a period to time seconds minutes hours days 5 days 10 days weeks months or any length of time in between. In other embodiments application may be performed simultaneously with other therapeutic agents known in the art in similar said manners.

In embodiments the compound may be administered by any method designed to allow compounds to have a physiological effect. In other embodiments the compound may be administered in the conventional manner by any route in which it is active. Compounds of embodiments herein may be used for prophylactic or therapeutic treatment or a combination thereof. The pharmaceutical compositions may be administered in a variety of unit dosage forms depending upon the method of administration. In some embodiments administration may occur enterally or parenterally for example orally rectally intracisternally intravaginally intraperitoneally or locally. In preferred embodiments administration may be parenteral or local administration.

In some embodiments the composition or analogs thereof may be formulated and incorporated into devices for various routes of delivery including but not limited to transdermal mucosal jet injection topical intravenous intramuscular pulmonary inhalation nasal aerosol buccal oral the like and combinations thereof A formulation containing one or more said compound or analogs thereof may be incorporated into liquid nebulizers aerosol based metered dose inhalers MDI s dry powder dispersion devices pulmonary delivery devices including manually activated gas propelled sonic driven or the like used to expose the formulation to a subject s cell tissue and organs. The formulation may contain other agents or in a carrier to facilitate but not limited to its delivery in specific or varying concentrations or ratio or volume or weight that specifies the properties of the composition including pH hydrophobicity hydrophicility ionic strength stability buffer capacity and the like.

Administration may be systemic topical or oral. For example administration may be but is not limited to parenteral subcutaneous intravenous intramuscular intraperitoneal transdermal oral buccal or ocular routes intravaginally by inhalation by depot injections or by implants. Further modes of administration for the compounds include but are not limited to sublingual injectable including without limitation short acting depot implant and pellet forms injected subcutaneously or intramuscularly or by use of vaginal creams suppositories pessaries vaginal rings rectal suppositories intrauterine devices and transdermal forms such as patches and creams.

Specific modes of administration may depend on the indication. The selection of the specific route of administration and the dose regimen may be adjusted or titrated by the clinician according to methods known to the clinician in order to obtain the optimal clinical response. In some embodiments the composition is administered in a therapeutically effective amount. In embodiments the dosage to be administered may depend on the characteristics of the subject being treated e.g. the particular animal treated age weight health types of concurrent treatment if any and frequency of treatments and can be easily determined by one of skill in the art e.g. by the clinician .

In some embodiments single or multiple administrations of the compositions may be administered depending on the dosage and frequency as required and tolerated by the subject. In some embodiments the compounds may be administered in separate compositions. For example if three different compounds of the invention are to be administered the three different compounds may be delivered in three separate compositions. In other embodiments each compound may be delivered at the same time or the compounds can be delivered consecutively with respect to one another. In some embodiments a mixture of different compounds of embodiments herein may be administered in a single composition or in multiple compositions comprising one or more compounds.

The regimen of administration can affect what constitutes an effective amount. The therapeutic formulations can be administered to the mammal either prior to or after the onset of lipid disorders in the mammal. Further several divided dosages as well as staggered dosages can be administered daily or sequentially or the dose can be continuously infused or can be a bolus injection. Further the dosages of the therapeutic formulations can be proportionally increased or decreased as indicated by the exigencies of the therapeutic or prophylactic situation.

In some embodiments the compounds may be formulated in unit dosage form. As used herein the term unit dosage form refers to physically discrete units suitable as unitary dosage for subjects undergoing treatment with each unit containing a predetermined quantity of active material calculated to produce the desired therapeutic effect optionally in association with a suitable pharmaceutical carrier. In embodiments the unit dosage form may be for a single daily dose or one of multiple daily doses e.g. about 1 to 4 or more times per day . In embodiments where multiple daily doses are used the unit dosage form may be the same or different for each dose. In embodiments the specifications for the unit dosage forms of the invention may be dictated by and may directly dependent on a the unique characteristics of the therapeutic compound and the particular therapeutic effect to be achieved and b the limitations inherent in the art of compounding formulating such a therapeutic compound for the treatment of dyslipidemia.

In some embodiments the composition may be administered in other dosage forms including without limitation dosage forms described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 340 475 6 488 962 6 451 808 5 972 389 5 582 837 5 007 790 or U.S. Patent Publication Nos. 20030147952 20030104062 20030104053 20030044466 20030039688 and 20020051820. In some embodiments the dosage forms may include without limitation dosage forms described in PCT Application Nos. WO 03 35041 WO 03 35040 WO 03 35029 WO 03 35177 WO 03 35039 WO 02 96404 WO 02 32416 WO 01 97783 WO 01 56544 WO 01 32217 WO 98 55107 WO 98 11879 WO 97 47285 WO 93 18755 and WO 90 11757.

In some embodiments a suitable dose of a compound of embodiments herein may be in the range of from about 1 mg to about 5 000 mg per day or from about 10 mg to about 2 000 mg per day. The dose may be administered in a single dosage or in multiple dosages for example from 1 to 4 or more times per day. In embodiments where multiple dosages are used the amount of each dosage may be the same or different. For example in some embodiments a dose of 1 mg per day can be administered as two 0.5 mg doses with about a 12 hour interval between doses.

In some embodiments a dose of a compound of embodiments herein may be between about 1 mg and about 2 000 mg. In some embodiments a dose of a compound of the invention used in compositions described herein may be from about 2 mg to about 1 000 mg. In some embodiments a dose of a compound of the invention used in compositions described herein may be from about 1 mg to about 1000 mg about 1 mg to about 500 mg about 1 mg to about 250 mg about 1 mg to about 200 mg about 1 mg to about 100 mg about 10 mg to about 1000 mg about 10 mg to about 500 mg about 10 mg to about 250 mg about 10 mg to about 200 mg about 10 mg to about 100 mg about 50 mg to about 1000 mg about 50 mg to about 500 mg about 50 mg to about 250 mg about 50 mg to about 200 mg about 50 mg to about 100 mg about 100 mg to about 1000 mg about 100 mg to about 500 mg about 100 mg to about 250 mg about 100 mg to about 200 mg about 200 mg to about 1000 mg about 200 mg to about 500 mg about 200 mg to about 250 mg about 250 mg to about 500 mg about 500 mg to about 1000 mg about 4 mg to about 500 mg about 8 mg to about 250 mg about 16 mg and about 125 mg about 30 mg to about 60 mg or any combination thereof.

In some embodiments the compound may be administered every day every other day every 2 days every 3 days every 4 days every 5 days and so forth. As an example in an embodiment where the compound is in administered every other day at a dose of 5 mg day a 5 mg per day dose may be initiated on Monday with a first subsequent 5 mg per day dose administered on Wednesday a second subsequent 5 mg per day dose administered on Friday etc.

The composition may be administered either alone or in combination with other therapeutic agents. In some embodiments the compounds described in embodiments herein may be administered in combination with other therapies commonly used for the treatment and control of hyperlipidemia hypercholesterolemia dyslipidemia and other lipid disorders as well as delaying the onset of or reducing the risk of conditions and sequelae that are associated with these diseases including atherosclerosis and non insulin dependent diabetes. In some embodiments the compounds may be administered in combination with other active ingredients such as for example adjuvants protease inhibitors or other compatible drugs or compounds where such combination is seen to be desirable or advantageous in achieving the desired effects of the methods described herein. In some embodiments the compound may be administered in combination with drugs known to treat prevent or reduce dyslipidemia. In some embodiments the other active ingredients may include statin fibrate omega 3 fatty acid nicotinic acid or a combination thereof.

In certain embodiments the combination of compounds described herein may result in synergistic increase in effectiveness for treating lipid disorders relative to effectiveness following administration of each compound when used alone or such an increase can be additive. In some embodiments compositions described herein include lower dosages of each compound in a composition thereby avoiding adverse interactions between compounds and or harmful side effects. In some embodiments compounds given in combination may provide for greater efficacy in subjects who are either unresponsive or minimally responsive to each compound when used alone.

In some embodiments a mixture of two or more compounds of embodiments herein may be administered in equimolar concentrations to a subject in need of such treatment. In another embodiment two or more compounds may be administered in concentrations that are not equimolar. In other embodiments two or more compounds may be administered as equal amounts by weight per kilogram of body weight. For example the compounds of the invention may be administered in equal amounts based on the weight of the subject. In some embodiments the compounds of the invention may be administered in unequal amounts. In some embodiments the amount of each compound of the invention to be administered is based on its biological activity.

In some embodiments pharmaceutical compositions that are useful in the methods used in the practice of the invention may be prepared in formulations suitable for oral rectal intracisternal intravaginal intraperitoneal or local or another route of administration. Other contemplated formulations include projected nanoparticles liposomal preparations resealed erythrocytes containing the active ingredient and immunologically based formulations.

Pharmaceutical formulations containing the compounds of the present invention and a suitable carrier may be solid dosage forms which include but are not limited to tablets capsules cachets pellets pills powders and granules topical dosage forms which include but are not limited to solutions powders drops fluid emulsions fluid suspensions semi solids ointments pastes creams gels and jellies and foams and parenteral dosage forms which include but are not limited to solutions suspensions emulsions and dry powder comprising an effective amount of a polymer or copolymer of the present invention. It is also known in the art that the active ingredients can be contained in such formulations with pharmaceutically acceptable diluents fillers disintegrants binders lubricants surfactants hydrophobic vehicles water soluble vehicles emulsifiers buffers humectants moisturizers solubilizers preservatives and the like. The means and methods for administration are known in the art and an artisan can refer to various pharmacologic references for guidance. For example Modern Pharmaceutics Banker Rhodes Marcel Dekker Inc. 1979 and 6th Edition MacMillan Publishing Co. New York 1980 can be consulted. In some embodiments a method of treating dyslipidemia comprises administering the composition of embodiments herein in a physically applicable or implantable predetermined solid form of material containing the composition. In embodiments the compositions may be preferably combined with a solid carrier that itself is bio acceptable and suitably shaped for its use.

In some embodiments the composition may be administered by parenteral administration. As used herein parenteral administration of a pharmaceutical composition includes any route of administration characterized by physical breaching of a tissue of a subject and administration of the pharmaceutical composition through the breach in the tissue. Parenteral administration thus includes but is not limited to administration of a pharmaceutical composition by injection of the composition by application of the composition through a surgical incision by application of the composition through a tissue penetrating non surgical wound and the like. In particular parenteral administration is contemplated to include but is not limited to subcutaneous intraperitoneal intramuscular intrasternal injection and kidney dialytic infusion techniques. Particularly preferred parenteral administration methods include intravascular administration e.g. intravenous bolus injection intravenous infusion intra arterial bolus injection intra arterial infusion and catheter instillation into the vasculature pen and intratarget tissue injection subcutaneous injection or deposition including subcutaneous infusion such as by osmotic pumps intramuscular injection intraperitoneal injection and direct application to the target area for example by a catheter or other placement device.

In embodiments formulations of a pharmaceutical composition suitable for parenteral administration comprise the active compound and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. In some embodiments the carrier is an aqueous carrier. Examples of such carriers include sterile water or sterile isotonic saline. In some embodiments such formulations may be prepared in a form suitable for bolus administration or for continuous administration. In some embodiments injectable formulations may be prepared in unit dosage form. Such unit dosage forms may include for example ampules or multi dose containers containing a preservative.

In some embodiments formulations for parenteral administration may include but are not limited to suspensions solutions emulsions in oily or aqueous vehicles pastes and implantable sustained release or biodegradable formulations. Such formulations may further comprise one or more additional ingredients including but not limited to suspending stabilizing or dispersing agents. In some embodiments of a formulation for parenteral administration the compound may provided in dry e.g. powder or granular form for reconstitution with a suitable vehicle e.g. sterile pyrogen free water prior to parenteral administration of the reconstituted composition.

In certain embodiments the compositions for parenteral administration may be prepared in the form of a sterile injectable aqueous or oily suspension or solution. In some embodiments this suspension or solution may be formulated according to the known art and may comprise in addition to the active ingredient additional ingredients such as the dispersing agents wetting agents or suspending agents described herein. Such sterile injectable formulations may be prepared using a non toxic parenterally acceptable diluent or solvent such as water or 1 3 butanediol for example. Other acceptable diluents and solvents may include but are not limited to Ringer s solution isotonic sodium chloride solution and fixed oils such as synthetic mono or diglycerides. Other usual parentally administrable formulations may include those that comprise the active ingredient in microcrystalline form in a liposomal preparation or as a component of a biodegradable polymer system. Compositions for sustained release or implantation may comprise pharmaceutically acceptable polymeric or hydrophobic materials such as an emulsion an ion exchange resin a sparingly soluble polymer or a sparingly soluble salt.

In embodiments for parenteral administration a variety of aqueous carriers may be used e.g. buffered saline and the like. In embodiments these suspensions may be sterile and generally free of undesirable matter. These compositions may be sterilized by conventional well known sterilization techniques. The compositions may contain pharmaceutically acceptable auxiliary substances as required to approximate physiological conditions such as pH adjusting and buffering agents toxicity adjusting agents and the like for example sodium acetate sodium chloride potassium chloride calcium chloride sodium lactate and the like. The amount of the compound can vary widely and will be selected primarily based on fluid volumes viscosities body weight and the like in accordance with the particular mode of administration selected and the subject s needs.

In embodiments the composition may be administered by continuous infusion subcutaneously over a period of about 15 minutes to about 24 hours. The compositions may take such forms as suspensions solutions or emulsions in oily or aqueous vehicles and may contain formulatory agents such as suspending stabilizing and or dispersing agents.

In some embodiments the pharmaceutical composition for intravenous administration may be in a dose of from about 1 to about 3 000 mg per subject per day. Dosages from about 1 to about 1 000 mg per subject per day may be used particularly when the drug is administered to a secluded site and not into the blood stream such as into a body cavity or into a lumen of an organ. Methods for preparing parenterally administrable compositions will be known or apparent to those skilled in the art and are described in more detail in such publications as Remington s Pharmaceutical Science 15th ed. 1980 Mack Publishing Company Easton PA .

In an embodiment the composition may be in the form of a solid formulated for oral delivery. In certain embodiments the composition may be the form of a powder that can be made soluble or reconstituted with a buffer solution or a carrier. In certain embodiments the composition may be in the form of a capsule formulated for oral delivery. In certain embodiments the composition may be in form of a dry powder formulated for pulmonary delivery. In certain embodiments the composition may be in form of an aerosol liquid droplet formulated for pulmonary delivery. In certain embodiments the composition may be in the form of an emulsion formulated for topical exposure to the subject. In an embodiment the compositions may be incorporated in a topical vehicle in the form of a patch a gel a hydrogel a wound dressing a gauze a sponge a cloth an absorbent pad a cream a lotion a stick an ointment a gel a spray a foam an aerosol a liquid drop or the like. In another preferred embodiment the said compositions and various combinations are delivered via a liposome or the like. In some embodiments the compositions can be statically bound to the surface of a liposome covalently attached to the surface of a liposome or encapsulated within a liposome. In some embodiments the compositions may be statically bound to the surface of a particle covalently attached to the surface of a particle or encapsulated within a particle or a shell. In some embodiments the formulations and delivery vehicles may be configured for specific therapeutic transport characteristics including but not limited to pulsatile rapid continuous sustained release controlled release and combinations thereof. In some embodiments the compositions may contain other agents that enable sufficient efficient and effective delivery for the treatment of lipid disorders.

In some methods of treatment of lipid disorders in the broadest sense it may be desirable to have available a physically applicable or implantable predetermined solid form of material containing the composition of the invention. In such embodiments the compositions of the present invention may be combined with a solid carrier that is bio acceptable and suitably shaped for its use.

For oral administration the compounds may be formulated readily by combining these compounds with pharmaceutically acceptable carriers well known in the art. Such carriers enable the compounds of the invention to be formulated as tablets pills dragees capsules liquids gels syrups slurries suspensions and the like for oral ingestion by a patient to be treated. For example the compounds of the invention may be incorporated into a solid pill or may in the form of a liquid dispersion or suspension. In general therefore the compositions of the present invention preferably comprise compounds of Formula I and a suitable non toxic physiologically acceptable carrier. A variety of non toxic physiologically acceptable carriers may be used in forming these compositions and it is generally preferred that these compositions be of physiologic salinity.

Pharmaceutical preparations for oral use may be obtained by adding a solid excipient optionally grinding the resulting mixture and processing the mixture of granules after adding suitable auxiliaries if desired to obtain tablets or dragee cores. For buccal administration the compositions can take the form of e.g. tablets or lozenges formulated in a conventional manner.

Suitable excipients include but are not limited to fillers such as sugars including but not limited to lactose sucrose mannitol and sorbitol cellulose preparations such as but not limited to maize starch wheat starch rice starch potato starch gelatin gum tragacanth methyl cellulose hydroxypropylmethyl cellulose sodium carboxymethylcellulose and polyvinylpyrrolidone PVP . If desired disintegrating agents may be added such as but not limited to the cross linked polyvinyl pyrrolidone agar or alginic acid or a salt thereof such as sodium alginate.

A formulation of a pharmaceutical composition for oral administration may be prepared in the form of a discrete solid dose unit including but not limited to a tablet a hard or soft capsule a cachet a troche or a lozenge each containing a predetermined amount of the active ingredient. Other formulations suitable for oral administration may include but are not limited to a powdered or granular formulation an aqueous or oily suspension an aqueous or oily solution or an emulsion. As used herein an oily liquid comprises a carbon containing liquid molecule that exhibits a less polar character than water.

A tablet comprising the active ingredient may for example be made by compressing or molding the active ingredient optionally with one or more additional ingredients. Compressed tablets may be prepared by compressing in a suitable device the active ingredient in a free flowing form such as a powder or granular preparation optionally mixed with one or more of a binder a lubricant an excipient a surface active agent and a dispersing agent. Molded tablets may be made by molding in a suitable device a mixture of the active ingredient a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier and at least sufficient liquid to moisten the mixture.

Pharmaceutically acceptable excipients used in the manufacture of tablets include but are not limited to inert diluents granulating and disintegrating agents binding agents and lubricating agents. Dispersing agents include but are not limited to potato starch and sodium starch glycolate. Surface active agents include but are not limited to sodium lauryl sulphate. Diluents include but are not limited to calcium carbonate sodium carbonate lactose microcrystalline cellulose calcium phosphate calcium hydrogen phosphate and sodium phosphate. Granulating and disintegrating agents include but are not limited to corn starch and alginic acid. Binding agents include but are not limited to gelatin acacia pre gelatinized maize starch polyvinylpyrrolidone and hydroxypropyl methylcellulose. Lubricating agents include but are not limited to magnesium stearate stearic acid silica and talc.

Tablets may be non coated or they may be coated using known methods to achieve delayed disintegration in the gastrointestinal tract of a subject thereby providing sustained release and absorption of the active ingredient. By way of example a material such as glyceryl monostearate or glyceryl distearate may be used to coat tablets. Further by way of example tablets may be coated using methods described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 256 108 4 160 452 and 4 265 874 to form osmotically controlled release tablets. Tablets may further comprise a sweetening agent a flavoring agent a coloring agent a preservative or some combination of these in order to provide pharmaceutically elegant and palatable preparation. 

Hard capsules comprising the active compound may be made using a physiologically degradable composition such as gelatin. Such hard capsules comprise the active ingredient and may further comprise additional ingredients including for example an inert solid diluent such as calcium carbonate calcium phosphate or kaolin. Soft gelatin capsules comprising the active ingredient may be made using a physiologically degradable composition such as gelatin. Such soft capsules comprise the active ingredient which may be mixed with water or an oil medium such as peanut oil liquid paraffin or olive oil.

Liquid formulations of a pharmaceutical composition used in the practice of the invention that are suitable for oral administration may be prepared packaged and sold either in liquid form or in the form of a dry product intended for reconstitution with water or another suitable vehicle prior to use. Liquid suspensions may be prepared using conventional methods to achieve suspension of the active ingredient in an aqueous or oily vehicle. Aqueous vehicles include for example water and isotonic saline. Oily vehicles include for example almond oil oily esters ethyl alcohol vegetable oils such as arachis olive sesame or coconut oil fractionated vegetable oils and mineral oils such as liquid paraffin. Liquid suspensions may further comprise one or more additional ingredients including but not limited to suspending agents dispersing or wetting agents emulsifying agents demulcents preservatives buffers salts flavorings coloring agents and sweetening agents. Oily suspensions may further comprise a thickening agent. Suspending agents include but are not limited to sorbitol syrup hydrogenated edible fats sodium alginate polyvinylpyrrolidone gum tragacanth gum acacia and cellulose derivatives such as sodium carboxymethylcellulose methylcellulose hydroxypropyl methylcellulose. Dispersing or wetting agents include but are not limited to naturally occurring phosphatides such as lecithin condensation products of an alkylene oxide with a fatty acid with a long chain aliphatic alcohol with a partial ester derived from a fatty acid and a hexitol or with a partial ester derived from a fatty acid and a hexitol anhydride e.g. polyoxyethylene stearate heptadecaethyleneoxycetanol polyoxyethylene sorbitol monooleate and polyoxyethylene sorbitan monooleate respectively . Emulsifying agents may include but are not limited to lecithin and acacia. Preservatives include but are not limited to methyl ethyl or n propyl para hydroxybenzoates ascorbic acid and sorbic acid. Sweetening agents include for example glycerol propylene glycol sorbitol sucrose and saccharin. Thickening agents for oily suspensions include for example beeswax hard paraffin and cetyl alcohol.

Powdered and granular formulations of a pharmaceutical preparation used in the practice of the invention may be prepared using known methods. Such formulations may be administered directly to a subject used for example to form tablets to fill capsules or to prepare an aqueous or oily suspension or solution by addition of an aqueous or oily vehicle thereto. Each of these formulations may further comprise one or more of dispersing or wetting agent a suspending agent and a preservative. Additional excipients such as fillers and sweetening flavoring or coloring agents may also be included in these formulations.

Dragee cores may be provided with suitable coatings. For this purpose concentrated sugar solutions may be used which may optionally contain gum arabic talc polyvinyl pyrrolidone carbopol gel polyethylene glycol and or titanium dioxide lacquer solutions and suitable organic solvents or solvent mixtures. Dyestuffs or pigments may be added to the tablets or dragee coatings for identification or to characterize different combinations of active compound doses.

Pharmaceutical preparations which may be used orally include but are not limited to push fit capsules made of gelatin as well as soft sealed capsules made of gelatin and a plasticizer such as glycerol or sorbitol. The push fit capsules may contain the active ingredients in admixture with filler such as e.g. lactose binders such as e.g. starches and or lubricants such as e.g. talc or magnesium stearate and optionally stabilizers. In soft capsules the active compounds can be dissolved or suspended in suitable liquids such as fatty oils liquid paraffin or liquid polyethylene glycols. In addition stabilizers can be added. All formulations for oral administration should be in dosages suitable for such administration.

For buccal administration the compositions can take the form of e.g. tablets or lozenges formulated in a conventional manner.

A pharmaceutical composition used in the practice of the invention may also be prepared in the form of oil in water emulsion or a water in oil emulsion. The oily phase may be a vegetable oil such as olive or arachis oil a mineral oil such as liquid paraffin or a combination of these. Such compositions may further comprise one or more emulsifying agents such as naturally occurring gums such as gum acacia or gum tragacanth naturally occurring phosphatides such as soybean or lecithin phosphatide esters or partial esters derived from combinations of fatty acids and hexitol anhydrides such as sorbitan monooleate and condensation products of such partial esters with ethylene oxide such as polyoxyethylene sorbitan monooleate. These emulsions may also contain additional ingredients including for example sweetening or flavoring agents.

In some embodiments the composition is formulated with a coating. Methods for impregnating or coating a material with a chemical composition are known in the art and include but are not limited to methods of depositing or binding a chemical composition onto a surface methods of incorporating a chemical composition into the structure of a material during the synthesis of the material e.g. such as with a physiologically degradable material and methods of absorbing an aqueous or oily solution or suspension into an absorbent material with or without subsequent drying.

The formulations of the pharmaceutical compositions described herein may be prepared by any method known or hereafter developed in the art of pharmacology. In embodiments such preparatory methods include the step of bringing the active ingredient into association with a carrier or one or more other accessory ingredients and then if necessary or desirable shaping or packaging the product into a desired single or multi dose unit.

In some embodiments the pharmaceutical composition may be prepared as a single unit dose or as a plurality of single unit doses. As used herein a unit dose is discrete amount of the pharmaceutical composition comprising a predetermined amount of the active ingredient. In some embodiments in a unit dose the amount of the active ingredient is generally equal to the dosage of the active ingredient that would be administered to a subject or a convenient fraction of such a dosage such as for example one half or one third of such a dosage.

The relative amounts of the active ingredient the pharmaceutically acceptable carrier and any additional ingredients in a pharmaceutical composition used in the practice of the invention will vary depending upon the identity size and condition of the subject treated and further depending upon the route by which the composition is to be administered.

Pharmaceutical compositions of the compounds also can comprise suitable solid or gel phase carriers or excipients. Examples of such carriers or excipients include but are not limited to calcium carbonate calcium phosphate various sugars starches cellulose derivatives gelatin and polymers such as e.g. polyethylene glycols.

In some embodiments the composition may be administered by vaginal or perivaginal administration. Vaginal or perivaginal dosage forms may include vaginal suppositories creams ointments liquid formulations pessaries tampons gels pastes foams or sprays. In embodiments the suppository cream ointment liquid formulation pessary tampon gel paste foam or spray for vaginal or perivaginal delivery may comprise a therapeutically effective amount of the selected active agent and one or more conventional nontoxic carriers suitable for vaginal or perivaginal drug administration. In embodiments the vaginal or perivaginal forms of the present invention may be manufactured using conventional processes as disclosed in Remington The Science and Practice of Pharmacy supra see also drug formulations as adapted in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 515 198 6 500 822 6 417 186 6 416 779 6 376 500 6 355 641 6 258 819 6 172 062 and 6 086 909 . In some embodiments the vaginal or perivaginal dosage unit may be fabricated to disintegrate rapidly or over a period of several hours. In some embodiments the time period for complete disintegration may be in the range of from about 10 minutes to about 6 hours e.g. less than about 3 hours.

In some embodiments the composition may be administered intranasally or by inhalation. Compositions for intranasal administration may be liquid formulations for administration as a spray or in the form of drops although powder formulations for intranasal administration e.g. insufflations nasal gels creams pastes or ointments or other suitable formulators can be used. For liquid formulations the compounds of embodiment herein may be formulated into a solution e.g. water or isotonic saline buffered or unbuffered or as a suspension. In certain embodiments such solutions or suspensions may be isotonic relative to nasal secretions and of about the same pH ranging e.g. from about pH 4.0 to about pH 7.4 or from about pH 6.0 to about pH 7.0. Buffers should be physiologically compatible and include for example phosphate buffers. Furthermore various devices are available in the art for the generation of drops droplets and sprays including droppers squeeze bottles and manually and electrically powered intranasal pump dispensers. Compositions containing intranasal carriers may also include nasal gels creams pastes or ointments with a viscosity of e.g. from about 10 to about 6 500 cps or greater depending on the desired sustained contact with the nasal mucosal surfaces. Such carrier viscous formulations may be based upon for example alkylcelluloses and or other biocompatible carriers of high viscosity well known to the art see e.g. Remington The Science and Practice of Pharmacy supra . Other ingredients such as preservatives colorants lubricating or viscous mineral or vegetable oils perfumes natural or synthetic plant extracts such as aromatic oils and humectants and viscosity enhancers such as e.g. glycerol can also be included to provide additional viscosity moisture retention and a pleasant texture and odor for the formulation. Formulations for inhalation may be prepared as an aerosol either a solution aerosol in which the active agent is solubilized in a carrier e.g. propellant or a dispersion aerosol in which the active agent is suspended or dispersed throughout a carrier and an optional solvent. In embodiments non aerosol formulations for inhalation may take the form of a liquid typically an aqueous suspension although aqueous solutions may be used as well. In further embodiments the carrier may a sodium chloride solution having a concentration such that the formulation is isotonic relative to normal body fluid. In embodiments the liquid formulations may contain water and or excipients including an antimicrobial preservative e.g. benzalkonium chloride benzethonium chloride chlorobutanol phenylethyl alcohol thimerosal and combinations thereof a buffering agent e.g. citric acid potassium metaphosphate potassium phosphate sodium acetate sodium citrate and combinations thereof a surfactant e.g. polysorbate 80 sodium lauryl sulfate sorbitan monopalmitate and combinations thereof and or a suspending agent e.g. agar bentonite microcrystalline cellulose sodium carboxymethylcellulose hydroxypropyl methylcellulose tragacanth veegum and combinations thereof . In further embodiments non aerosol formulations for inhalation may comprise dry powder formulations particularly insufflations in which the powder has an average particle size of from about 0.1 m to about 50 m e.g. from about 1 m to about 25 m.

For administration by inhalation the compounds for use according to the present invention may be conveniently delivered in the form of an aerosol spray presentation from pressurized packs or a nebulizer with the use of a suitable propellant e.g. dichlorodifluoromethane trichlorofluoromethane dichlorotetrafluoroethane carbon dioxide or other suitable gas. In the case of a pressurized aerosol the dosage unit may be determined by providing a valve to deliver a metered amount. Capsules and cartridges of e.g. gelatin for use in an inhaler or insufflator may be formulated containing a powder mix of the compound and a suitable powder base such as lactose or starch.

In some embodiments the compositions may be administered using topical administration. Topical formulations can be in any form suitable for application to the body surface and may comprise for example an ointment cream gel lotion solution paste or the like and or may be prepared so as to contain liposomes micelles and or microspheres. In certain embodiments topical formulations herein may be ointments creams or gels.

In some embodiments the compositions may be administered using transdermal administration. Transdermal administration involves the delivery of pharmaceutical compounds via percutaneous passage of the compound into the systemic circulation of the patient. Topical administration can also involve the use of transdermal administration such as transdermal patches or iontophoresis devices. Other components can be incorporated into the transdermal patches as well. For example compositions and or transdermal patches may be formulated with one or more preservatives or bacteriostatic agents including but not limited to methyl hydroxybenzoate propyl hydroxybenzoate chlorocresol benzalkonium chloride and the like. Dosage forms for topical administration of the compounds and compositions may include creams sprays lotions gels ointments eye drops nose drops ear drops and the like. In some embodiments the composition may be mixed to form white smooth homogeneous opaque cream or lotion with for example benzyl alcohol 1 or 2 wt wt as a preservative emulsifying wax glycerin isopropyl palmitate lactic acid purified water and sorbitol solution. In addition in certain embodiments the compositions may contain polyethylene glycol 400. Such ingredients may be mixed to form ointments with for example benzyl alcohol 2 wt wt as preservative white petrolatum emulsifying wax and tenox II butylated hydroxyanisole propyl gallate citric acid propylene glycol . Woven pads or rolls of bandaging material e.g. gauze can be impregnated with the compositions in solution lotion cream ointment or other such form can also be used for topical application.

In some embodiments the composition may also be applied topically using a transdermal system such as without limitation one of an acrylic based polymer adhesive with a resinous crosslinking agent impregnated with the composition and laminated to an impermeable backing. Examples of suitable skin contact adhesive materials include but are not limited to polyethylenes polysiloxanes polyisobutylenes polyacrylates polyurethanes and the like. Alternatively the drug containing reservoir and skin contact adhesive are separate and distinct layers with the adhesive underlying the reservoir that in this case may be either a polymeric matrix as described above or be a liquid or hydrogel reservoir or take some other form.

In transdermal administration the compounds of the present invention for example can be applied to a plaster or can be applied by transdermal therapeutic systems that are consequently supplied to the organism.

In some embodiments the composition may be administered using intravesical administration. The term intravesical administration is used herein in its conventional sense to mean delivery of a drug directly into the bladder. Suitable methods for intravesical administration can be found for example in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 207 180 and 6 039 967.

With regard to transurethal administration the composition may comprise a urethral dosage form containing the active agent and one or more selected carriers or excipients such as water silicone waxes petroleum jelly polyethylene glycol PEG propylene glycol PG liposomes sugars such as mannitol and lactose and or a variety of other materials. A transurethral permeation enhancer can be included in the dosage from. Examples of suitable permeation enhancers include dimethylsulfoxide DMSO dimethyl formamide DMF N N dimethylacetamide DMA decylmethylsulfoxide C10 MSO polyethylene glycol monolaurate PEGML glycerol monolaurate lecithin the 1 substituted azacycloheptan 2 ones particularly 1 n dodecyl cyclazacycloheptan 2 one available under the trademark Azone from Nelson Research Development Co. Irvine Calif. SEPA available from Macrochem Co. Lexington Mass. surfactants as discussed above including for example Tergitol Nonoxyno1 9 and TWEEN 80 and lower alkanols such as ethanol.

Transmucosal administration may be carried out using any type of formulation or dosage unit suitable for application to mucosal tissue. For example the selected active agent may be administered to the buccal mucosa in an adhesive tablet or patch sublingually administered by placing a solid dosage form under the tongue lingually administered by placing a solid dosage form on the tongue administered nasally as droplets or a nasal spray administered by inhalation of an aerosol formulation a non aerosol liquid formulation or a dry powder placed within or near the rectum transrectal formulations or administered to the urethra as a suppository ointment or the like.

Transrectal dosage forms may include rectal suppositories creams ointments and liquid formulations enemas . The suppository cream ointment or liquid formulation for transrectal delivery comprises a therapeutically effective amount of the selected active agent and one or more conventional nontoxic carriers suitable for transrectal drug administration. The transrectal dosage forms of the present invention can be manufactured using conventional processes. The transrectal dosage unit can be fabricated to disintegrate rapidly or over a period of several hours. The time period for complete disintegration may be in the range of from about 10 minutes to about 6 hours e.g. less than about 3 hours.

The compounds of the present invention may also be formulated in rectal compositions such as suppositories or retention enemas e.g. containing conventional suppository bases such as cocoa butter or other glycerides.

In addition to the formulations described previously the compounds of the present invention can also be formulated as a depot preparation. Such long acting formulations can be administered by implantation for example subcutaneously or intramuscularly or by intramuscular injection.

In some embodiments depot injections may be administered at about 1 to about 6 months or longer intervals. Thus for example the compounds may be formulated with suitable polymeric or hydrophobic materials for example as an emulsion in an acceptable oil or ion exchange resins or as sparingly soluble derivatives for example as a sparingly soluble salt.

Pharmaceutical compositions that are useful in the methods used in the practice of the invention may be prepared in formulations suitable for oral rectal intracisternal intravaginal intraperitoneal or local or another route of administration. Other contemplated formulations include projected nanoparticles liposomal preparations resealed erythrocytes containing the active ingredient and immunologically based formulations.

The formulations of the pharmaceutical compositions described herein may be prepared by any method known or hereafter developed in the art of pharmacology. In embodiments such preparatory methods include the step of bringing the active ingredient into association with a carrier or one or more other accessory ingredients and then if necessary or desirable shaping or packaging the product into a desired single or multi dose unit. Controlled or sustained release formulations of a pharmaceutical composition used in the practice of the invention may be made using conventional technology.

In certain embodiments the formulations of the present invention can be but are not limited to short term release or rapid offset release as well as controlled release for example sustained release delayed release and pulsatile release formulations. As used herein the term short term release or rapid offset release is used in its conventional sense to refer to a drug formulation that provides for release of the drug immediately after drug administration. In some embodiments short term or rapid offset may refer to any period of time up to and including about 8 hours about 7 hours about 6 hours about 5 hours about 4 hours about 3 hours about 2 hours about 1 hour about 40 minutes about 20 minutes or about 10 minutes or any combination thereof after drug administration.

In an embodiment the compositions or compounds of embodiments herein may be administered to a subject alone or in combination with another pharmaceutical agent using a sustained release formulation. As used herein the term sustained release is used in its conventional sense to refer to a drug formulation that provides for gradual release of a drug over an extended period of time and that may although not necessarily result in substantially constant blood levels of a drug over an extended time period. The period of time may be as long as a month or more and may be longer than the time required for the release of the same amount of agent administered in bolus form. For sustained release the compounds may be formulated with a suitable polymer or hydrophobic material that provides sustained release properties to the compounds. As such the compounds of the invention may be administered in the form of microparticles for example by injection or in the form of wafers or discs by implantation.

In an embodiment the compositions or compounds of embodiments herein may be administered to a subject alone or in combination with another pharmaceutical agent using a delayed release formulation. As used herein the term delayed release is used in its conventional sense to refer to a drug formulation that provides for an initial release of the drug after some delay following drug administration and that may although not necessarily include a delay of from about 10 minutes up to about 12 hours.

In an embodiment the compositions or compounds of embodiments herein may be administered to a subject alone or in combination with another pharmaceutical agent using a pulsatile release formulation. As used herein the term pulsatile release is used in its conventional sense to refer to a drug formulation that provides release of the drug in such a way as to produce pulsed plasma profiles of the drug after drug administration.

In embodiments the formulations of embodiments described herein may comprise additional ingredients. As used herein additional ingredients include but are not limited to one or more of the following excipients surface active agents dispersing agents inert diluents granulating and disintegrating agents binding agents lubricating agents sweetening agents flavoring agents coloring agents preservatives physiologically degradable compositions such as gelatin aqueous vehicles and solvents oily vehicles and solvents suspending agents dispersing or wetting agents emulsifying agents demulcents buffers salts thickening agents fillers emulsifying agents antioxidants antibiotics antifungal agents stabilizing agents and pharmaceutically acceptable polymeric or hydrophobic materials. Other additional ingredients that may be included in the pharmaceutical compositions used in the practice of the invention are known in the art and described for example in Remington s Pharmaceutical Sciences Genaro Ed. Mack Publishing Co. 1985 Easton Pa. which is incorporated herein by reference.

In another aspect the compound of Formula I may be formulated using one or more pharmaceutically acceptable excipients selected from starch sugar cellulose diluent granulating agent lubricant binder disintegrating agent wetting agent emulsifier coloring agent release agent coating agent sweetening agent flavoring agent perfuming agent preservative antioxidant plasticizer gelling agent thickener hardener setting agent suspending agent surfactant humectant carrier stabilizer or any combinations thereof.

In some embodiments the disintegrant component comprises one or more of croscarmellose sodium carmellose calcium crospovidone alginic acid sodium alginate potassium alginate calcium alginate an ion exchange resin an effervescent system based on food acids and an alkaline carbonate component clay talc starch pregelatinized starch sodium starch glycolate cellulose floc carboxymethylcellulose hydroxypropylcellulose calcium silicate a metal carbonate sodium bicarbonate calcium citrate or calcium phosphate.

In some embodiments the diluent component comprises one or more of mannitol lactose sucrose maltodextrin sorbitol xylitol powdered cellulose microcrystalline cellulose carboxymethylcellulose carboxyethylcellulose methylcellulose ethylcellulose hydroxyethylcellulose methylhydroxyethylcellulose starch sodium starch glycolate pregelatinized starch a calcium phosphate a metal carbonate a metal oxide or a metal aluminosilicate.

In some embodiments the optional lubricant component when present comprises one or more of stearic acid metallic stearate sodium stearylfumarate fatty acid fatty alcohol fatty acid ester glycerylbehenate mineral oil vegetable oil paraffin leucine silica silicic acid talc propylene glycol fatty acid ester polyethoxylated castor oil polyethylene glycol polypropylene glycol polyalkylene glycol polyoxyethylene glycerol fatty ester polyoxyethylene fatty alcohol ether polyethoxylated sterol polyethoxylated castor oil polyethoxylated vegetable oil or sodium chloride.

Embodiments herein also include a kit comprising at least one of the components described above for performing a method of the invention. According to one embodiment a kit may comprise a carrier a compound having a structure of Formula I and a dispenser. In some embodiments the dispenser may be selected from a dropper pipette tips wipes spray Q tips needle syringe. In some embodiments the kit aids in the treatment of lipid disorders.

The kit may be single use only in which case a single kit is sufficient for the treatment of the disease or disorder. Alternatively the kit may comprise one or more combination of molecules compounds factors agents or the like mentioned above and may comprise multiple single use containers. In some embodiments the kit is configured in manner that minimizes steps or negates the need for dilutions weighing or measurements to be performed by a care taker i.e. doctor nurse surgeon etc or a subject. In some embodiments a container may be any sealed or re sealable vessel suitable for carrying a quantity of treatment. Examples include but are not limited to screw cap vials push cap vials break seal to open vials or syringes. In some embodiments the kits may comprise the stated items or combinations of items packaging materials instructions and combinations thereof.

In another embodiment a kit comprises a dispenser composition or other components to treat the disease or disorder. Optionally the kit may comprise instructions for composition preparation and other accessories including but not limited to a delivery vehicle and carriers for the treatment of the disease or disorder. In embodiments the kit may include printed instructions for administering the composition to a subject undergoing treatment according to a dosing regimen. In some embodiments the dosing regimen contains a period during which preferred dosages are adjusted to deliver an amount of said compound sufficient to maintain a target local tissue level or whole blood. In other embodiments the kit may comprise the composition in dosage units suitable for use in the methods described herein.

In embodiments the pharmaceutical compositions of the invention may be dispensed to the subject under treatment with the help of an applicator. The applicator to be used may depend on the specific medical condition being treated amount and physical status of the pharmaceutical composition and choice of those skilled in the art.

This invention and embodiments illustrating the method and materials used may be further understood by reference to the following non limiting examples.

A study was conducted to evaluate toxicity in monkeys with HPI 363 at doses of 0.05 to 5 mg kg. The compound was administered as a slow IV push over 20 to 30 seconds. Six animals 3 males and 3 females approximately 2 years old and weighing 2.1 2.5 kilograms were dosed once daily for 14 days. Blood chemistry was collected on Days 1 15. Evaluation of serum chemistry revealed a dose dependent effect on cholesterol and triglycerides. A reduction of 27 40 in levels of cholesterol and triglycerides respectively from pre dose was observed over 15 days. The lipid lowering effect occurred within a 12 hr period. There was a transient rise of liver enzymes in the animals which normalized within the 15 days of the study.

Male Sprague Dawley SD Harlan Laboratories rats 210 220 g at initiation of experiments and genetically obese Zucker fa fa ZF Harlan Laboratories rats 210 220 g at initiation of experiments were housed individually under a 12 h 12 h light dark schedule lights on at 7 00 AM . All compound administration animal and food weighing were performed between noon and 1 PM during the light phase of the animals circadian illumination schedule . Each rat was provided standard rat chow and water ad libitum throughout the experiments.

Each animal received either 1 mg kg HPI 363 dissolved in saline IV Treated or saline Vehicle or Untreated for ten consecutive days followed by daily injections of saline for ten additional days. At the start of the experiment each animal was weighed and single housed with rat chow and water with subsequent weighing occurring at 24 hr increments for 20 days. For food intake 100 g of rat chow was placed in each animal s hopper and leftover chow in the hopper was collected and weighed every 24 hr for 20 days at the time of animal weighing. Chow was then replenished to 100 g each day. As a monitor of the general health of the animals rats were observed twice daily. No deviations from normal affect were noted.

The time course body weights of SD and ZF rats for 20 days with IV injection of either saline vehicle or HPI 363 Treated are shown in . Administration of HPI 363 resulted in an inhibition of weight gain in both SD and ZF rats Days 1 10 which is maintained after cessation of compound Days 11 20 .

The data for weight change and food consumption over the course of the experiments for both SD and ZF rats are compiled in Table 1. Significant inhibition of weight increases were seen with administration of HPI 363 in both types of animals through Days 1 10 which appears to correlate with decreased food intake. After cessation of HPI 363 administration Days 11 20 both weight gain and food consumption returned to normal for both types of rats however the difference in weight gain between SD and ZF rats was maintained.

Although the present invention has been described in considerable detail with reference to certain preferred embodiments thereof other versions are possible. Therefore the spirit and scope of the appended claims should not be limited to the description and the preferred versions contained within this specification.

