---

title: Maritime autonomous station keeping (MASK)
abstract: Technology for determining a point-to-point separation between a first ship (e.g., guide ship) and a second ship (e.g., following ship) is disclosed. One approach can include maritime autonomous station keeping (MASK) interactive device comprising a communication module and a processor. The communication module can be configured to receive a following ship reference point (SRP) generated by at least one differential global positioning system (DGPS) receiver on a following ship relative to a guide SRP generated by at least one DGPS receiver on a guide ship. The processor can be configured to generate a plurality of fixed following reference edge points (REPs) relative to the following SRP representing a following ship hull, generate a plurality of fixed guide REPs relative to the guide SRP representing a guide ship hull, and monitor a plurality of distances between the plurality of following REPs and the plurality of guide REPs.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09430947&OS=09430947&RS=09430947
owner: Raytheon Company
number: 09430947
owner_city: Waltham
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121107
---
Satellite navigation systems such as the global positioning system GPS enable a receiver to determine a location from ranging signals received from a plurality of satellites. The ranging signals can be broadcasted on frequencies such as the L1 signal 1.57542 gigahertz GHz and or L2 signal 1.2276 GHz . L1 can have a wavelength of about 19 centimeters cm and L2 can have a wavelength of about 24 cm. Position can be determined from code and or carrier phase information. A code division multiple access CDMA code is transmitted by the GPS satellites to the receiver and correlated with replica codes to determine ranges to different satellites. Accuracy can be enhanced using real time kinematic RTK processing of carrier phase information. Accuracy at the level of tens of centimeters is possible with RTK carrier phase integer ambiguity resolution. RTK carrier phase integer ambiguity resolution can be used in applications with very accurate positional location information requirements and high integrity requirements.

High accuracy relative positioning data with minimally acceptable integrity levels provided by RTK processing can be used in land surveying precision agriculture and or construction applications. In other applications such as those that present a substantial risk to human life precision positioning with both high accuracy and high integrity is desirable. For example applications that involve landing an aircraft mid air refueling or coordinated formation flights can use a RTK positioning technique that is both highly accurate and also provides a high integrity level e.g. high integrity protection level .

Reference will now be made to the exemplary embodiments illustrated and specific language will be used herein to describe the same. It will nevertheless be understood that no limitation of the scope of the invention is thereby intended.

Before the present invention is disclosed and described it is to be understood that this invention is not limited to the particular structures process steps or materials disclosed herein but is extended to equivalents thereof as would be recognized by those ordinarily skilled in the relevant arts. It should also be understood that terminology employed herein is used for the purpose of describing particular examples only and is not intended to be limiting. The same reference numerals in different drawings represent the same element. Numbers provided in flow charts and processes are provided for clarity in illustrating steps and operations and do not necessarily indicate a particular order or sequence.

An initial overview of technology embodiments is provided below and then specific technology embodiments are described in further detail later. This initial summary is intended to aid readers in understanding the technology more quickly but is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the technology nor is it intended to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Many maritime operations can require two or more vessels to maintain a predetermined desired relative position to one another for long periods of time such as the underway replenishment UNREP operation used by the United States Navy or the replenishment at sea RAS operation used by North Atlantic Treaty Organization NATO Commonwealth. The UNREP allows a maritime ship or vessel out at sea to periodically resupply and refuel without returning to a port. As used herein the ship or the vessel may be used interchangeably for any maritime vessel or vehicle e.g. submarine or ship . Vessel to vessel station keeping e.g. UNREP can be used to replenish e.g. resupply or refuel a vessel out at sea from another vessel. The UNREP can involve transferring supplies fuel munitions and stores between a resupply vessel and a receiving vessel while underway at sea. The UNREP or alongside connected replenishment CONREP can be a very man intensive and dangerous process with many manual labor processes. For example current practice can include deck crews to man a physical distance line with marker flags strung between the two ships to maintain distance between the ships which can be a very dangerous error prone and man intensive task.

In the UNREP or other vessel to vessel station keeping a following ship can adjust a course and speed to a guide ship to maintain a constant distance between a guide ship transfer station and a following ship transfer station. The guide ship can also be referred to as a control ship. The following ship can also be referred to as a monitor ship or an approach ship. Either the guide ship or the following ship can be a delivery ship a supply ship a receiving ship a customer ship or a transferring ship. The transfer station can be a point on the ship where a cable hose or other mechanism is attached to the ship to transfer fuel or supplies to the other ship. In an example the guide ship can maintain a constant or known course and speed to assist the following ship in maintaining relative distance between the guide ship and the following ship.

The following ship can attempt to maintain both a lateral e.g. right or left and a longitudinal e.g. forward or backward position relative to the guide ship which can be adjusted by the following ship course and speed. Maintaining both a lateral and a longitudinal position by the following ship can be a difficult high intensity task. The station keeping process can be visually intensive for lookout personnel where an engine order to adjust the following ship speed can be determined by visual observation. In a lateral station keeping task a physical distance line e.g. cable or rope with distance marking flags can be stretched across the deck of each vessel to determine a distance between the hulls of the vessels. Anywhere from 5 to 10 sailors i.e. watch stander or deck crew on the deck of each vessel can be used to maintain a physical distance line. The lookout personnel can observe the distance line and make a verbal call to a helmsman to make a course correction. The course correction may occur in increments. In an example the UNREP process can have a duration of approximately 4 hours during which time the bridge crew and deck crew can rotate every 30 minutes. UNREP operation can be one of the most man intensive non emergency tasks at sea. In addition the UNREP can be a high risk error prone operation. Due to the visual nature used to make distance and speed determinations the lookout personnel s perceived proximity can be misleading thus generating errors. For example fore aft e.g. longitudinal deviations can be hard to judge. Fore can refer to the area near the bow or forward part of a vessel. Aft can refer to the area near the stern or tail. The aft can refer to the inside onboard rearmost part of the vessel while stern can refer to the outside offboard rearmost part of the vessel. Fog and weather can obscure a view of the distance line and thus affect the accuracy of the distance between vessels. Verbal calls can be misstated misheard and or missed. Break aways and too close alerts can also be fairly common. Ship hull dynamics can also have an effect such as hydrodynamics which can pull ships together via a Venturi effect which can result in occasional collisions. The Venturi effect can generate a reduction in fluid pressure that results when a fluid flows through a constricted area such as a waterway between vessels. The Venturi effect can be determined mathematically based on the distance between vessels speed of the vessels and depth of the water. Safety hazards during the UNREP operation can include ship collisions and man over board MOB risk to distance line handlers in keeping distance line tension both of which do occur.

Based on the foregoing disclosed and discussed herein is a maritime autonomous station keeping MASK method device and or system to address the aforementioned problems or difficulties with current station keeping practices. Maritime autonomous station keeping can provide a method device and or system for determining a point to point separation between a first ship e.g. guide ship and a second ship e.g. following ship . MASK can provide an automated and accurate vessel to vessel station keeping operation i.e. maintaining a desired relative position using less manpower while underway in the maritime environment. MASK can use a differential GPS DGPS receiver to determine a relative position between a guide ship and following ship.

Relative navigation systems using differential global positioning can have both high accuracy and high integrity. A relative navigation system can use at least two positioning receivers e.g. GPS receivers that move independently from each other or that can vary position relative to each other. A relative navigation system can have a reference platform or reference receiver that may be moving and remote user platforms or user receivers that may also be moving that may generate a relative position to the reference system with high accuracy and integrity. Integrity can be based on a small probability that a relative navigation error could exceed a calculated protection level PL . The reference receiver and the user receiver e.g. user GPS receiver can each include multiple receivers which can provide redundancy for error checking and or fault protection.

In an example the GERAFS approach can provide at least centimeter level positioning accuracy with high integrity suitable for safety critical applications such as station keeping. CP integer ambiguity resolution can be used for high accuracy position determination with high integrity.

In an example the DGPS receiver can be used to generate ship reference point SRP . The SRP can be located at a DGPS receiver location a center of mass location or other predetermined position relative to at least one DGPS receiver. A set of reference edge points REPs representing for example a perimeter of the ship to protect such as the hull of the ship can be generated from the SRP. Each REP in the collection of REPs can be at a fixed predetermine distance from the SRP based on the ship s configuration. In an example a first DGPS receiver can be used with a second GPS receiver e.g. DGPS receiver at a fixed position relative to the DGPS receiver to generate a translation motion and a rotation motion on the SRP and or REPs. In another example the DGPS receiver can be used with an inertial navigation system INS and or inertial measurement units IMU at a fixed position relative to the DGPS receiver to compensate for the translation motion and a rotation motion about an axis on the DGPS receiver SRP and or REPs. The INS can be used to determine the ship dynamics including rotation on the DGPS receiver. The INS can be based on measurements from an IMU that can include a motion sensor an accelerometer a gyrometer a gyroscope a magnetometer a barometer a rotation sensor or a combination of these sensors. The motion of a ship at sea can have the six degrees of freedom of a rigid body which can include three translation motions and three rotation motions. The translation motions can include heaving i.e. moving up or down swaying i.e. moving left or right and surging i.e. moving forward or backward . The rotation motions can include pitching i.e. tilting up or down yawing i.e. turning left or right and rolling i.e. tilting side to side .

In an example the MASK method device and or system can alert a user and or make a course or speed correction when a distance and between a guide REP and a following REP fall outside an acceptable established tolerance e.g. too close or too far away as illustrated in . The course can be a direction or route taken or to be taken. The SRP and or the plurality of REPs can be measured over time to generate a trend which can be used to predict a course and and speed as illustrated in . The movement of REPs can be used to determine the translation and rotation motion of both the guide ship and the following ship which can reduce or eliminate visual distortions and errors in observations used in station keeping.

In another example the plurality of REPs can be used to generate a planar model e.g. 2 dimensional 2 D model or a volumetric model e.g. 3 dimensional 3 D model of the guide ship and following ship. The REPs can be used to generate the volumetric model or a partial volumetric model which can be used to model hull dynamics such as hydrodynamics the Venturi effect and or ocean currents. The model hull dynamics can be used to modify predictions of the course translation direction speed and or rotation of the guide ship and following ship. In addition the MASK method device and or system can use information generated by sensors to measure hull dynamics. For example sensor can measure a sea state current waves and or wind.

MASK can improve maritime relative positioning by applying a high accuracy ship based differential GPS system with high relative positioning accuracy including GERAFS and other technologies to vessel to vessel station keeping. MASK can provide flexibility for fully autonomous station keeping similar to an autopilot including both observability and control or MASK can be used for MASK assisted navigation MAN e.g. assisted station keeping capability for near perfect automated observability to a display that can be used for manual ship control by bridge crew e.g. a conning officer . While fully autonomous station keeping can be more accurate assisted station keeping may be preferred due to concerns over trust in autonomy and preference for a crew to control a ship.

The DGPS receiver used in MASK can provide advantages over other types of station keeping operations such as station keeping based on lasers. Using lasers for station keeping can be problematic because keeping a laser pointed at a desired position on the guide ship can be extremely difficult. In addition large deep cargo openings on some ships can created abrupt changes in a range that are not indicative of a true distance to be maintained so using laser can be even more error prone than using the flags in the manual distance lines.

By using ship based differential GPS technology MASK can provide improved observability near perfect observability and or perfect observability of the relative positioning between vessels which can be an order of magnitude improvement in safety accuracy damage time and or cost over the physical distance line strung between vessels and viewed by an observer to visually read the distance and rate of change from the bridge which can be many yards away. Assisted station keeping can also provide improved observability via a MASK display to a conning officer controlling bridge operations. Both MASK fully autonomous e.g. fully autonomous closed loop follower ship control and assisted solutions can remove the distance line handlers from the decks of both vessels for reduced manning and improved crew safety. MASK can also protect the entire length of both ships hulls through monitoring.

MASK can use relative position difference predictions within a local moving reference frame. Typically systems and or displays can use an absolute position e.g. latitude and longitude with the Earth as the reference frame or to a larger reference frame with the Sun as the reference e.g. for space travel . In an example the MASK system device and or display can place the guide ship as a center of the universe frame of reference and show predictions relative to that frame of reference even as the guide ship moves through a space of the ocean.

Referring back to MASK device and or system can include a display . The display can include various graphical elements that can assist in station keeping or other underway or at sea operations such as an overtake or approach maneuver. In an example the display can include a graphical ship swim lane display graphical ship target plot display a configuration display a ship course and speed display or some variation of the elements in these displays. The display can use various colors or shading to assist and alert a user to make a beneficial decision.

The graphical ship swim lane display can include a target following ship position or indication not shown overlaid on an actual following ship position. The target following ship position can indicate an ideal relative location and orientation between the following ship and the guide ship. The graphical ship swim lane display can indicate the actual following ship course referenced from the following ship and the actual following ship course relative to the target e.g. Romeo guide ship course . The graphical ship swim lane display can indicate a safe region swim lane a caution region swim lane e.g. 10 ft from a target separation and or an alert region swim lane e.g. 20 ft from the target separation . The safe region can indicate a normal distance tolerance for station keeping. The caution region can indicate a distance outside a recommended tolerance for station keeping. The alert region can indicate a distance which can trigger an alert. The alert may notify specified personnel be displayed in alert display of be logged for a performance evaluation of a station keeping operation or trigger automated controls to override manual controls and move the following ship back into the recommended tolerance distance range. In another example other identified regions can be used for various actions or alerts. The graphical ship swim lane display can indicate a guide ship station or perpendicular line from the guide ship transfer station and a following ship station or perpendicular line from the following ship transfer station which can be used for alignment of the ships. The separation between the two lines can be another indicator of a fore or aft deviation. Ideally MASK can be used to adjust the course or speed of the following ship so the guide ship perpendicular line and the following ship perpendicular line can overlay one another. A separation of the guide ship perpendicular line and the following ship perpendicular line beyond a specified tolerance may generate an alert.

Another example provides a method for maintaining distances between hulls of at least two ships on a waterway as shown in the flow chart in . The method may be executed as instructions on a machine where the instructions are included on at least one computer readable medium or one non transitory machine readable storage medium. The method can be used for determining a point to point separation between a first ship e.g. guide ship and a second ship e.g. following ship . The method includes the operation of receiving a following ship reference point SRP on a following ship and a guide SRP on a guide ship via at least one differential global positioning system DGPS receiver as in block . The operation of generating a plurality of fixed following reference edge points REPs relative to the following SRP representing a following ship hull follows as in block . The next operation of the method can be generating a plurality of fixed guide REPs relative to the guide SRP representing a guide ship hull as in block . The method can further include monitoring a plurality of distances between the plurality of following REPs and the plurality of guide REPs as in block .

The method can further include generating an alert when a distance between a following REP and a guide REP falls outside an acceptable range. The method can further include modifying a following ship course or a following ship speed based on the alert. In an example the method can further include displaying the following ship position based on the following REPs relative to the guide ship position based on the guide REPs.

The following ship or the guide ship can include a maritime autonomous station keeping MASK interactive device . The MASK device can be configured to determine a point to point separation between a guide ship and a following ship. The MASK device can include the communication module a processor a display a controller or a ship hull dynamics module . The communication module can be configured for communication with the at least one DGPS receiver on a following ship using a wired connection an optical fiber connection or radio communication. The communication module can be further configured for communication with at least one of an inertial navigation system INS processor or an inertial measurement unit IMU of the following ship at least one of an INS processor or an IMU of the guide ship or at least one GPS receiver e.g. DGPS receiver on the guide ship.

The communication module can be configured to receive a following ship reference point SRP generated by at least one DGPS receiver on a following ship relative to a guide SRP generated by at least one DGPS receiver on a guide ship . The processor can be configured to generate a plurality of fixed following reference edge points REPs relative to the following SRP representing a following ship hull generate a plurality of fixed guide REPs relative to the guide SRP representing a guide ship hull and monitor a plurality of distances between the plurality of following REPs and the plurality of guide REPs.

The display e.g. of can be configured to represent a position of the following ship hull relative to the guide ship hull. The display can include a graphical ship swim lane display e.g. of graphical ship target plot display e.g. of C a configuration display e.g. of D or a ship course and speed display e.g. of E . The display can include at least one of a portable display a shock resistant display a touch screen a function button a cursor control and a brightness control. The graphical ship swim lane display can include The following ship hull relative to the guide ship hull with distance flags from the guide ship hull a predicted following ship position overlaid on an actual following ship position where the predicted following ship position indicates a future relative location and orientation between the following ship and the guide ship a target following ship position overlaid on an actual following ship position where the target following ship position indicates an ideal relative location and orientation between the following ship and the guide ship or an actual separation between the following ship hull and the guide ship hull. The graphical ship target plot display can include A current location of the following ship in a surge direction and a sway direction relative to the guide ship with a gradually fading history of past relative locations a predicted location of the following ship in a surge direction and a sway direction relative to the guide ship a target location to identify a desired relative location between the following ship and the guide ship or a rate of change of the guide ship relative to the following ship in the surge and the sway direction. The configuration display can include information such as a guide ship type a guide ship point e.g. transfer station to align a following ship point e.g. transfer station to align a target separation distance between the guide ship hull and the following ship hull a control setting or an alert. The ship course and speed display can include a following ship course and speed relative to a guide ship target course and a guide ship target speed. A following ship course display or a following ship speed display can include an actual course or speed a recommended course or speed a current order of course or speed or a recent previous history of courses or speeds. A following ship course and a following ship speed can be selected from the recommended course or speed or a user entry course or a user entry speed.

The processor can be further configured to recommend a change in a following ship course or a following ship speed to perform an overtake or approach maneuver or station keep on an intended station. The controller can be configured to modify the following ship course or the following ship speed. The controller can automatically modify the following ship course or the following ship speed based on a recommended course or speed or the controller can modify the following ship course or the following ship speed based on a user input. In an example the processor or the controller can use a proportional integral derivative controller PID controller which can include a generic control loop feedback mechanism or controller used in a control system. The PID controller can calculate an error value as the difference between a measured process variable e.g. a guide ship REP relative to a following ship REP and a desired setpoint e.g. specified distance . The PID controller can attempt to minimize the error by adjusting process control inputs e.g. a following ship course or speed .

The ship hull dynamics module can be configured to estimate a trend of the following ship hull and the guide ship hull using a plurality of following SRP measurements and a plurality of guide SRP measurements measured over time and accounting for ship hull dynamics including a Venturi effect generated by the combination of the motions of the following ship and the guide ship .

In another configuration a maritime autonomous station keeping MASK system can be used for maintaining distances between hulls of at least two ships on a waterway. The MASK system can include at least one differential global positioning system DGPS receiver a processor a radio e.g. communication module an output device e.g. a display a controller an inertial navigation system INS processor or an inertial measurement unit IMU or a second DGPS receiver. The at least one DGPS receiver can provide a following ship reference point SRP on a following ship relative to a guide SRP on a guide ship . The radio can receive the guide SRP from at least one GPS receiver e.g. DGPS receiver on the guide ship. The processor can generate a plurality of fixed following reference edge points REPs relative to the following SRP representing a following ship hull generate a plurality of fixed guide REPs relative to the guide SRP representing a guide ship hull and monitor a plurality of distances between the plurality of following REPs and the plurality of guide REPs.

The output device can generate a position of the following ship hull relative to the guide ship hull for a user. The output device can include a display e.g. screen or monitor a printer a projector an audio device e.g. speaker or a tactile device providing tactile feedback. The output device can include a display to graphically represent the following ship hull and the guide ship hull. The display can include A ship swim lane display a ship target plot display a configuration display or a ship course and speed display e.g. .

The controller can modify the following ship course or the following ship speed. The controller can automatically modify the following ship course or the following ship speed based on a recommended course or speed generated by the processor or the controller can modify the following ship course or the following ship speed based on a user input. The INS processor or the IMU on the following ship can determine the position of the plurality of following REPs based on a motion of the following ship. The second DGPS receiver on the following ship at a fixed distance from the at least one DGPS receiver can determine the position of the plurality of following REPs based on a motion of the following ship. The motion of the following ship can include pitch roll yaw sway heave surge rotation or translation. The at least one DGPS receiver or the second DGPS receiver can generate the following SRP or the guide SRP using measurements for pseudo range PR and carrier phase CP provided by an almost fixed integer ambiguity AFIA module using a geometry extra redundant almost fixed solution GERAFS . The processor can be further configured to estimate a trajectory of the following ship hull and the guide ship hull using a plurality of following SRP measurements and a plurality of guide SRP measurements measured over time. The processor can model a Venturi effect based on the estimated trajectory of the following ship hull and the guide ship hull.

Various techniques or certain aspects or portions thereof may take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives non transitory computer readable storage medium or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the various techniques. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device may include a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. The volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements may be a RAM EPROM flash drive optical drive magnetic hard drive or other medium for storing electronic data. The positioning systems GPS receivers and or monitors may also include a transceiver module a counter module a processing module and or a clock module or timer module. One or more programs that may implement or utilize the various techniques described herein may use an application programming interface API reusable controls and the like. Such programs may be implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s may be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and combined with hardware implementations.

It should be understood that many of the functional units described in this specification have been labeled as modules in order to more particularly emphasize their implementation independence. For example a module may be implemented as a hardware circuit comprising custom VLSI circuits or gate arrays off the shelf semiconductors such as logic chips transistors or other discrete components. A module may also be implemented in programmable hardware devices such as field programmable gate arrays programmable array logic programmable logic devices or the like.

Modules may also be implemented in software for execution by various types of processors. An identified module of executable code may for instance comprise one or more physical or logical blocks of computer instructions which may for instance be organized as an object procedure or function. Nevertheless the executables of an identified module need not be physically located together but may comprise disparate instructions stored in different locations which when joined logically together comprise the module and achieve the stated purpose for the module.

Indeed a module of executable code may be a single instruction or many instructions and may even be distributed over several different code segments among different programs and across several memory devices. Similarly operational data may be identified and illustrated herein within modules and may be embodied in any suitable form and organized within any suitable type of data structure. The operational data may be collected as a single data set or may be distributed over different locations including over different storage devices and may exist at least partially merely as electronic signals on a system or network. The modules may be passive or active including agents operable to perform desired functions.

Reference throughout this specification to an example means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the example is included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. Thus appearances of the phrases in an example in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

As used herein a plurality of items structural elements compositional elements and or materials may be presented in a common list for convenience. However these lists should be construed as though each member of the list is individually identified as a separate and unique member. Thus no individual member of such list should be construed as a de facto equivalent of any other member of the same list solely based on their presentation in a common group without indications to the contrary. In addition various embodiments and example of the present invention may be referred to herein along with alternatives for the various components thereof. It is understood that such embodiments examples and alternatives are not to be construed as defacto equivalents of one another but are to be considered as separate and autonomous representations of the present invention.

Furthermore the described features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments. In the following description numerous specific details are provided such as examples of layouts distances network examples etc. to provide a thorough understanding of embodiments of the invention. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize however that the invention can be practiced without one or more of the specific details or with other methods components layouts etc. In other instances well known structures materials or operations are not shown or described in detail to avoid obscuring aspects of the invention.

While the forgoing examples are illustrative of the principles of the present invention in one or more particular applications it will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that numerous modifications in form usage and details of implementation can be made without the exercise of inventive faculty and without departing from the principles and concepts of the invention. Accordingly it is not intended that the invention be limited except as by the claims set forth below.

