---

title: Low light adaptive imaging device
abstract: Techniques described herein generally relate to digital imaging systems, methods and devices. In some example embodiments, a low light adaptive photoelectric imaging device may include a photoelectric transducer configured to receive and convert incident light into an electric charge that varies in response to an intensity of the received incident light. Some example imaging devices may also include circuitry coupled to the photoelectric transducer and configured to electrically float a potential at one or more terminals of the photoelectric transducer effective to cause the photoelectric transducer to amplify the electric charge according to a gain function that non-linearly varies relative to the intensity of the received incident light.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09210304&OS=09210304&RS=09210304
owner: Empire Technology Development LLC
number: 09210304
owner_city: Wilmington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120316
---
The present application is a national stage filing under 35 U.S.C. 371 of PCT Application No. PCT US12 29431 entitled LOW LIGHT ADAPTIVE IMAGING DEVICE filed on Mar. 16 2012 hereby incorporated by reference therein in its entirety.

Unless otherwise indicated herein the materials described in this section are not prior art to the claims in this application and are not admitted to be prior art by inclusion in this section.

Conventional digital cameras are typically equipped with imaging devices i.e. imaging elements or imaging pixel cells . An imaging device may be implemented as for example a charge coupled device CCD or a complementary metal on silicon CMOS imaging device. A photodiode can directly convert photo carriers generated by light incident on the surface of its semiconductor light receiving element into a current. Such imaging elements are intended to capture images of objects illuminated by light levels that typically range from candle light 10 Lx to direct sunlight 100 000 Lx . When taking images under lower illumination levels such as street lighting 0.1 Lx moonlight 0.01 Lx or starlight 0.0001 Lx some digital cameras may require the use of external lighting or flash units because of poor imaging sensitivity under such low light conditions.

To reduce the size and weight of camera modules for devices such as mobile phones and the like the imaging devices used in such digital cameras have been increasingly miniaturized. The miniaturization reduces the area available for photoelectric conversion. Consequently the efficiency of such imaging devices has been reduced. In addition external lighting or flash units are often necessary to obtain images of acceptable quality even in daytime lighting conditions.

Photodiodes have difficulty adapting to low light levels because among other reasons the signal to noise S N ratio of a photodiode is constant with respect to incident light intensity. The graphs in illustrate the constant S N ratio property of a photodiode s output. More specifically the amount of charge in both an output signal S denoted by a signal line and noise N e.g. thermal noise generated by signal charge fluctuation denoted by a noise line increase in linear proportion to incident light levels.

Phototransistors as opposed to photodiodes may be configured to amplify the output signal S to reduce the need for external lighting or the like and to advantageously reduce the influence of external noise generated by adjacent circuits such as the switching noise generated by driving circuits. Like photodiodes however the graphs of further illustrate the constant S N ratio property of an amplifying phototransistor. The amount of charge in both an output signal S denoted by a signal line and in the noise N denoted by a noise line are linear functions of incident light as are the corresponding lines and of the photodiode. In fact the signal line and the noise line may be obtained from the corresponding lines in by simply moving the signal line and the noise line in vertically to a position that corresponds to the gain .

The human eye can see objects with the help of only dim light such as starlight or moonlight without artificial lighting. The weak or dim light induces dark adaptation in the eye in which the chemical reaction cycle of the photoreceptor molecules rhodopsin contained in rod cells amplifies optical signals. In dark adaptation noise does not become so high that objects cannot be recognized. In other words the S N ratio of optical signals in dim light situations is increased in the eye because the optical signals are amplified in the eye while noise is not amplified. An imaging device that amplifies the S N ratio of optical signals in such a way does not yet exist.

The present disclosure generally relates to low light adaptive photoelectric imaging devices. In some examples devices are described that are adapted to suppress fluctuation noise while amplifying optical signals from objects under low illumination in a manner that is similar to dark adaptation of a human eye. Various examples described herein also generally relate to methods of manufacturing such low light adaptive photoelectric imaging devices.

In a first example embodiment a low light adaptive photoelectric imaging device is described that includes a photoelectric transducer configured to receive and convert incident light into an electric charge that varies in response to an intensity of the received incident light. The example imaging device may also include circuitry coupled to the photoelectric transducer and configured to electrically float a potential at one or more terminals of the photoelectric transducer effective to cause the photoelectric transducer to amplify the electric charge according to a gain function that non linearly varies relative to the intensity of the received incident light.

In a second example embodiment a low light adaptive imaging apparatus configured to produce an image is described that includes a plurality of instances of the foregoing imaging device of the first example embodiment. The imaging devices may be arranged in an array including rows and columns each imaging device corresponding to an image pixel. The imaging apparatus may further include vertical scan circuitry configured to selectively activate each individual row of the low light adaptive photoelectric imaging devices in the array and horizontal scan circuitry configured to selectively sample outputs of each individual column of low light adaptive photoelectric imaging devices for the low light adaptive photoelectric imaging devices that are activated by the vertical scan circuitry.

In a third example embodiment a low light adaptive photoelectric imaging device is described that includes a phototransistor having an intrinsic gate an extrinsic gate and a drain. The intrinsic gate may be formed in an intrinsic semiconductor material and the extrinsic gate may be formed in an extrinsic semiconductor material. Furthermore the phototransistor may be configured to receive incident light at least at the extrinsic gate and to convert the received incident light into an electric charge that varies responsive to an intensity of the received incident light. In addition the extrinsic gate and the drain may be extrinsically doped such that a depletion capacitance between the intrinsic gate and the drain differs from a depletion capacitance between the intrinsic gate and the extrinsic gate effective to form an electric potential barrier in the phototransistor. Furthermore the electric potential barrier is effective to cause a gain of the phototransistor to non linearly vary responsive to the intensity of the received incident light.

In a fourth example embodiment a low light adaptive photoelectric imaging device is described that includes a semiconductor substrate an extrinsic well formed on the semiconductor substrate and an intrinsic region formed in the extrinsic well. The imaging device may further include a source located within the intrinsic region and doped as a first polarity type of semiconductor material a drain located within the intrinsic region and doped as the first polarity type of semiconductor material and a light sensitive gate doped as a second polarity type of semiconductor material that differs from the first polarity type of semiconductor material. The light sensitive gate may be located within the intrinsic region with at least a portion of the light sensitive gate extending between the source and drain. In addition the drain and light sensitive gate may be doped to facilitate formation of a depletion capacitance between the intrinsic region and the drain that differs from a depletion capacitance between the intrinsic region and the light sensitive gate such that an electric potential barrier is formed during operation of the imaging device. Furthermore the electric potential barrier may be effective to cause a gain of the photoelectric imaging device to non linearly vary responsive to an incident light intensity.

In a fifth example embodiment a low light adaptive imaging apparatus configured to produce an image is described that includes a plurality of instances of the photoelectric imaging device of the fourth example embodiment. The imaging devices may be arranged in an array including rows and columns each imaging device corresponding to an image pixel. The imaging apparatus may further include vertical scan circuitry configured to selectively activate each individual row of the low light adaptive photoelectric imaging devices in the array and horizontal scan circuitry configured to selectively sample outputs of each individual column of low light adaptive photoelectric imaging devices for the low light adaptive photoelectric imaging devices that are activated by the vertical scan circuitry.

In a sixth example embodiment a method of manufacturing a low light adaptive photoelectric imaging device is described that includes forming an extrinsic well in a semiconductor substrate forming an intrinsic region in the extrinsic well forming a source by doping a first portion of the intrinsic region as a first polarity type of semiconductor material forming a drain by doping a second portion of the intrinsic region as the first polarity type of semiconductor material and forming a light sensitive gate by doping a third portion of the intrinsic region as a second polarity type of semiconductor material. The light sensitive gate may be formed such that at least a portion thereof is located between the source and the drain. The drain and light sensitive gate of the phototransistor may be doped to facilitate formation of a depletion capacitance between the intrinsic region and the drain that differs from a depletion capacitance between the intrinsic region and the light sensitive gate such that an electric potential barrier is formed during operation of the imaging device. In addition the electric potential barrier may be effective to cause a gain of the photoelectric imaging device to non linearly vary responsive to an incident light intensity.

The foregoing summary is illustrative only and is not intended to be in any way limiting. In addition to the illustrative aspects embodiments and features described above further aspects embodiments and features will become apparent by reference to the drawings and the following detailed description.

In the following detailed description reference is made to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof. In the drawings similar symbols typically identify similar components unless context dictates otherwise. The illustrative embodiments described in the detailed description drawings and claims are not meant to be limiting. Other embodiments may be utilized and other changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the subject matter presented herein. It will be readily understood that the aspects of the present disclosure as generally described herein and illustrated in the figures can be arranged substituted combined separated and designed in a wide variety of different configurations all of which are explicitly contemplated herein.

This disclosure is generally drawn inter alia to systems methods and apparatus related to digital imaging. More specifically embodiments of the present disclosure relate to digital imaging devices that employ various described techniques to adapt their gain for low light conditions.

Briefly stated techniques described herein generally relate to digital imaging systems methods and devices. In some example embodiments a low light adaptive photoelectric imaging device may include a photoelectric transducer configured to receive and convert incident light into an electric charge that varies in response to an intensity of the received incident light. Some example imaging devices may also include circuitry coupled to the photoelectric transducer and configured to electrically float a potential at one or more terminals of the photoelectric transducer effective to cause the photoelectric transducer to amplify the electric charge according to a gain function that non linearly varies relative to the intensity of the received incident light.

Some embodiments disclosed herein may relate to photoelectric imaging devices and methods of manufacturing same. Embodiments include a new phototransistor in a photoelectric imaging device. The photoelectric imaging device arranged in accordance with some embodiments may adapt to low levels of light by applying a gain function that non linearly varies relative to an incident light intensity. As further discussed in detail below the non linearity of the gain function can be achieved by setting an amplifying phototransistor of the photoelectric imaging device in a non equilibrated state.

Some example uses for a low light adaptive photoelectric imaging device is in an imaging apparatus or camera configured for acquiring images of various types and formats including still images and videos. Monitoring cameras and phone cameras for example have become increasingly miniaturized. However miniaturization has lead to decreased light sensitivity which can be very problematic in low light conditions. Embodiments of a low light adaptive photoelectric imaging device described below can facilitate increased miniaturization without sacrificing sensitivity and are therefore well suited for use in ultra compact imaging apparatuses including ultra compact video cameras and ultra compact still cameras. Moreover the increased sensitivity of such low light adaptive photoelectric imaging devices can facilitate flexibility in setting vertical and horizontal blanking intervals when used with a television scanning system which implements line sequential imaging. Notably such low light adaptive photoelectric imaging devices are not limited to use in an imaging apparatus but may be used in any application in which a small imaging device is desirable but that does not sacrifice sensitivity.

Embodiments of the disclosure can prevent an output signal from exceeding the dynamic range of an imaging apparatus when amplifying under high illumination. In addition the amplification gain can be non linear at low illumination. The non linear amplification for example at low illumination levels controls charge fluctuations generated by photoelectric conversion and suppresses noise.

The imaging apparatus as described in more detail below includes a photoelectric conversion imaging device that includes transistor elements including one or more gates an intrinsic gate one or more drains and one or more sources. The accumulation of electrical charge obtained by photoelectrically converting incident light occurs when both the drain potential and the gate potential are floating for example disconnected from a voltage. In contrast conventional phototransistors are designed to keep the potential of the gate and of the drain constant. Embodiments relate to a new phototransistor included in the photoelectric conversion imaging device .

The various described functions may enable the operation of the imaging apparatus in low light conditions without the use of an external light source.

Some example imaging apparatuses like the imaging apparatus may be controlled by a controller processor or the like. The imaging apparatus may include a two dimensional array of imaging devices . Each imaging device may correspond to a pixel of an image produced by the array of imaging devices . Moreover each imaging device may include a photoelectric conversion imaging device and a signal detection section .

The photoelectric conversion imaging device can be configured to amplify in a non linear and or non equilibrated manner. The photoelectric conversion imaging device can amplify carriers corresponding to photocarriers generated by incident light. The photoelectric conversion imaging device can store amplified charges. A charge storage section electrically floats while accumulating charge and reduces the charge gain according to a decreased voltage of the charge storage section caused by increased carriers stored therein. In one example the charge storage section electrically floats by cutting off an applied voltage and the charge accumulates while the charge storage section electrically floats.

The signal detection section may include an amplifier including a pair of transistors and arranged in a cascade series configuration with a source terminal which is connected to power and a transistor switch that is coupled between a gate and source of the transistor . The switch can enable the signal detection section to be read by the photoelectric conversion imaging device . The switch may also be used to supply power to the photoelectric conversion imaging device .

An output of the photoelectric conversion imaging device can be coupled to a gate of the transistor in the signal detection section . The signal detection section is adaptively e.g. based on the operation of switch configured to amplify the input to the transistor and the amplified signal can be read as an output.

More specifically the imaging apparatus may include vertical scan circuitry and horizontal scan circuitry which may be controlled or operated by a controller that is operatively connected with the imaging apparatus or integral therewith. The vertical scan circuitry can be configured to selectively activate each individual row of imaging devices in the two dimensional array. The horizontal scan circuitry can be configured to selectively sample outputs of each individual column of imaging devices for the low light adaptive photoelectric imaging devices that are activated by the vertical scan circuitry.

The imaging apparatus may include vertical scan circuitry vertical scanning control lines and vertical signal lines . The imaging apparatus may include the horizontal scan circuitry horizontal scanning control lines horizontal scanning switches dedicated analog to digital converter ADC circuits dedicated correlated double sampling CDS circuits and an amplifier circuit . A stream of pixel signals output by amplifier circuit may represent an image that can be recorded in a memory.

To produce a stream of pixel signals vertical scanning control circuitry may be configured to sequentially activate rows of imaging devices while horizontal scanning control circuitry may be configured to sequentially activate horizontal scanning switches for each activated row. For example vertical scanning control circuitry is configured to activate a row of imaging devices by activating a corresponding one of the vertical scanning control lines each of which may be coupled to a row of imaging devices . When a particular row of imaging devices is activated each photoelectric conversion imaging device in the activated row can be configured to be activated to produce a signal e.g. a voltage or current representing a detected light intensity level corresponding to a pixel. A pixel signal may be output to signal detection section and amplified by transistors and of signal detection section . The amplified pixel signal produced by each signal detection section may be output to a corresponding one of vertical signal lines where the amplified pixel signal may be fed to a corresponding one of CDS devices . Each CDS device can be configured to remove fixed pattern noise generated by signal detection section . The output of each CDS device may then be fed to a corresponding one of ADCs for conversion to a digital pixel signal .

Horizontal scanning control circuitry may be adapted for example by the controller to sequentially activate horizontal scanning switches e.g. in a left most toward right most order to sample outputs of ADCs and produce a stream of digital pixel signals representing a row of an image. After the stream of digital pixel signals is fed to amplifier circuit for amplification and or subsequent storage the same steps can be repeated for additional rows of imaging devices e.g. in a top most row to bottom most row sequential order to produce and store additional streams of digital pixel signals representing additional rows of pixels in an image. The foregoing description of the imaging process and scanning circuitry is provided as just one example implementation for obtaining an image. Therefore photoelectric conversion imaging device is not limited to use with the particular circuitry described above and may instead be used in other ways and or with other circuitry.

The switches and may be opened before starting photoelectric conversion which electrically floats the charge amplification section and the charge storage section . In one example a charge is injected from the charge injection section into the charge amplification section as indicated by arrow . The charge amplification section with a gain m moves a charge of m m m m to the charge storage section as indicated by the arrow where the charge is stored.

Advantageously multiplied charge is stored in the charge storage section . As the charge accumulates the voltage of the charge storage section is reduced. The reduction of voltage is feedback to the charge amplification section as shown by the arrow . This feedback results in a decrease in the gain m of the charge amplification section .

As described in more detail herein the new phototransistor can be arranged in different configurations. The amplification process discussed herein can reduce noise. After applying a specified voltage to the photoelectric conversion imaging device the charge storage section and the charge storage section are electrically floated by switching the voltage off. The photoelectric conversion imaging element may then be irradiated with weak light and a signal charge m m which is generated by amplifying the weak light generated photo carriers m by the gain m is injected through a charge injection section to be accumulated in the charge storage section . The larger the voltage between the charge injection section and the charge storage section the larger the gain m .

Because the accumulated signal charge m m in the charge storage section decreases its voltage and also reduces the voltage difference between the charge injection section and the charge storage section an electric potential barrier that controls charge injection of the charge amplification section rises to decrease the charge injection. Although illustrates charge storage section there may be an electron hole storage section and an electron storage section.

In each graph in the horizontal axis represents an incident light intensity. In the vertical axis represents a gain level and curve represents a non linearly varying gain function applied by an example embodiment of a low light adaptive photoelectric imaging device. In the vertical axis represents an amount of charge and a first curve represents an amount of charge in a signal output by the low light adaptive photoelectric imaging device having the gain function represented by a substantially non linear gain curve . A second curve in represents an amount of charge in a signal output by a conventional photoelectric imaging device having a substantially constant gain i.e. linear amplification while a third curve represents an amount of charge generated due to noise in the low light adaptive photoelectric imaging device that applies the non linear gain curve .

As shown in the non linear gain function illustrated by the curve has an inverse relationship with respect to variations of incident light intensity. For example the lower the incident light intensity is the larger the gain is and the higher the incident light intensity is the smaller the gain is. Accordingly a signal output by a low light adaptive photoelectric imaging device that employs the non linear gain function is less likely to exceed a permissible dynamic range when a high illumination signal is input to the device. Moreover the non linearly varying gain function can be utilized to increase an amount of gain applied when low intensity light is input to the device.

The non linear gain function illustrated by curve may be expressed as a function m of a number m of photo carriers generated in response to incident light. A signal charge S in an output signal may be expressed approximately as S m m. A noise charge N may be expressed approximately as N square root over m m which corresponds to noise curve . The S N ratio of the low light adaptive photoelectric imaging device is determined by dividing the signal charge S with the noise charge N which results in S N square root over m m . The functions may also be offset by a constant in some embodiments. At low levels of incident light intensity square root over m is larger than a linear amplification gain constant and the corresponding S N ratio at low levels of incident light intensity is larger than that resulting from linear amplification. For example if m 10 then m 100 and S N 100. Similarly if m 100 S N 30. This demonstrates that the amplification of low intensity light signals is possible while the amplification of noise at low intensity light levels is suppressed or reduced.

The photoelectric conversion imaging device can be arranged in various configurations that include gate regions source regions and drain regions. During photoelectric conversion an intrinsic gate is formed. The intrinsic gate becomes an electric potential barrier that can prevent electrons from flowing. The intrinsic gate can be controlled in one embodiment by electrons and electron holes. In another example the intrinsic gate can be controlled by electron holes. The following discussion illustrates example circuit layouts of a photoelectric conversion imaging device.

More specifically illustrates a cross sectional view from the position of a plane perpendicular to the page and intersecting the circuit layout of at a line y y while illustrates a cross sectional view from the position of a plane perpendicular to the page and intersecting the circuit layout of at a line x x .

As shown in the photoelectric conversion imaging device may include a signal amplifying phototransistor with a source region two gate regions and a drain region among other things. The source gate and drain regions may be formed by doping portions of an intrinsic region to form extrinsic regions of an n or p type of semiconductor material. Intrinsic region may be formed in a p type well which in turn may be formed on an n type substrate . In some embodiments intrinsic region may be constantly depleted due to its relatively low dopant impurity.

In some alternative embodiments such as shown in corresponding to a light masking layer may be formed over the foregoing extrinsic regions and intrinsic region effective to pass incident light to specific regions such as gate regions or portions thereof. Accordingly other regions can be effectively blocked from exposure to incident light by the light masking layer . Blocking incident light may reduce stray noise that may be attributed to the incident light. In this illustrative example gate regions are shown as having substantially the same or similar shape as each other and are bilaterally symmetrical with respect to line x x . However gate regions may differ in shape and or size with respect to each other. Moreover in some embodiments a single gate region may be included in the circuit layout.

Source region is an extrinsic region that may be formed in intrinsic region by heavily doping a portion of intrinsic region with an n type impurity denoted n in . Gate regions may be extrinsic regions formed in intrinsic region . However gate regions may be formed by lightly doping a portion of intrinsic region with a p type impurity denoted p in . Drain region can be another extrinsic region formed in intrinsic region e.g. by moderately doping a portion of intrinsic region with an n type impurity denoted n in .

Source region may be initially biased at a source bias voltage Vs that can be applied to source region . The doping density of source region can be set relatively high and the source bias voltage Vs can be set low enough such that source region is not substantially depleted of carrier electrons during initialization. Moreover an initial gate bias voltage Vg can be applied to gate regions . Gate regions may be doped with a lighter doping density than source region and the initial gate bias voltage Vg may be set low enough depending on how lightly gate regions are doped such that gate regions are substantially depleted of carrier holes during the initializing mode.

In addition an initial drain voltage Vd may be applied to drain region . The initial drain voltage Vd may be set higher than the source bias voltage Vs. Drain region may be doped with a lighter doping density than source region and the initial drain bias voltage Vd may be set high enough depending on how lightly drain region is doped such that drain region is substantially depleted of carrier electrons during the initializing mode.

The source bias voltage Vs and the gate bias Vg may be set effective to reverse bias gate regions with respect to source region and the bias voltages Vs and Vg may be set effective to forward bias drain region with respect to the source region . Accordingly the new phototransistor of photoelectric conversion imaging device may be configured to operate as an n channel depletion mode transistor in which the majority carriers are electrons flowing from source region to drain region .

The gate bias voltage Vg may be applied via selective activation of first and second transistor switches formed by gate regions a corresponding pair of secondary gate regions and a corresponding pair of gate electrodes . Similarly drain bias voltage Vd may be applied via selective activation of a third transistor switch formed by drain region a secondary drain region and a gate electrode . The gate electrode may be biased by a voltage Vnr which may be a forward bias voltage that is larger than bias voltage Vs. Each gate electrode which may be biased by a voltage Vpr which may be reverse biased to Vs may be formed between one of gate regions and a corresponding one of secondary gate regions . Moreover gate electrode may be formed between drain region and secondary drain region . Secondary gate regions may be more heavily doped with the p type impurity denoted p in than gate regions . Similarly secondary drain region may be more heavily doped with the n type impurity denoted n in than drain region .

During initialization gate electrodes and gate electrode may be selectively activated to apply the bias voltages Vg and Vd to corresponding gate and drain regions and respectively. For example vertical scanning control circuitry can control vertical scanning control lines to selectively activate one or more of gate electrodes and during the initializing mode of operation to apply the bias voltages Vg and Vd. Application of the bias voltages Vg and Vd can result in formation of an intrinsic gate within intrinsic region at a cross point of line x x and line y y .

When the source bias voltage Vs is applied to source region and a forward bias voltage corresponding to the drain bias voltage Vd is applied to secondary drain region intrinsic gate and a corresponding electric potential barrier has not yet been formed. The absence of the electric potential barrier is illustrated by a first set of conductive and valence energy band curves in . Subsequently a backward bias voltage corresponding to the gate bias voltage Vg is applied to gate regions and consequently curves change to a second set of curves in thereby forming the electric potential barrier of intrinsic gate . Also a first set of conductive and valence energy band curves along the y y cross section shown in illustrate the Ids channel formed between gate regions when the gate bias voltage Vg is applied to the gate region .

The electric potential barrier can restrict the flow of electrons from source region to drain region thereby restricting an amount of the drain to source current Ids in proportion to incident light intensity on the photoelectric conversion imaging device . The electric potential barrier may vary its restriction on the flow of electrons in dependence on incident light intensity in accordance with non linear gain curve in .

When the gate bias voltage Vg and drain bias voltage Vd are applied a first depletion region can be formed between intrinsic gate and gate regions and a second depletion region can be formed between intrinsic gate and drain region . Moreover the first depletion region has an associated depletion capacitance Cand the second depletion region has an associated depletion capacitance C as shown in . Depletion capacitance Cmay have a value that is determined by an amount of holes associated with the gate regions . The amount of holes may depend on the doping density of gate regions . Similarly depletion capacitance Cmay have a value that is determined by an amount of electrons associated with the drain region which depends on the doping density of drain region .

Dopant concentration levels and the geometries of gate regions and drain region are configured so that the value of depletion capacitance Cof gate regions is less than the value of depletion capacitance Cof drain region . Moreover an intrinsic gate voltage Vg can be determined based on the values of depletion capacitances Cand C.

During amplification gate electrodes and may be de activated in response to various control signals to allow voltage levels at drain region and gate regions to float. As will be illustrated in further detail below with reference to the gate regions and drain region may store positive and negative charge respectively at low intensity levels of incident light. In electrical charge accumulates in the gate photoelectric conversion region and in the drain photoelectric conversion region . The accumulated charge however can be different. For example photons incident in the gate region generate electron holes. Photons incident in the drain region also generate corresponding electron holes. However due to the amplification effects for a given amplification rate e.g. amplification rate m from the intrinsic region electrons in the number of m fold of the electron holes flow from the source region to the drain region. As a result electrons accumulate in the drain region.

The balance between the positive and negative charge is illustrated by the energy band curves in a top portion of and . Since a value of depletion capacitance Cis less than a value of depletion capacitance C the electron energy band curves in may change while the hole energy band curves may change to curves . Consequently the electric potential of intrinsic gate can decrease resulting in a relatively high flow of electrons from source region to drain region and resulting in a correspondingly high drain to source current Ids. The flow of the drain to source current Ids is shown in a bottom portion of and .

As incident light intensity increases on the photoelectric conversion imaging device the electric potential barrier increases and the gain decreases because the depletion capacitance Cis able to store more charge than the depletion capacitance C. The decrease in gain corresponds to the non linear gain function illustrated in . The decreased gain and increased electric potential barrier at high levels of incident light intensity are illustrated in by the electron energy band curves changing to curves . Consequently the electric potential of intrinsic gate may rise to suppress the flow of electrons from source region to drain region and the amplification of a signal charge corresponding to high intensity light can eventually decrease.

The growth of the electric potential barrier in response to increased light intensity is illustrated graphically by a set of simulated electric potential diagrams in . shows a state of electric potential levels in the photoelectric conversion imaging device prior to exposure of incident light to the photoelectric conversion imaging device that is arranged in accordance with at least some examples described herein. depicts a state of electric potential levels in the photoelectric conversion imaging device in which low intensity light becomes incident on the photoelectric conversion imaging device that is arranged in accordance with at least some examples described herein. depicts a state of electric potential levels in the photoelectric conversion imaging device in which moderate intensity light becomes incident on the photoelectric conversion imaging device that is arranged in accordance with at least some examples described herein. depicts a state of electric potential levels in the photoelectric conversion imaging device in which high intensity light is incident on the photoelectric conversion imaging device that is arranged in accordance with at least some examples described herein.

More specifically depicts a first state of electric potential levels in the phototransistor of photoelectric conversion imaging device in which drain region and gate regions have been charged and are then floated but prior to exposure of incident light on the photoelectric conversion imaging device. Electric potentials and at source region gate regions and drain region respectively can be adjusted effective to form the electric potential barrier that suppresses the flow of electrons from source region to drain region . Moreover electric potential can initially be set in correspondence to a hole electric potential in secondary gate regions by activation of gate electrodes . Similarly electric potential can initially be set in correspondence to an electron electric potential in secondary drain region by activation of gate electrode . Electric potentials and of gate regions and drain region respectively are then floated by de activating their corresponding electrodes. Electric potential of gate regions is shown in a simplified manner however for purposes of explaining how hole accumulation influences an electric potential of intrinsic gate . 

Prior to photoelectric conversion of incident light a pair of first and second switches and corresponding to gate electrodes and respectively can be selectively activated i.e. closed or operated in a closed circuit position by an external controller. When activated first switch is effective to couple an electric potential from a first power supply to first charge storage section . Similarly second switch when activated is effective to couple an electric potential from a second power supply to second charge storage section . First and second switches and can be selectively de activated i.e. opened or operated in an open circuit position to electrically float first and second charge storage sections and .

Then when light is incident on gate regions of the phototransistor photo carriers can be generated by a photoelectric conversion process and consequently a charge m can be injected from charge injection section to charge amplification section as indicated by a first arrow . Charge amplification section is configured to amplify the charge m by a factor m that is a function of the charge m and the amplified charge may be stored in second charge storage section as indicated by a second arrow . More specifically incident photons e.g. m photons on the gate regions are photoelectrically converted by the gate regions . Electron holes m electron holes are accumulated in the first charge storage section . In the charge amplification section which is operable to realize amplification effects by the intrinsic gate electrons in a number of m flow from the source regions or the charge injection section to the drain regions or the second charge storage section . This feedback from second charge storage section to charge amplification section is conceptually represented in by a third arrow .

As noted above the amplification factor m of charge amplification section may depend at least in part on the electric potential of second charge storage section . More specifically the amplification factor m causally depends on the electric potential difference between the charge injection section and the second charge storage section . The closer the electrical potential of second charge storage section is to that of charge injection section the smaller the electric potential difference will be and accordingly the smaller the amplification factor m will be. Similarly the larger the electric potential difference is the larger the amplification factor m will be. Therefore if incident light intensity is low the charge stored in second charge storage section will be low and the amplification factor m will be higher than if the incident light intensity were high and vice a versa.

The non linear and non equilibrated drop of gain due to the electrical floating condition may be termed a sudden braking effect due to its resemblance to a decrease in car speed when a brake pedal is stepped on. When the photo carriers whether they be electrons or holes generated by the photoelectric conversion of weak light mentioned above are multiplied by the non linear and non equilibrated amplification process to form groups of photo carriers the non linear and non equilibrated process may result in a unique resonant phenomenon of photo carriers which may be termed a drawing effect due to their wave nature and these multiplied photo carriers show a strong correlation with their wave functions. The difference between the photo carriers generated by the incident light and the multiplied photo carriers is reduced and as a result signal charge fluctuations are reduced which suppresses heat fluctuations thermal noise that stem from incident photons by a factor of square root over m or more.

The foregoing description is directed mainly to a first type of embodiment of a new phototransistor for use in photoelectric conversion imaging device . However other embodiments and modifications to the foregoing first embodiment are also contemplated. For example in one example modification generation of dark current may be inhibited by covering gate regions with a semiconductor material having an opposite polarity type than gate regions . The dark current inhibiting semiconductor material may be formed by doping an upper surface of gate regions .

Another alternative embodiment of photoelectric conversion imaging device may include a phototransistor having multiple different light receiving regions or sections. For example gate regions may be reduced in size and drain region may be correspondingly increased in size to receive incident light. Thus drain region may be a photosensitive region that when exposed to light generates photo carriers.

As shown in corresponding to light masking layer may also be formed over the foregoing extrinsic regions and intrinsic region effective to pass incident light to specific regions such as gate regions and drain region or portions thereof. Accordingly other regions may be effectively blocked from exposure to incident light thereby reducing stray noise. The light masking layer is effective to block light from regions over which the light masking layer is formed. By blocking incident light stray noise is reduced. Furthermore generation of dark current may be inhibited by covering gate regions with a semiconductor material having an opposite polarity type than gate regions and by covering drain region with a semiconductor material having an opposite polarity type than drain region . The dark current inhibiting semiconductor materials may be formed by doping upper surfaces of gate regions and drain region .

The circuit layout of may provide somewhat more flexibility in certain respects with regard to designing the gain function of the phototransistor than the circuit layout shown in . More specifically in the embodiment of specific regions such as gate regions may be exposed to light. Optimizing the gain function can be done by modifying the design of gate regions . In the embodiment of both gate regions and drain region can be modified to optimize and achieve a desired gain function.

The intrinsic gate G is formed near the intersection of the x x axis and the y y axis. The intrinsic gate G may be formed inside of intrinsic region . When the initializing voltages are applied to n region and the n region an electric potential barrier is not formed. This is illustrated by the curves in the energy band diagrams of . When an initializing voltage is applied to the p region curves of the energy band diagram for the y y cross section forms. Also the curves change to curves dotted lines . As a result the intrinsic gate G is formed. The intrinsic gate G becomes an electric potential barrier that prevents electrons from flowing from n region to n region . Because the voltage of the intrinsic gate G is determined by the capacitive coupling between capacity Cp of the hole storage p region and capacity Cn of electron storage n region the electric potential barrier can be determined according to the gain in .

In one example the hole storage p region controls the gain in the low illumination range and the electron storage n region control the gain in the high illumination range. In this case the capacity Cp 

When weak light is incident on the photoelectric conversion element holes are accumulated in the hole storage p region and electrons are accumulated in the electron storage n region . Since Cp 

In contrast when high intensity light is incident on the photoelectric conversion imaging element holes are accumulated in the hole storage p region and electrons are accumulated in the electron storage n region . Because Cp 

The cost of designing a photoelectric conversion imaging element using fewer light receiving sections may be higher than that of a photoelectric conversion imaging element that uses many light receiving sections. However a possible trade off for this increased design flexibility may be greater difficulty in reducing pixel size with presently available technology. For example because gate regions can be reduced in size to allow for a larger drain region in the second example embodiment of the ability to reduce pixel size can be more limited than in the first example embodiment of .

Specific dopant concentration levels and dopant materials in the foregoing embodiments may vary in dependence on extrinsic region dimensions and particular layout geometries and materials among other things. In some example implementations intrinsic region can be formed primarily or entirely of silicon. Moreover relatively low dopant concentration p type regions e.g. gate regions and p type well may be doped with about 10to 10boron atoms per cm moderate dopant concentration n type regions e.g. drain region may be doped with about 10to 10arsenic atoms per cm and relatively high dopant concentration n type and p type regions e.g. source region and secondary gate and drain regions and may be doped with about 10to 10boron n or arsenic p atoms per cm.

In addition although both the first and second example embodiments described above implement an n channel i.e. npn phototransistor each of the extrinsic regions may be doped as opposite polarity type semiconductor materials to implement a p channel i.e. pnp phototransistor instead.

At first block Forming An Extrinsic Well in a Semiconductor Substrate an extrinsic well such as p type well can be formed in a semiconductor substrate such as n type substrate . Block may be followed by block . At second block Forming an Extrinsic Region in the Extrinsic Well an intrinsic region such as intrinsic region can be formed in the extrinsic well. Block may be followed by block . At third block Forming a Source by Doping a First Portion of the Intrinsic Region as a First Polarity Type of Semiconductor Material a source such as source region may be formed in a first portion of the intrinsic region. Block may be followed by block . At block Forming a Drain by Doping a Second Portion of the Intrinsic Region as the First Polarity Type of Semiconductor Material a drain such as drain region may be formed in a second portion of the intrinsic region. Block may be followed by block . At block Forming a Light Sensitive Gate by Doping a Third Portion of the Intrinsic Region as a Second Polarity Type of Semiconductor Material a light sensitive gate may be formed in a third portion of the intrinsic region. In one example at least a portion of the light sensitive gate may be located between the source and the drain. Block may be followed by block . At block Forming a First Switch Device Coupled to the Drain a first switch device is formed to be coupled to the drain. Block may be followed by block . At block Forming a Second Switch Device Coupled to the Light Sensitive Gate a second switch device is formed to be coupled to the light sensitive gate.

The source may be formed block by doping a first portion of the intrinsic region as a first polarity type of semiconductor material the drain may be formed block by doping a second portion of the intrinsic region as the first polarity type of semiconductor material and the light sensitive gate may be formed block by doping a third portion of the intrinsic region as a second polarity type of semiconductor material.

Furthermore the drain and light sensitive gate of the phototransistor may be doped to facilitate formation of a depletion capacitance between the intrinsic region and the drain that differs from a depletion capacitance between the intrinsic region and the light sensitive gate such that an electric potential barrier is formed during operation of the imaging device. Moreover the electric potential barrier may be formed so that a gain of the photoelectric imaging device non linearly varies with respect to an incident light intensity.

At block Forming a First Extrinsic Region by Doping a Fourth Portion of the Intrinsic Region as the First Polarity Type of Semiconductor Material a first extrinsic region can be formed by doping a fourth portion of the intrinsic region as the first polarity type of semiconductor material. Block may be followed by block . At block Forming a First Gate Electrode Coupled Between the First Extrinsic Region and the Drain The First Switch Device Being Selectively Activated when a Switch Activating Signal is Applied to the First Gate Electrode a first gate electrode can be formed to couple the first extrinsic region and the drain. The first switch device may be formed so as to be capable of selective activation when a switch activating signal is applied to the first gate electrode. The second switch device may be formed in a similar manner except a gate electrode of the second switch device may couple a second extrinsic region with the light sensitive gate.

One skilled in the art will appreciate that for this and other processes and methods disclosed herein the functions performed in the processes and methods may be implemented in differing order. Furthermore the outlined steps and operations are only provided as examples and some of the steps and operations may be optional combined into fewer steps and operations or expanded into additional steps and operations without detracting from the essence of the disclosed embodiments.

For example method may further include a block in which a first dark current reduction region is formed on a surface of the light sensitive gate by doping at least a portion of a surface of the light sensitive gate as the first polarity type of semiconductor material. In addition a second dark current reduction region may be formed on a surface of the light sensitive drain by doping at least a portion of a surface of the light sensitive gate as the second polarity type of semiconductor material. Moreover in example method the first and second polarity types of semiconductor material may be n type and p type respectively or alternatively p type and n type respectively.

The present disclosure is not to be limited in terms of the particular embodiments described in this application which are intended as illustrations of various aspects. Many modifications and variations can be made without departing from its spirit and scope as will be apparent to those skilled in the art. Functionally equivalent methods and apparatuses within the scope of the disclosure in addition to those enumerated herein will be apparent to those skilled in the art from the foregoing descriptions. Such modifications and variations are intended to fall within the scope of the appended claims. The present disclosure is to be limited only by the terms of the appended claims along with the full scope of equivalents to which such claims are entitled. It is to be understood that this disclosure is not limited to particular methods or devices which can of course vary. It is also to be understood that the terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting.

With respect to the use of substantially any plural and or singular terms herein those having skill in the art can translate from the plural to the singular and or from the singular to the plural as is appropriate to the context and or application. The various singular plural permutations may be expressly set forth herein for sake of clarity.

It will be understood by those within the art that in general terms used herein and especially in the appended claims e.g. bodies of the appended claims are generally intended as open terms e.g. the term including should be interpreted as including but not limited to the term having should be interpreted as having at least the term includes should be interpreted as includes but is not limited to etc. . It will be further understood by those within the art that if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is intended such an intent will be explicitly recited in the claim and in the absence of such recitation no such intent is present. For example as an aid to understanding the following appended claims may contain usage of the introductory phrases at least one and one or more to introduce claim recitations. However the use of such phrases should not be construed to imply that the introduction of a claim recitation by the indefinite articles a or an limits any particular claim containing such introduced claim recitation to embodiments containing only one such recitation even when the same claim includes the introductory phrases one or more or at least one and indefinite articles such as a or an e.g. a and or an should be interpreted to mean at least one or one or more the same holds true for the use of definite articles used to introduce claim recitations. In addition even if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is explicitly recited those skilled in the art will recognize that such recitation should be interpreted to mean at least the recited number e.g. the bare recitation of two recitations without other modifiers means at least two recitations or two or more recitations . Furthermore in those instances where a convention analogous to at least one of A B and C etc. is used in general such a construction is intended in the sense one having skill in the art would understand the convention e.g. a system having at least one of A B and C would include but not be limited to systems that have A alone B alone C alone A and B together A and C together B and C together and or A B and C together etc. . In those instances where a convention analogous to at least one of A B or C etc. is used in general such a construction is intended in the sense one having skill in the art would understand the convention e.g. a system having at least one of A B or C would include but not be limited to systems that have A alone B alone C alone A and B together A and C together B and C together and or A B and C together etc. . It will be further understood by those within the art that virtually any disjunctive word and or phrase presenting two or more alternative terms whether in the description claims or drawings should be understood to contemplate the possibilities of including one of the terms either of the terms or both terms. For example the phrase A or B will be understood to include the possibilities of A or B or A and B. 

In addition where features or aspects of the disclosure are described in terms of Markush groups those skilled in the art will recognize that the disclosure is also thereby described in terms of any individual member or subgroup of members of the Markush group.

As will be understood by one skilled in the art for any and all purposes such as in terms of providing a written description all ranges disclosed herein also encompass any and all possible subranges and combinations of subranges thereof. Any listed range can be easily recognized as sufficiently describing and enabling the same range being broken down into at least equal halves thirds quarters fifths tenths etc. As a non limiting example each range discussed herein can be readily broken down into a lower third middle third and upper third etc. As will also be understood by one skilled in the art all language such as up to at least and the like include the number recited and refer to ranges which can be subsequently broken down into subranges as discussed above. Finally as will be understood by one skilled in the art a range includes each individual member. Thus for example a group having 1 3 cells refers to groups having 1 2 or 3 cells. Similarly a group having 1 5 cells refers to groups having 1 2 3 4 or 5 cells and so forth.

From the foregoing it will be understood that various embodiments of the present disclosure have been described herein for purposes of illustration and that various modifications may be made without departing from the scope and spirit of the present disclosure. Accordingly the various embodiments disclosed herein are not intended to be limiting with the true scope and spirit being indicated by the following claims.

