---

title: Phrase generation using part(s) of a suggested phrase
abstract: Real-time query expansion (RTQE) is a process of supplementing an original query with addition terms or expansion choices that are ranked according to some figure of merit and presented while users are still formulating their queries. As disclosed herein, phrases may be presented and one or more terms of a focused-on phrase may be pinned (as desirable to the user). Subsequent lists may be presented as a function of pinned terms and/or user input. In one embodiment, a placeholder may be substituted for one or more pinned terms if less than some predetermined threshold of phrases is able to be presented based upon the pinned terms and/or user input, and another list of phrases may be presented as a function of a query using fewer than all the pinned terms. The placeholder may allow out-of-index phrases to be formed, for example, based upon two or more phrases and/or terms input by the user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09449076&OS=09449076&RS=09449076
owner: Microsoft Technology Licensing, LLC
number: 09449076
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121015
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 243 638 filed on Oct. 1 2008 entitled PHRASE GENERATION USING PART S OF A SUGGESTED PHRASE at least some of at least one of which may be incorporated herein.

Today many computer related applications help facilitate quicker and more accurate text entry. Auto completion techniques are commonly used in text messaging applications on cellular telephones for example because a numeric keypad or keyboard on a telephone is relatively small and difficult to use. Similar techniques are also commonly used in internet search engines to display frequently entered terms and phrases. While current auto completion techniques have improved accuracy and speed as compared to inputting terms manually there remains room for improvement. For example current auto completion techniques offer a user limited flexibility in modifying a suggested phrase.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key factors or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

According to a first aspect a method for assisting a user in generating a phrase is provided. The method comprises presenting a list of phrases where at least one phrase comprises more than one term. While a phrase is generally understood as meaning more than one term as used herein particularly with regard to certain aspects or embodiment a phrase can include merely one term or more than one term. The method also comprises pinning fewer than all the terms in a focused on phrase comprising more than one term and presenting a second list of phrases based upon the pinned terms. The second list of phrases may be presented for example based upon a query that retrieves phrases that are relevant to the pinned terms.

According to another aspect a method for assisting a user in generating a phrase will systematically loosen the relevance of retrieved phrases when fewer than some predetermined threshold of phrases is otherwise retrieved. The method comprises presenting a list of phrases pinning one or more terms from the presented list and conducting a search of phrases based upon the one or more pinned terms where the pinned terms are substituted with a placeholder e.g. wildcard when fewer than a predetermined threshold of phrases is retrieved during the search. It will be appreciated that the placeholder may hold the spot of one or more terms. The method also comprises presenting a second list of phrases as a function of the phrases retrieved from the search.

According to another aspect a system for assisting a user in generating a phrase is provided. The system comprises an acquisition component configured to obtain sets of phrases from one or more data sources a focusing component configured to focus on a phrase obtained by the acquisition component and a pinning component configured to pin one or more terms of the focused on phrase where the pinned terms are inserted in a character entry field. The system also comprises a substitution component configured to temporarily replace one or more pinned terms with a placeholder when a second set of phrases obtained by the acquisition component comprises fewer than a predetermined threshold of terms.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends the following description and annexed drawings set forth certain illustrative aspects and implementations. These are indicative of but a few of the various ways in which one or more aspects may be employed. Other aspects advantages and novel features of the disclosure will become apparent from the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the annexed drawings.

The claimed subject matter is now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the claimed subject matter. It may be evident however that the claimed subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances structures and devices are illustrated in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the claimed subject matter.

Turning initially to an exemplary methodology is illustrated for assisting a user in generating a phrase using real time query expansion RTQE . In one example the phrases can be so constructed and used for entering a query into a handheld device such as a cellular telephone for example. The method begins at and a list of phrases is presented at . At least one phrase in the list comprises more than one term. A term as used herein might include a word number or symbol for example and a phrase might comprise one or more terms. The list of phrases may be presented when the user opens a character entry application and or when the user inputs text into a character entry field of the character entry application. A character entry application for example may be part of and or used in conjunction with a text messaging application a search engine application and or another application that commonly uses auto completion functionality for example.

The presented phrases may be retrieved from a plurality of data sources. For example phrases may be retrieved from an internet source that comprises phrases that are commonly entered in a search engine a dictionary of phrases internal to a device the character entry application is operating on e.g. a cellular telephone and or a source that saves phrases the user previously entered in the character entry application. In one example graphical representations are used to indicate the source of the retrieved phrases. For example icons similar to those used in desktop applications to represent various file formats may be used to represent the sources of the phrases.

The list of phrases may be arranged according to some figure of merit. One example of a figure of merit may comprise a consideration of the popularity of one or more phrases e.g. relative to some context of interest . For example the phrases may be arranged according to how frequently the phrase is used by the user in the character entry application and or how frequently the phrase is used by others to conduct a search.

In one embodiment the phrases are presented as a function of one or more characters input into the character entry field. The phrases presented in the list may comprise terms that begin with the one or more characters entered into the character entry field. In one example the user may select whether the presented phrases include phrases that begin with the character s entered e.g. the location of the character s in the character entry field correspond to the location of the character s in the phrase or whether presented phrases comprise a term that begins with the character s entered. For example if a user types sp a user may designate whether the presented phrases include only phrases that begin with sp or whether the presented phrases may also include phrases that have a second third etc. term that begins with sp. It will be appreciated that the character s in a term that match the character s input by the user and or the term that includes the character s may be presented in some distinguished manner e.g. bold underlined highlighted etc. .

At fewer than all the terms in the focused on phrase comprising more than one term are pinned. A phrase in the list may be focused on by default e.g. the phrase having the highest figure of merit the most popular phrase in the list etc. or by user input. To focus on other than a default phrase a user may scroll to a different phrase in the list.

The term pinned is used in a broad sense herein to comprise among other things one or more terms that are comprised in the focused on phrase and are selectively added to the phrase being generated or otherwise chosen based upon the occurrence of some predetermined event. A predetermined event might include for example the user pressing a d pad on a cellular telephone to the right and or the user focusing on the phrase such that one or more terms in the phrase are automatically pinned as a function of characters in the character entry field. In one example the pinned terms include a term that comprises characters entered into the character entry field and terms that precede that term. Terms capable of being pinned may be presented in a distinctive manner. For example the one or more terms may be underlined in the list and or parts of those terms that are not in the character entry field may appear in phantom e.g. a lighter font color in the character entry field.

At a second list of phrases is presented based upon the pinned terms. In one example the pinned terms are used to conduct a query of data sources similar to those used to retrieve the list of phrases at to retrieve phrases that are more relevant than the previously presented phrases based upon the pinned terms. It will be appreciated that fewer than all of the pinned terms may be used to conduct a query of the one or more sources. In one example a placeholder may be used to temporarily represent the one or more pinned terms not used to conduct a query and the placeholder may be replaced by those one or more pinned terms prior to presenting the second list of phrases .

In one embodiment the phrases presented in the second list are presented in phrases that comprise at least one of the pinned terms but may in one example include all of the pinned terms. For example the phrases may have common first and second terms if the first and second terms were pinned in a previously presented list and the terms retrieved at may be appended to the first and second term so as to cause unique phrases based upon the third fourth etc. terms .

A subsequent list of phrases may be presented if additional terms for example from the second list are pinned. A subsequent list of phrases may also be presented based upon user input. For example if a desired phrase is not presented in the second list of phrases the user may input characters into the character entry field and a query may be conducted based upon one or more of the pinned terms and or the user input and a subsequent list of phrases may be presented. It will be appreciated that subsequent lists may continue to be presented to the user additional phrases may be focused on and terms may be pinned until the desired phrase is generated. It will also be appreciated that a user may add and or delete a character from one or more pinned terms and list of phrases may be presented based upon the remaining pinned terms and or user input.

Once a desired phrase has been generated as a function of the pinned terms and or user input the user may select the generated phrase. The selected phrase may be inserted into an SMS text message box and or input into a search field text box such as on an internet application for example. The method ends at .

At one or more terms from the presented list are pinned. A user may pin one or more terms by focusing on a phrase in the list e.g. comprising the desired term s and moving right e.g. using a d pad on a cellular telephone for example and or designating the term s in some other manner e.g. hitting enter or another key on a keyboard . It will be appreciated that a term or terms capable of being pinned may be displayed in some distinguished manner e.g. highlighting underlining etc. . Distinguishing terms capable of being pinned may be useful for example where a phrase is focused on and fewer than all terms in the phrase may be pinned if the user moves right for example.

At a search of phrases is conducted based upon one or more pinned terms. Pinned terms may be substituted with a placeholder e.g. a wildcard when fewer than a predetermined threshold of phrases matching the full set of pinned terms is retrieved during the search. The placeholder may act as a marker to hold the spot of one or more terms that are removed prior to a query being conducted. For example if the pinned terms are in series e.g. forming the beginning portion of a phrase a placeholder may be inserted for one or more terms in the series so that a query may be conducted on a limited portion of the series e.g. causing the scope of the query to be expanded .

In one embodiment the placeholder initially replaces a term further to the left of other terms in a character entry field and continues to replace additional terms further to the left relative to other remaining terms in the character entry field until a predetermined threshold of phrases is retrieved during the search. For example suppose green tea ice is presented in the character entry field. If a query is conducted based upon green tea ice and fewer than some predetermined threshold of phrases is retrieved the term green may be replaced with a placeholder. A query may be conducted based upon tea ice and or tea ice where the represents the placeholder and phrases that include zero or more characters precedent to the terms tea ice may be retrieved. If fewer than some predetermined threshold of phrases is retrieved a query may be conducted based upon ice and or ice . This technique for example may allow for improved use of data sources particularly if the phrases comprised in the data sources are limited as a function of storage capacity by retrieving phrases based upon less than all of the pinned terms. It also improves the likelihood that at least one phrase is retrieved from the data source regardless of the terms in the character entry field as compared to other auto completion techniques .

Conducting searches using a placeholder may allow out of index phrases e.g. phrases not stored in the data source s to be created as a function of phrases that are stored in the data source s . That is one or more terms of each of two or more phrases in the data source s may be combined to form a phrase that is not in the data source s . For example the user may want to generate the phrase this is a test of the American broadcast system. While this phrase may not be in the data source s it may be constructed based upon two phrases this is a test of your knowledge and the American broadcast system is sounding for example. The user may pin the terms this is a test of and insert the characters the Ame thereafter for example and a search may be conducted based upon Ame and or Ame if less than a predetermined threshold of phrases were retrieved when the placeholder replaced less than all the pinned terms . The search may cause the phrase the American broadcast system is sounding to be retrieved and appended to the pinned terms this is a test of the. The phrase this is a test of the America broadcast system is sounding may be presented to the user and the user may pin the terms American broadcast system to generate the phrase this is a test of the American broadcast system. It will be understood to those skilled in the art that as long as the phrases that comprise the desired phrase are in the database and individual terms are capable of being pinned the phrase may be generated compositionally. Moreover the user may manually enter one or more terms that are not already in the data source s to arrive at the desired phrase.

It will be appreciated that phrases that are generated by combining multiple in index phrases e.g. this is a test of the American broadcast system but are not initially stored in the data source s may be added to the data source s . Alternatively fewer than all of the generated phrase may be stored in the data source s e.g. where memory is scarce . For example terms the user manually enters because the terms are not already stored in the data source s e.g. out of index terms may be added to the data source s to become in index terms phrases but terms in the phrase that are already stored in the data source s individually or as part of a phrase of two or more terms may not be stored in the data source s again. Limiting storage to those terms that are not already in the data source s may for example reduce the amount of memory used by the data source s which may be particularly desirable where memory may be limited such as in a cellular telephone for example .

At a second list of phrases is presented as a function of phrases retrieved from the search at . In one embodiment the phrases presented in the second list commonly share the terms pinned at . For example green tea ice may be presented to the left of the phrases retrieved at e.g. the first three terms of the phrases presented in the second list are green tea ice . If a placeholder was substituted for one or more pinned terms the placeholder may be replaced with the pinned terms it was substituted for prior to being presented to the user.

It will be appreciated that user input may also be received and a search may be conducted at based upon one or more pinned terms and the text input by the user. For example if a desired phrase is not presented to the user in the second list a user may input additional text into the character entry field and a search may be conducted based upon the pinned terms and the additional text. In one embodiment the placeholder may replace both pinned terms and user input so that a predetermined threshold of phrases is retrieved. That is the user input may be treated similarly to terms pinned from a previously presented list of phrases e.g. the phrases presented at . For example if green tea is pinned and the user inputs ice c into the character entry field after the pinned terms a placeholder may be substituted for green tea ice e.g. conducting a search using the search term c where this includes the space before the c . Additionally the placeholder may substitute characters including terms and spaces up to the term boundary of the last term e.g. the last or rightmost space in the character entry field . In the example above if still more phrases are preferred to achieve a predetermined threshold a placeholder may be substituted for green tea ice using the search term c . While substituting characters up to the term boundary of the last term is not preferred it promotes the likelihood that at least one phrase will be retrieved and will in practicality return many results since merely the letter c for example will be searched and thus many results beginning with the letter c will be returned . That is the characters preceding the term boundary of the last term serve as predictors of upcoming terms and when the placeholder is substituted for characters preceding the term boundary of the last term the predictions are less accurate e.g. relying solely on the popularity of terms that begin with the character c .

The techniques disclosed herein may be used to present subsequent lists to the user until a desired phrase is generated. When the desired phrase is generated the user may select the phrase causing the phrase to be input into a desired field e.g. an SMS text message an internet website etc. . The method ends at .

By way of example demonstrate at least some of the advantages of generating a phrase using the techniques disclosed herein e.g. as provided in . More particularly illustrate a display a character entry application a character entry field and a field for displaying lists of phrases .

A user may use the techniques for example to generate the phrase green tea ice. In the user inputs the character g into the character entry field and a list of phrases that begin with g is presented to the user in the field for displaying lists of phrases . It will be appreciated that phrases may also be presented prior to user input. The character s in a phrase on the list that correspond to the character s in the character entry field may be represented in a distinctive manner e.g. bold font highlighting underlining etc. . This may for example assist a user in determining which term s may be pinned if the user moves right . It will also be appreciated that a phrase in the list may be focused on by default. In the illustrated example the phrase goggles is focused on by default.

The phrases may be ordered according to some figure of merit for example such as how popular the phrase is relative to other phrases. It will be appreciated that the number of phrases retrieved and or presented may be a function of the available area on the display and phrases presented may be those with a higher figure or merit relative to those not retrieved and or presented. For example fewer phrases may be presented in a display on a cellular telephone with a relatively small screen than on a computer display.

Graphical representations corresponding to the source of a phrase may also be presented. For example the graphical representations may indicate that the phrase was retrieved from an internal dictionary an internet source etc. It one example a graphical representation may be selected and additional phrases from the source represented by the graphical representation may be retrieved.

As illustrated in the user may continue to input characters into the character entry field until a desired term green appears in the field for displaying lists of phrases . If the desired term s appears the user may focus on the phrase comprising the desired term s and pin the term s . In the illustrated example the user focuses on green day and pins green e.g. by moving right on a d pad on a cellular telephone . In one example the part of the term that would be pinned if the user moves right but has not been typed yet e.g. en may be displayed in phantom in the character entry field when the user focuses on the phrase.

As illustrated in the pinned term s may appear in the character entry field and another list of phrases more relevant as a function of a search conducted based upon the pinned term green may appear in the field for displaying lists of phrases . In the illustrated example phrases that begin with green are retrieved from data sources. If additional terms of the desired phrase are presented e.g. a desired next term in the phrase the phrase comprising the desired next term may be focused on. In the user focuses on green tea and pins the term tea since green was already pinned .

In the term tea is added to the character entry field and another list of phrases more relevant as a function of a search conducted based upon the terms green tea appears in the field for displaying lists of phrases . If the phrases presented do not assist the user in generating the desired phrase the user may enter additional text into the character entry field causing the list of phrases in the field for displaying lists of phrases to change.

In the user inputs the character i after pinned terms green tea in the character entry field and another list of phrases appears in the field for displaying lists of phrases . Referring back to two phrases were retrieved based upon a search of the terms green tea and neither of the two matching phrases comprised green tea i so no results would be returned if a search were conducted based upon the terms green tea i . To retrieve terms relevant to at least a portion of the terms characters in the character entry field a placeholder may be substituted for one or more of the terms in the character entry field and terms relevant to the remaining portion of the terms characters in the character entry field may be retrieved. For example the placeholder may replace the term green and a search may be conducted based upon the phrase tea i and or tea i. If fewer than some predetermined threshold of terms appear based upon a search of tea i and or tea I the placeholder may substitute for green tea and a search based upon i may be conducted. If still more phrases are needed the placeholder may finally substitute for green tea with a space after the word tea and a search based upon i may be conducted.

In the illustrated example the phrases retrieved are appended to the terms that are pinned in the character entry field so that the field for displaying lists of phrases comprises phrases that include the pinned terms . For example if chocolate ice was found as a match to i it appends ice to green tea to generate the phrase green tea ice even if that phrase was not in the sources . The user may focus on a desired phrase and pin the next term e.g. the user may focus on the phrase green tea ice and pin the term ice .

When the desired phrase is generated e.g. green tea ice the phrase may be inserted into a desired location e.g. search engine field a text message etc. . In the illustrated example the generated phrase is inserted into a desired location when a search button is selected.

As illustrated in the user inserts the characters sp in the character entry field and phrases that comprise sp are presented in the field for displaying lists of phrases . Since match anyway functionality is enabled phrases that do not begin with sp may also be displayed in the field for displaying lists of phrases . The user may scroll to a desired phrase e.g. fantasy sports and pin one or more terms. In the illustrated example terms precedent to and including the term that comprises sp are pinned when the user moves right . It will be appreciated that the user may also just pin the term sports e.g. ignoring the term fantasy .

In the pinned terms fantasy sports are displayed in the character entry field and additional phrases are suggested as a function of a search of data sources based upon the terms fantasy sports. It will be appreciated that lists may continue to be presented as a function of pinned terms and or input characters until the desired phrase is generated. The phrase may then be inserted into a location specified by the user.

The acquisition component obtains a first set of phrases from one or more data sources upon the occurrence of a predetermined event e.g. a character entry application is opened and or user input is received in the character entry field of a character entry application . In one embodiment the acquisition component obtains phrases that are more relevant relative to other terms in the data sources based upon phrases that are more popular to the user determined as a function of phrases previously selected by the user . Phrases may also be more relevant for example based upon user input received into the character entry field of the character entry application. The phrases obtained by the acquisition component may be displayed to the user on a display .

The focusing component focuses on a phrase from the first set of phrases obtained by the acquisition component . The focusing component may focus on a phrase by default and or focus on a phrase based upon user input. If a phrase is focused on by default the user may focus on a different phrase by scrolling through the set of obtained set of phrases. It will be appreciated that the focusing component may present the focused on phrase to the user in a distinguished manner e.g. highlighting underlining etc. .

The pinning component pins one or more terms of the focused on phrase by the focusing component and inserts the pinned term s into the character entry field. In one example the pinning component automatically pins a term that is further to the left of other terms in a focused on phrase that have not been pinned. For example if I like has already been pinned and a user focus on a phrase that reads I like football games the pinning component may automatically pin football after the phrase has been focused on for five seconds. In another example the pinning component pins a term as a function of user input e.g. the user touches the right arrow key on a d pad on a cellular telephone . In one embodiment the pinning component indicates to the user which term will be pinned from the focused on phrase e.g. by displaying the term in phantom in the character entry field and or underlining the term .

The acquisition component obtains a second and or subsequent set of phrases from the one or more data sources as a function of the pinned terms and or other user input into the character entry field. In one example the acquisition component appends the obtained terms to the pinned terms to form phrases. The second and or subsequent set of phrases is displayed to the user and the focusing component focuses on a phrase from the second and or subsequent set of phrases. The pinning component may pin a term from the focused on phrase and or the user may select a phrase causing the acquisition component to not obtain a third set of phrases .

The substitution component is configured to temporarily replace one or more pinned terms with a placeholder when a set of phrases comprises fewer than a predetermined threshold of phrases so that the acquisition component may obtain another set of phrases as a function of less than all the pinned terms in the character entry field. For example the character entry field may comprise the phrase green tea ice and the acquisition component may attempt conduct a query of the one or more data sources to obtain phrases relevant to that phrase. If fewer than a predetermined threshold of phrases is obtained by the acquisition component the substitution component may substitute green with a placeholder so that phrases relevant to tea ice may be obtained for example. If still fewer than a predetermined threshold of phrases is obtained the substitution component may substitute green tea with a placeholder so that phrases relevant to ice may be obtained. In one example the substitution component reinserts the substituted terms in the spot marked by the placeholder when the acquisition component obtains at least a predetermined threshold of phrases. This may for example allow the pinned terms to be displayed with the phrases obtained by the acquisition component such that the terms from the obtained phrases are appended to the pinned terms . In another example the substitution component replaces the terms that cannot be part of the desired phrase with the pinned terms. For example the acquisition component may obtain the phrase vanilla ice cream and the substitution component may replace vanilla ice with green tea ice since the terms green tea ice have already been pinned.

It will be understood to those skilled in the art that substituting one or more terms with a placeholder e.g. a wildcard may allow out of index phrases to be generated. That is phrases may be generated that are based upon one or more phrases in the data sources as well as terms manually input by the user e.g. because they were out of index . This may for example reduce the number of phrases that need to be stored in the data sources . For example green tea ice cream may not be stored in the data source but the phrases green tea and vanilla ice cream may be stored in the data sources . The phrase green tea ic for example may be inserted into the character entry field through pinning and or user input and a query may be conducted to retrieve phrases that comprise green tea ic. If less than some predetermined threshold of phrases is retrieved a placeholder may be inserted for one or more of the terms. If the placeholder replaces green tea for example a query may be conducted based upon ic and or ic and the phrase vanilla ice cream may be retrieved. The substitution component may replace vanilla with green tea since the placeholder represents terms that are precedent to ic e.g. green tea .

It will be appreciated that the phrase generated by the user may be stored in the data sources . For example the phrase green tea ice cream may be stored in the data sources so that it may be obtained more quickly relative to generating the phrase through pinning and or user input in future queries by the acquisition component . It will also be appreciated that the data sources may limit which terms in a phrase are added to the data sources . In one example terms added to the data sources are those that are not already in the data sources individually or as part of a phrase of more than one term . That is out of index terms become in index terms by adding them to the data sources . Limiting the terms added to the data sources may reduce the amount of storage space used on a device with limited storage capacity such as a cellular telephone for example.

Still another embodiment involves a computer readable medium comprising processor executable instructions configured to implement one or more of the techniques presented herein. An exemplary computer readable medium that may be devised in these ways is illustrated in wherein the implementation comprises a computer readable medium e.g. a CD R DVD R or a platter of a hard disk drive on which is encoded computer readable data . This computer readable data in turn comprises a set of computer instructions configured to operate according to one or more of the principles set forth herein. In one such embodiment the processor executable instructions may be configured to perform a method such as the exemplary methods of of for example. In another such embodiment the processor executable instructions may be configured to implement a system such as the exemplary system of FIG. for example. Many such computer readable media may be devised by those of ordinary skill in the art that are configured to operate in accordance with the techniques presented herein.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

As used in this application the terms component module system interface and the like are generally intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a controller and the controller can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers.

Furthermore the claimed subject matter may be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement the disclosed subject matter. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. Of course those skilled in the art will recognize many modifications may be made to this configuration without departing from the scope or spirit of the claimed subject matter.

Although not required embodiments are described in the general context of computer readable instructions being executed by one or more computing devices. Computer readable instructions may be distributed via computer readable media discussed below . Computer readable instructions may be implemented as program modules such as functions objects Application Programming Interfaces APIs data structures and the like that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Typically the functionality of the computer readable instructions may be combined or distributed as desired in various environments.

In other embodiments device may include additional features and or functionality. For example device may also include additional storage e.g. removable and or non removable including but not limited to magnetic storage optical storage and the like. Such additional storage is illustrated in by storage . In one embodiment computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein may be in storage . Storage may also store other computer readable instructions to implement an operating system an application program and the like. Computer readable instructions may be loaded in memory for execution by processing unit for example.

The term computer readable media as used herein includes computer storage media. Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions or other data. Memory and storage are examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM Digital Versatile Disks DVDs or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by device . Any such computer storage media may be part of device .

Device may also include communication connection s that allows device to communicate with other devices. Communication connection s may include but is not limited to a modem a Network Interface Card NIC an integrated network interface a radio frequency transmitter receiver an infrared port a USB connection or other interfaces for connecting computing device to other computing devices. Communication connection s may include a wired connection or a wireless connection. Communication connection s may transmit and or receive communication media.

The term computer readable media may include communication media. Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal may include a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal.

Device may include input device s such as keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device infrared cameras video input devices and or any other input device. Output device s such as one or more displays speakers printers and or any other output device may also be included in device . Input device s and output device s may be connected to device via a wired connection wireless connection or any combination thereof. In one embodiment an input device or an output device from another computing device may be used as input device s or output device s for computing device .

Components of computing device may be connected by various interconnects such as a bus. Such interconnects may include a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI such as PCI Express a Universal Serial Bus USB firewire IEEE 1394 an optical bus structure and the like. In another embodiment components of computing device may be interconnected by a network. For example memory may be comprised of multiple physical memory units located in different physical locations interconnected by a network.

Those skilled in the art will realize that storage devices utilized to store computer readable instructions may be distributed across a network. For example a computing device accessible via network may store computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein. Computing device may access computing device and download a part or all of the computer readable instructions for execution. Alternatively computing device may download pieces of the computer readable instructions as needed or some instructions may be executed at computing device and some at computing device .

Various operations of embodiments are provided herein. In one embodiment one or more of the operations described may constitute computer readable instructions stored on one or more computer readable media which if executed by a computing device will cause the computing device to perform the operations described. The order in which some or all of the operations are described should not be construed as to imply that these operations are necessarily order dependent. Alternative ordering will be appreciated by one skilled in the art having the benefit of this description. Further it will be understood that not all operations are necessarily present in each embodiment provided herein.

Moreover the word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as advantageous over other aspects or designs. Rather use of the word exemplary is intended to present concepts in a concrete fashion. As used in this application the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . That is unless specified otherwise or clear from context X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is if X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B then X employs A or B is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims may generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form.

Also although the disclosure has been shown and described with respect to one or more implementations equivalent alterations and modifications will occur to others skilled in the art based upon a reading and understanding of this specification and the annexed drawings. The disclosure includes all such modifications and alterations and is limited only by the scope of the following claims. In particular regard to the various functions performed by the above described components e.g. elements resources etc. the terms used to describe such components are intended to correspond unless otherwise indicated to any component which performs the specified function of the described component e.g. that is functionally equivalent even though not structurally equivalent to the disclosed structure which performs the function in the herein illustrated exemplary implementations of the disclosure. In addition while a particular feature of the disclosure may have been disclosed with respect to only one of several implementations such feature may be combined with one or more other features of the other implementations as may be desired and advantageous for any given or particular application. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes having has with or variants thereof are used in either the detailed description or the claims such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising. 

