---

title: System and method to enhance user presence management to enable the federation of rich media sessions
abstract: A method and system is provided to enhance user presence management to enable the federation of rich media sessions. The method is implemented on a system and includes a presence manager server receiving a notification of user activity of one or more users taking place on one or more participating ecosystem sites in a participant ecosystem. The method further includes processing the user activity of the one or more users based on preferences of the one or more participating ecosystem sites established during a registration process and stored in a preference repository. The method further includes sending a notification of the user activity of the one or more users to the one or more participating ecosystem sites in the participant ecosystem to enable the participating ecosystem sites to at least one of communicate the user activity of the one or more users to one or more users and maintain a session of the one or more users.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08396965&OS=08396965&RS=08396965
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 08396965
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120425
---
This application is a continuation application of Ser. No. 12 492 759 filed Jun. 26 2009 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 266 226 issued on Sep. 11 2012 the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

The present invention generally relates to presence management and more particularly to methods and systems for enhancing user presence management to enable the federation of rich content sessions.

Web users use Internet browsers to visit different web sites of their choice to access view and share content communicate and collaborate with one another conduct Internet searches and buy products online. The popularity of web portals is driven by the ability to integrate multiple sources of information and content into a unified user experience. Rich content and capabilities continue to evolve on the web and portal operators who continuously struggle to integrate these latest technologies into portals are constantly faced with the compromise of linking the user out of the portal to lower cost and increase speed to market.

When a user s experience is comprised of multiple disparate applications complexities arise when dealing with session management. For example in some web sessions the user is prone to receiving a session timeout error screen when clicking between applications. Additionally as discussed below these different applications cannot easily share information to enhance the user experience.

In many web portals the user enters the main portal application before accessing the other services available on the portal. Also to interact with certain applications the user would typically need to leave the main portal. Unfortunately this results in session management concerns. For example in an ideal implementation the user can access all content services and functionality through portlets and would not need to access any other web application. Portal operators however cannot always achieve this ideal implementation because applications do not typically offer standardized portlets that can be integrated into the main portal. Instead each application is only exposed as a standalone application. In this typical case the portal will provide an introductory portlet that describes the application and will offer a hyperlink to the full application server.

One of many issues implicated in this scenario is session management timeout for each of these applications. Although several products exist to enable single sign on entry to give access to multiple applications such products do not address enterprise session management that can keep all application sessions in the set synchronized. For example after a user enters a portal and clicks on a link that takes the user to an application the portal server is unaware of the user s activity on that other application. For this reason a user s session may expire while using the application thereby resulting in session expiration before the user links back to the main portal. Although portal operators resort to setting the portal session timeout to a very high number and in the event of timeout resort to rebuilding the session these are not ideal solutions.

A corollary issue relates to loss of a common session. In a typical application different components can share information about the products and services with which the user is interacting. This allows for instance an MP3 commerce component to automatically offer the soundtrack for a movie that the user is previewing in another component. In the absence of a common session however the necessary information is not shared and is lost upon session timeout.

Accordingly there exists a need in the art to overcome the deficiencies and limitations described hereinabove.

In an aspect of the invention a method comprises a presence manager server receiving a notification of user activity of one or more users taking place on one or more participating ecosystem sites in a participant ecosystem. The method also comprises processing the user activity of the one or more users based on preferences of the one or more participating ecosystem sites established during a registration process and stored in a preference repository. The method further comprises sending a notification of the user activity of the one or more users to the one or more participating ecosystem sites in the participant ecosystem to enable the participating ecosystem sites to at least one of communicate the user activity of the one or more users to one or more users and maintain a session of the one or more users.

In another aspect of the invention a system for enabling the federation of rich content sessions comprises a preference repository and a presence manager server. The preference repository is operable to receive registration and preference information of one or more participating ecosystem sites user activity information and user activity requests received from the one or more participating ecosystem sites. The presence manager server is operable to receive from the one or more participating ecosystem sites in a participant ecosystem a notification of user activity of one or more users taking place on the one or more participating ecosystem sites. The presence manager is also operable to process the user activity based on the preferences of the one or more participating ecosystem sites established during a registration process and stored on a preference repository. The presence manager server is further operable to send a notification of the user activity to the one or more participating ecosystem sites in the participant ecosystem to enable the one or more participating ecosystem sites to at least one of communicate the user activity to the one or more users and maintain a session of the one or more users. Each participating ecosystem site is operable to execute an application. Each application contains an application profile that describes the application.

In yet another aspect of the invention a computer program product comprises a computer usable storage medium having readable program code tangibly embodied in the storage medium. The computer program product is operable to receive registration and preference information of one or more participating ecosystem sites user activity information of a user and user activity requests from the one or more participating ecosystem sites in a participant ecosystem. The computer program product is further operable to receive a notification of user activity of the one or more users taking place on the one or more participating ecosystem sites from the one or more participating ecosystem sites in the participant ecosystem. The computer program product is also operable to process the user activity based on the preferences of the one or more participating ecosystem sites established during a registration process and stored on a repository. The computer program product is further operable to send a notification of the user activity to the one or more participating ecosystem sites in the participant ecosystem to enable the participating ecosystem sites to at least one of communicate the user activity to a plurality of other users and maintain a session of the one or more users.

In yet another aspect of the invention a computer system for enabling the federation of rich content sessions comprises a CPU a computer readable memory and a computer readable storage media. The computer system also comprises first program instructions to process requests for user activity information and second program instructions to send the user activity information to one or more participating ecosystem sites. The first and second program instructions are stored on the computer readable storage media for execution by the CPU via the computer readable memory.

The present invention generally relates to presence management and more particularly to methods and systems for enhancing user presence management to enable the federation of rich content sessions. Presence is defined as the ability to determine a user s status on a telecommunications network channel along with the availability and preference of the subscriber to communicate on that channel such as for example an instant messaging session. Additionally in an IMS IP Multimedia Subsystem context presence is maintained in a presence server which is a SIP A S Application Server that maintains network based presence for telecommunications purposes. As such all entities that communicate with an IMS compliant presence server have to be SIP aware.

Advantageously the present invention extends existing presence capabilities by capturing specifics about what the user is doing online such as for example what applications media and other content the user is accessing. Additionally the invention exposes this extended information to approved users in order to communicate specific media products and or services other users may be using during the session. This could for example create enriched cross sell opportunities. Moreover the invention enables a related application set to use the extended presence information to synchronize session activity and share user information to realize a federated session experience. For example if a user logs onto Portal A and moves to Website B from Portal A Portal A will be notified of session activity taking place on Website B. Based on this information Portal A will not time out the session as the user is still active on Website B which may be a related site. Finally the invention securely exposes the extended presence information as a monetized service to approved applications in order to leverage both the user s and user s friends online activities to offer richer user experience.

The present invention exposes rich media sessions based on the concept of deep presence across all related applications in order to overcome a lack of a shared application server session. Deep presence refers to comprehensive awareness of the presence of users and their activities within an ecosystem. More specifically the invention provides a mechanism for revealing Internet session based information to trusted social network members in a cross domain manner. In embodiments the present invention leverages a common identity backplane and centrally enforces black lists and white lists to protect privacy.

The federated rich content session enabled by the present invention provides a standard that allows the different applications in an application set to share information about the user as well as the activity of the user. In this way the federated rich content session enhances the overall user experience by extending the capabilities of the application set.

To achieve a federated session experience the invention enables a related application set to use the extended presence information to synchronize session activity and share user information. In embodiments the invention enhances existing user presence management standards to include not only available and or away status but also what applications the user is using as well as other associated information such as for example user interaction with a media such as a movie song or other feature.

In implementations the present invention solves many practical issues that have otherwise curtailed the realization of allowing different applications to share user information. For example according to aspects of the invention a participating ecosystem shared session application set groups a set of disconnected applications running on participating ecosystem sites to enable them to share user activity and or session information between and among other participating ecosystem sites thereby allowing a federated session experience across the application set in the ecosystem. For example in embodiments all applications in an application set may share information relating to the online activities of a user who has used or is using any other application in the application set based on preferences established by both users and participating ecosystem sites in the ecosystem.

In embodiments this concept of a federated session may be extended outside a set of related applications to support any application that wants and is allowed by the user to receive information related to the user s activity thereby allowing the application to offer an enriched user experience. This presence information for example may be owned by the service provider maintained on existing presence servers and offered as a service to third party application providers.

In embodiments the invention leverages existing authentication baseline mechanisms for federating identities such as the Open ID standard. It extends the authorization model to allow an application to access only certain presence information as specified by the service provider based on level of service or as specified by the user based on permissions granted.

In further embodiments the invention also leverages existing white list concepts to allow a user to give an application or application domain permission to expose their presence to any interested party regardless of the status of that party. The motivation for granting such a privilege could be for example discounts on products and services. In embodiments the invention further extends the typical white list paradigm to white list a user s buddy list to automatically allow all of a user s friends or buddies to access that user s presence information. This may be helpful in sharing a user s activities on sites that offer product recommendations with those on the user s white list.

In embodiments the present invention also leverages the concept of blacklists to allow a user to block the sharing of information to an entire application domain or a specific user across all application domains. In implementations the invention may additionally allow the notion of blacklisting a user and all associated users on a user s buddy list.

In embodiments the present invention leverages publish and subscription capabilities to extend the existing notion of presence which includes a status message where updates are viewable in connected applications. This extends functionality to support a subscription and notification based model where participating entities or sites both feed user presence information and register to be notified about changes from other entities participating in the ecosystem. These notifications could include for example the ability to immediately enforce any change in user preferences including the addition or revocation of permissions.

As will be appreciated by one skilled in the art the present invention may be embodied as a system method or computer program product. Accordingly the present invention may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code etc. or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may all generally be referred to herein as a circuit module or system. Furthermore the present invention may take the form of a computer program product embodied in any tangible storage medium of expression having computer usable program code embodied in the medium.

Any combination of one or more computer usable or computer readable medium s may be utilized. The computer usable or computer readable medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus device or propagation medium. More specific examples a non exhaustive list of the computer readable medium may include the following 

The computer usable or computer readable medium could even be paper or another suitable medium upon which the program is printed as the program can be electronically captured via for instance optical scanning of the paper or other medium then compiled interpreted or otherwise processed in a suitable manner if necessary and then stored in a computer memory.

In the context of this document a computer usable or computer readable medium may be any medium that can contain store communicate propagate or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device. The computer usable medium may include a propagated data signal with the computer usable program code embodied therewith either in baseband or as part of a carrier wave. The computer usable program code may be transmitted using any appropriate medium including but not limited to wireless wireline optical fiber cable RF etc.

Computer program code for carrying out operations of the present invention may be written in any combination of one or more programming languages including an object oriented programming language such as Java Smalltalk C or the like and conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages. The program code may execute entirely on the user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through any type of network. This may include for example a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider .

In embodiments the presence manager and preference repository may be provided and resident on a separate computer infrastructure of for example a service provider. Additionally as shown in the presence manager is in communication with the preference repository as well as any number of a plurality of users and participating ecosystem sites in a participant ecosystem.

The computing device also includes a processor memory A an I O interface and a bus . The memory A can include local memory employed during actual execution of program code. Storage cache memories and storage system B can provide temporary storage of at least some program code in order to reduce the number of times code must be retrieved from bulk storage during execution. In addition the computing device includes random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM and an operating system O S .

The computing device is in communication with the external I O device resource and the storage system B. The external I O device resource may comprise any device that enables an individual to interact with the computing device or any device that enables the computing device to communicate with one or more other computing devices using any type of communications link. The external I O device resource may be for example a handheld device PDA handset keyboard etc.

In general the processor executes computer program code e.g. program code logic which can be stored in the memory A and or storage system B. Moreover in accordance with aspects of the invention the program code having program code logic communicates with the presence manager . While executing the computer program code the processor can read and or write data to from memory A storage system B and or I O interface . The program code executes the processes of the invention. The bus provides a communications link between each of the components in the computing device .

The computing device may comprise any general purpose computing article of manufacture capable of executing computer program code installed thereon e.g. a personal computer server etc. . However it is understood that the computing device is only representative of various possible equivalent computing devices that may perform the processes described herein. To this extent in embodiments the functionality provided by the computing device can be implemented by a computing article of manufacture that includes any combination of general and or specific purpose hardware and or computer program code. In each embodiment the program code and hardware can be created using standard programming and engineering techniques respectively.

Similarly the computing infrastructure is only illustrative of various types of computing infrastructures for implementing the invention. For example in embodiments the computing infrastructure comprises two or more computing devices e.g. a server cluster that communicate over any type of communications link such as a network a shared memory or the like to perform the processes described herein. Further while performing the processes described herein one or more computing devices on the computing infrastructure can communicate with one or more other computing devices external to the computing infrastructure using any type of communications link. The communications link can comprise any combination of wired and or wireless links any combination of one or more types of networks e.g. the Internet a wide area network a local area network a virtual private network etc. and or utilize any combination of transmission techniques and protocols.

The environment also includes a participating ecosystem shared session application set which may contain any of a plurality of participating ecosystem sites . Each participating ecosystem site may in turn comprise any of a plurality of applications each with an application profile . Additionally the invention includes a user application list and a media interaction list both of which may be stored in storage system B in computing infrastructure . The shared application set groups any number of a plurality of disconnected applications which users may access. Each application comprises an application profile which contains identifying information about the application . The presence manager is configured to access this application profile in order to identify the application .

The user application list comprises a list of applications that the user used or is currently using. The media interaction list comprises a list of media that the user is or has recently accessed.

In embodiments the application profile allows applications to register a profile with the presence manager to enable it to serve as a client to the presence manager .

The shared session application set groups a set of disconnected applications to enable them to share user activity and or session information between the applications to enable a federated session experience across the application set . In embodiments the usage of applications by user may include the type of activity the user is conducting such as for example browsing news websites shopping online interacting with others etc. In embodiments in addition to the specific title of the media the media interaction list may also include a media type such as for example a song album video clip television show movie etc. In embodiments the media interaction list may also include the type of interaction the user is conducting such as for example previewing online viewing downloading etc.

In embodiments the invention exposes the extension of existing presence information to registered and approved users in order to communicate information about the specific media products and services with which any number of a plurality of other users are interacting in order to offer enriched cross sell opportunities. In further embodiments the invention securely exposes the extended presence information as a fee based service to approved applications to leverage the online activities of users and their friends in order to enhance the online experience. In this way the system and method of the present invention can be offered as a revenue generating service.

In embodiments the invention provides a business method that performs the steps of the invention on a subscription advertising and or fee basis. That is a service provider such as a solution integrator could offer to perform the processes described herein. In this case the service provider can create maintain deploy support etc. the computer infrastructure that performs the process steps of the invention for one or more customers. These customers may be for example any business that uses technology. In return the service provider can receive payment from the customer s under a subscription and or fee agreement and or the service provider can receive payment from the sale of advertising content to one or more third parties.

The Partner Ecosystem Domain Tier may contain any number of a plurality of participating ecosystem sites comprising any number of a plurality of participant ecosystems . The participating ecosystem sites also include browsers which communicate with the presence manager in the Service Domain Tier . In embodiments this communication may be conducted through load balancers and or other EDGE Infrastructures . The load balancers can be for for example IP sprayers which are configured to handle multiple requests. In embodiments the preference manager is configured to store the preferences rules of each participating ecosystem site . These preferences may include for example the types of activities conducted by users on other participating ecosystem sites belonging to the same participant ecosystem . In embodiments these activities include those that may be shared with other participating ecosystem sites belonging to the same participant ecosystem according to the preferences of the users .

As further shown in the Service Domain Tier includes the presence manager which is comprised of a presence data processor engine an authorization engine a connector framework and a presence data repository . The presence data processor engine which acts as a context sensitive router of status information is operable to communicate with the connector framework authorization engine and presence data repository to enable aspects of the invention. For example each time a notification is received from either a user or participating ecosystem site the presence data processor engine processes the rules and preferences stored in the preference repository in order to determine which participating ecosystem site or plurality thereof in a participant ecosystem is authorized to access information relating to the user s activities.

The authorization engine is comprised of a black list manager and or a white list manager and is operable to determine which participating ecosystem site or plurality thereof in a participating ecosystem may access eligible user information stored in the presence data repository . In embodiments the eligibility of such user information will depend on the preference rules established by the user and or participating ecosystem site or plurality thereof which are members of the same participant ecosystem . In further embodiments the eligibility of user information will depend on the preference rules established by either the user or the participating ecosystem site or plurality thereof which are members of the same participant ecosystem . In embodiments the black list manager and the white list manager may contain rules and data to enable both the automated prohibition and automated authorization respectively of access to user activities stored in the preference repository and set during user registration.

The connector framework is operable to enable access to the presence manager through for example SOAP REST HTTP Ajax etc. to enable the retrieval and delivery of data to and from the presence manager . The presence data repository contains presence data which may utilize available formats for the storage of presence data. These formats may include for example PIDF Presence Information Data Format and RPDI Rich Presence Information Data . One ordinarily skilled in the art will recognize however that as presence data storage technology advances to include other formats the presence data repository may be operable to utilize those new formats.

The presence manager in the Service Domain Tier is operable to support operations administration maintenance and provisioning OAM P services a common identity management framework and a user profile database . OAM P support maintains the network devices such as for example user devices in the User Domain Tier by setting up services in a centralized fashion. The user profile database can be represented by storage system B and may contain user preference information. The common identity management framework may be comprised of network elements that enable a collective infrastructure such as for example authentication and authorization services as well as user management.

Furthermore the invention can take the form of a computer program product accessible from a computer usable or computer readable medium providing program code for use by or in connection with a computer or any instruction execution system. The software and or computer program product can be implemented in the environment of and or architecture of . For the purposes of this description a computer usable or computer readable medium can be any apparatus that can contain store communicate propagate or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device. The medium can be an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system or apparatus or device or a propagation medium any of which are discussed here. Examples of a computer readable storage medium include a semiconductor or solid state memory magnetic tape a removable computer diskette a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM a rigid magnetic disk and an optical disk. Current examples of optical disks include compact disk read only memory CD ROM compact disc read write CD R W and DVD.

At step S one or more participating ecosystem sites subscribe to be notified about session and status e.g. presence change information and events of one or more users that the subscribing participating ecosystem sites determine may be relevant to other users. This subscription process involves transferring enough information to enable the presence manager to later determine at step S what user activity in the participating ecosystem the presence manager should transfer to that participating ecosystem site once it has been successfully registered.

At Step S the preference repository acknowledges the subscription request made by participating ecosystem sites by sending an acknowledgment to the registering participating ecosystem site to indicate that the provisioning and registration of participating ecosystem site was successful. By way of non limiting embodiments such acknowledgements can be accomplished by way of a REST notification as shown in .

In non limiting embodiments one or more registered participating ecosystem sites may through the registration process ask to be notified when a certain condition or set of conditions relating to the activities of any number of a plurality of users occurs. For example participating ecosystem sites can specify during the registration process to be notified only when any of the users accesses certain resources such as for example a website set of websites or other content or category of content or any combination thereof. Such notification may include information about which users satisfy the conditions that the participating ecosystem site specified during registration as well as the nature of such access.

In further aspects of the invention at step S any of a plurality of users register with the presence manager. The registration involves the user s preferences for what information about its activities it would like to be made public. In embodiments the presence manager may be accessed through a website web interface or other method of communication by either a computing device mobile phone or other device capable of transmitting information sufficient to establish preferences of the user.

In further embodiments at step S during registration of any of a plurality of users the user may specify which participating ecosystem site or plurality thereof are allowed to receive notification about its activities. That is in embodiments a registering user may specify which types of its activities it wishes to make available to participating ecosystem sites and their other users. In embodiments a registering user may specify which participating ecosystem site and or other user will be placed on a black list and or white list. Those entities on a user s black list are automatically denied access to the presence information of that particular user. Those entities on a user s white list are automatically granted access to the presence information of that particular user.

Upon receipt of the user s preferences the presence manager at step S validates the preferences of the participating ecosystem sites that have registered their preference information. At step S upon validation the presence manager updates the preference repository. Any number of a plurality of participating ecosystem sites that have registered to be notified about a particular type of user activity taking place at any number of a plurality of other participating ecosystem sites which are also members of the same participant ecosystem may now be have access to any user activity of this specified type.

In further aspects of the invention any number of a plurality of participating ecosystem sites may need to be notified of changes to the preference subset of any number of a plurality of users. By way of a non limiting example such notification may occur at step S. In embodiments such update notification may be dynamically pushed from the presence manager to the preference repository when there is any change in any preference subset for any number of a plurality of users. In further embodiments such update notification may be pulled by preference repository from the presence manager on a predetermined schedule.

In step S of the exemplary flow shown in participating ecosystem sites C and D register with the presence manager in order to be notified about specific user activity. In embodiments participating ecosystem sites C and D can request notification from the presence manager about specific user activity taking place on other participating ecosystem sites that are members of the same participant ecosystem. In this example at step S the user accesses any number of a plurality of participating ecosystem sites such as for example participating ecosystem site A. At step S the accessed participating ecosystem site A performs authentication authorization and tracking functions. At step S participating ecosystem site A sends a SOAP based notification of the user s activity which participating ecosystem site A has tracked to the presence manager.

Upon receipt of the notification the presence manager at step S validates the preferences of the participating ecosystem sites that have registered their preference information. Upon validation the presence manager sends notifications at step S to any of a plurality of participating ecosystem sites that have registered to be notified about a particular user activity taking place at any number of a plurality of other participating ecosystem sites which are members of the same participant ecosystem. In the exemplary case illustrated in participating ecosystem site C is one such participating ecosystem site that registered to be notified about the particular kind of user activity. As such participating ecosystem site C is one participating ecosystem site that may receive information about the activity of the user. Once participating ecosystem site C receives the information it may then choose at step S to share this information with other interested users on its site.

At step S the web browser of the user makes a direct Ajax based call to participating ecosystem site B. Participating ecosystem site B in turn sends a REST based notification to the presence manager at step S. At step S the presence manager processes the request and determines based on participating ecosystem site C s preferences at registration that participating ecosystem site C also should be informed of the activity of the user. In embodiments participating ecosystem site C much like any other participating ecosystem site may at any time after registration modify the preferences that specify the type of user activity taking place on any number of a plurality of other participating ecosystem sites in the same ecosystem that may be permissibly tracked. At step S the presence manager sends a notification to participating ecosystem site C of the user s activity on participating ecosystem site B. Participating ecosystem site C receives the information and at step S decides whether to render this information to users on its site that are determined to be interested parties.

At step S the web browser of users makes an Ajax call directly to the presence manager. The presence manager receives the information and at step S determines that participating ecosystem site D needs to be notified of the user activity taking place on any participating ecosystem site that is a member of the same participant ecosystem. In embodiments this determination is based on the preference settings established at time of registration of participating ecosystem site D and or the user. In embodiments this determination may be based on the preference settings established at time of registration of only participating ecosystem site D. In embodiments preferences for participating ecosystem sites and users may be determined at registration or at any point thereafter. Once the presence manager determines that participating ecosystem site D needs to be notified of the user activity the presence manager at step S sends a presence notification to participating ecosystem site D of this activity. Upon receiving the notification of the user s activity participating ecosystem site D in turn decides at step S whether or not to render this information to the relevant users on its site.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises and or comprising when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

The corresponding structures materials acts and equivalents of all means or step plus function elements if any in the claims below are intended to include any structure material or act for performing the function in combination with other claimed elements as specifically claimed. The description of the present invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description but is not intended to be exhaustive or limited to the invention in the form disclosed. Many modifications and variations will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention. The embodiments were chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the invention and the practical application and to enable others of ordinary skill in the art to understand the invention for various embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated.

