---

title: Treatment of specific cardiovascular conditions with nitrite
abstract: It has been surprisingly discovered that administration of nitrite to subjects causes a reduction in blood pressure and an increase in blood flow to tissues. The effect is particularly beneficial, for example, to tissues in regions of low oxygen tension. This discovery provides useful treatments to regulate a subject's blood pressure and blood flow, for example, by the administration of nitrite salts. Provided herein are methods of administering a pharmaceutically-acceptable nitrite salt to a subject, for treating, preventing or ameliorating a condition selected from: (a) ischemia-reperfusion injury (e.g., hepatic or cardiac or brain ischemia-reperfusion injury); (b) pulmonary hypertension (e.g., neonatal pulmonary hypertension); or (c) cerebral artery vasospasm.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09387224&OS=09387224&RS=09387224
owner: Loma Linda University
number: 09387224
owner_city: Loma Linda
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120228
---
This is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 10 563 683 filed Oct. 4 2006 which is a 371 U.S. national stage of PCT US2004 022232 filed Jul. 9 2004 which was published in English under PCT Article 2 2 and which in turn claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 485 959 filed Jul. 9 2003 and U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 511 244 filed Oct. 14 2003. All of the above listed applications are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

This invention was made with government support under Grant Nos. HL58091 and HL70146 awarded by the National Institutes of Health. The government has certain rights in the invention.

The last decade has seen an increase in the understanding of the critical role nitric oxide as a blood vessel dilator contributing to the regulation of blood flow and cardiovascular homeostasis. Nitric oxide may be oxidized in blood to nitrite NO an anion considered to be an inert metabolic end product of such nitric oxide oxidation. In vivo plasma levels of nitrite have been reported to range from 150 to 1000 nM and the nitrite concentration in aortic ring tissue has been reported to be in excess of 10 000 nM Rodriguez et al. 100 336 41 2003 Gladwin et al. 97 9943 8 2000 and Rassaf et al. 9 481 3 2003 . This potential storage pool for NO is in excess of plasma S nitrosothiols which have been reported to be less than 10 nM in human plasma Rassaf et al. 9 481 3 2003 Rassaf et al. 33 1590 6 2002 Rassaf et al. 109 1241 8 2002 and Schechter et al. 109 1149 51 2002 . Mechanisms have been proposed for the in vivo conversion of nitrite to NO for example by enzymatic reduction by xanthine oxidoreductase or by non enzymatic disproportionation acidic reduction Millar et al. 25 528S 1997 Millar et al. 427 225 8 1998 Godber et al. 275 7757 63 2000 Zhang et al. 249 767 72 1998 published erratum appears in 251 667 1998 Li et al. 276 24482 9 2001 Li et al. 42 1150 9 2003 Zweier et al. 1 804 9 1995 Zweier et al. 1411 250 62 1999 and Samouilov et al. 357 1 7 1998 .

Arterial to venous gradients of nitrite across the human forearm at rest and during regional NO synthase inhibition have been observed with increased consumption of nitrite occurring with exercise Gladwin et al. 97 9943 8 2000 Gladwin et al. 97 11482 11487 2000 and Cicinelli et al. 19 440 2 1999 . Kelm and colleagues have reported that large artery to vein gradients of nitrite form across the human forearm during NO synthase inhibition Lauer et al. 98 12814 9 2001 . Unlike the more simple case of oxygen extraction across a vascular bed nitrite may be both consumed as evidenced by artery to vein gradients during NO synthase inhibition and exercise and produced in the vascular bed by endothelial nitric oxide synthase derived NO reactions with oxygen.

At high concentrations nitrite has been reported to be a vasodilator in vitro Ignarro et al. 631 221 31 1980 Ignarro et al. 218 739 49 1981 Moulds et al. 11 57 61 1981 Gruetter et al. 219 181 6 1981 Matsunaga et al. 248 687 95 1989 and Laustiola et al. 68 60 3 1991 . The levels of nitrite shown to vasodilate in vitro have always been in excess of 100 000 nM 100 M and usually at millimolar concentrations.

Consistent with the high concentrations of nitrite required to vasodilate in vitro when Lauer and colleagues infused nitrite into the forearm circulation of human subjects they reported no vasodilatory effects even with concentrations of 200 M in the forearm Lauer et al. 98 12814 9 2001 . Lauer et al. reported that a complete lack of vasodilator activity of intraarterial infusions of nitrite clearly rules out any role for this metabolite in NO delivery and concluded that physiological levels of nitrite are vasodilator inactive. Furthermore Rassaf and colleagues also failed to find a vasodilatory effect in humans following infusion of nitrite Rassaf et al. 109 1241 8 2002 . Thus in vivo studies have concluded that physiological levels of nitrites do not serve as a source for NO and that physiological levels of nitrites do not have a role in regulating blood pressure.

Historically nitrite has been used as a treatment for cyanide poisoning. High concentrations are infused into a subject suffering cyanide poisoning in order to oxidize hemoglobin to methemoglobin which will bind cyanide. These high concentrations of nitrite produce clinically significant methemoglobinemia potentially decreasing oxygen delivery. While these high concentrations of nitrite have been shown to decrease blood pressure in humans the amount of methemoglobin formed precluded a use for nitrite in the treatment of other medical conditions.

Therefore the state of the art was that nitrite was not a significant vasodilator at concentrations below 100 M in vitro and even when infused into humans at concentrations of 200 M in the forearm. It was also the state of the art that nitrite was not converted to nitric oxide in the human blood stream.

It has been surprisingly discovered that administration of pharmaceutically acceptable salts of nitrite is useful in the regulation of the cardiovascular system. It has also been surprisingly discovered that nitrite is reduced to nitric oxide in vivo and that the nitric oxide produced thereby is an effective vasodilator. These effects surprisingly occur at doses that do not produce clinically significant methemoglobinemia. These discoveries now enable methods to prevent and treat conditions associated with the cardiovascular system for example high blood pressure pulmonary hypertension cerebral vasospasm and tissue ischemia reperfusion injury. These discoveries also provide methods to increase blood flow to tissues for example to tissues in regions of low oxygen tension. It is particularly surprising that the nitrite does not need to be applied in an acidified condition in order for it to be effective in regulating the cardiovascular system and more particularly to act as a vasodilator in vivo.

It has now been surprisingly discovered by the inventors that nitrite can serve as a vasodilator in humans at much lower concentrations as low as 0.9 M than have been used in the past for cyanide poisoning. The mechanism is believed to involve a reaction of nitrite with deoxygenated hemoglobin and red blood cells to produce the vasodilating gas nitric oxide. This potent biological effect is observed at doses of nitrite that do not produce clinically significant methemoglobinemia for instance less than 20 more preferably less than 5 methemoglobin in the subject .

It has been discovered that nitrite is converted to nitric oxide in vivo and that the nitric oxide produced thereby is an effective vasodilator. Further it has been surprisingly discovered that administration of nitrite for instance a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of nitrite to a subject causes a reduction in blood pressure and an increase in blood flow to tissues for example to tissues in regions of low oxygen tension. These discoveries now enable useful methods to regulate the cardiovascular system for instance to prevent and treat malconditions associated with the cardiovascular system for example high blood pressure or organs tissues or systems suffering a lack of or inadequate blood flow. Non limiting examples of contemplated malconditions include stroke heart disease kidney disease and failure eye damage including hypertensive retinopathy diabetes and migraines.

In one example embodiment the present disclosure provides a method for decreasing a subject s blood pressure or increasing blood flow including in a particular embodiment administering to the subject sodium nitrite at about 36 moles per minute into the forearm brachial artery.

The present disclosure additionally provides a method for increasing blood flow to a tissue of a subject including administering to the subject an effective amount of pharmaceutically acceptable nitrite such as a salt thereof so as to increase blood flow to a tissue of the subject. The blood flow may be specifically increased in tissues in regions of low oxygen tension. The present disclosure also provides a method for decreasing a subject s blood pressure comprising administering to the subject an effective amount of pharmaceutically acceptable nitrite so as to decrease the subject s blood pressure.

The present disclosure further provides a method for treating a subject having a condition associated with elevated blood pressure including administering to the subject an effective amount of pharmaceutically acceptable nitrite so as to treat at least one vascular complication associated with the elevated blood pressure.

Also provided is a method for treating a subject having a hemolytic condition including administering to the subject an effective amount of pharmaceutically acceptable nitrite so as to treat at least one vascular complication associated with the hemolytic condition.

The disclosure further provides a method for treating a subject having a condition associated with elevated blood pressure in the lungs e.g. pulmonary hypertension including administering to the subject an effective amount of pharmaceutically acceptable nitrite. In some embodiments this includes treating a subject having neonatal pulmonary hypertension. In some embodiments this includes treating a subject having primary and or secondary pulmonary hypertension. In some embodiments for treating subjects having a condition associated with elevated blood pressure in the lungs the nitrite is nebulized.

Also contemplated herein are methods for treating ameliorating or preventing other conditions of or associated with blood flow including vasospasm stroke angina revascularization of coronary arteries and other arteries peripheral vascular disease transplantation e.g. of kidney heart lung or liver treatment of low blood pressure such as that seen in shock or trauma surgery and cardiopulmonary arrest to prevent reperfusion injury to vital organs cutaneous ulcers e.g. with topical non acidified nitrite salt Raynauds phenomenon treatment of hemolytic conditions such as sickle cell malaria TTP and HUS hemolysis caused by immune incompatibility before and after birth and other conditions listed herein.

Also provided herein are methods of administering a pharmaceutically acceptable nitrite salt to a subject for treating preventing or ameliorating a condition selected from a ischemia reperfusion injury e.g. hepatic or cardiac or brain ischemia reperfusion injury b pulmonary hypertension e.g. neonatal pulmonary hypertension or c cerebral artery vasospasm. Also contemplated are methods for treatment prevention and or amelioration of gestational or fetal cardiovascular malconditions.

The foregoing and other features and advantages will become more apparent from the following detailed description of several embodiments which proceeds with reference to the accompanying figures.

Unless otherwise noted terms used herein should be accorded their standard definitions and conventional usage. For example one of skill in the art can obtain definitions for the terms used herein in dictionaries and reference textbooks for example 26Ed. Williams and Wilkins Editor M. Spraycar 1995 Oxford University Press Eds E. Jewell and F. Abate 2001 Sambrook et al. 3Ed. Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press 2001 and 11Ed. Eds. N. I. Sax and R. J. Lewis Sr. Van Nostrand Reinhold New York N.Y. 1987 VCH Publishers Inc. 1995 ISBN 1 56081 569 8 .

In order to facilitate review of the various embodiments the following explanations of specific terms are provided 

Animal Living multi cellular vertebrate organisms a category that includes for example mammals and birds. The term mammal includes both human and non human mammals.

Cerebral ischemia or ischemic stroke A condition that occurs when an artery to or in the brain is partially or completely blocked such that the oxygen demand of the tissue exceeds the oxygen supplied. Deprived of oxygen and other nutrients following an ischemic stroke the brain suffers damage as a result of the stroke.

Ischemic stroke can be caused by several different kinds of diseases. The most common problem is narrowing of the arteries in the neck or head. This is most often caused by atherosclerosis or gradual cholesterol deposition. If the arteries become too narrow blood cells may collect in them and form blood clots thrombi . These blood clots can block the artery where they are formed thrombosis or can dislodge and become trapped in arteries closer to the brain embolism .

Another cause of stroke is blood clots in the heart which can occur as a result of irregular heartbeat for example atrial fibrillation heart attack or abnormalities of the heart valves. While these are the most common causes of ischemic stroke there are many other possible causes. Examples include use of street drugs traumatic injury to the blood vessels of the neck or disorders of blood clotting.

Ischemic stroke is by far the most common kind of stroke accounting for about 80 of all strokes. Stroke can affect people of all ages including children. Many people with ischemic strokes are older 60 or more years old and the risk of stroke increases with older ages. At each age stroke is more common in men than women and it is more common among African Americans than white Americans. Many people with stroke have other problems or conditions which put them at higher risk for stroke such as high blood pressure hypertension heart disease smoking or diabetes.

Fetal A term describing the time period in the latter part of pregnancy when organ systems are functional and blood flow patterns are established for central critical organs such as the heart brain and lungs.

Injectable composition A pharmaceutically acceptable fluid composition comprising at least one active ingredient for example a salt of nitrite. The active ingredient is usually dissolved or suspended in a physiologically acceptable carrier and the composition can additionally comprise minor amounts of one or more non toxic auxiliary substances such as emulsifying agents preservatives pH buffering agents and the like. Such injectable compositions that are useful for use with the compositions of this disclosure are conventional appropriate formulations are well known in the art.

Ischemia A vascular phenomenon in which a decrease in the blood supply to a bodily organ tissue or part is caused for instance by constriction or obstruction of one or more blood vessels. Ischemia sometimes results from vasoconstriction or thrombosis or embolism. Ischemia can lead to direct ischemic injury tissue damage due to cell death caused by reduced oxygen supply.

Ischemia reperfusion injury In addition to the immediate injury that occurs during deprivation of blood flow ischemic reperfusion injury involves tissue injury that occurs after blood flow is restored. Current understanding is that much of this injury is caused by chemical products and free radicals released into the ischemic tissues.

When a tissue is subjected to ischemia a sequence of chemical events is initiated that may ultimately lead to cellular dysfunction and necrosis. If ischemia is ended by the restoration of blood flow a second series of injurious events ensue producing additional injury. Thus whenever there is a transient decrease or interruption of blood flow in a subject the resultant injury involves two components the direct injury occurring during the ischemic interval and the indirect or reperfusion injury that follows. When there is a long duration of ischemia the direct ischemic damage resulting from hypoxia is predominant. For relatively short duration ischemia the indirect or reperfusion mediated damage becomes increasingly important. In some instances the injury produced by reperfusion can be more severe than the injury induced by ischemia per se. This pattern of relative contribution of injury from direct and indirect mechanisms has been shown to occur in all organs.

Methemoglobin The oxidized form of hemoglobin in which the iron in the heme component has been oxidized from the ferrous 2 to the ferric 3 state. This renders the hemoglobin molecule incapable of effectively transporting and releasing oxygen to the tissues. Normally there is about 1 of total hemoglobin in the methemoglobin form.

Methemoglobinemia A condition in which a substantial portion of the hemoglobin in the blood of a subject is in the form of methemoglobin making it unable to carry oxygen effectively to the tissues. Methemoglobinemia can be an inherited disorder but it also can be acquired through exposure to chemicals such as nitrates nitrate contaminated water aniline dyes and potassium chlorate. It is not the presence of methemoglobin but the amount that is important in the clinical setting. The following provides rough indications of symptoms associated with different levels of methemoglobin in the blood 35 symptoms of hypoxia such as dyspnea and lethargy 50 60 acidosis arrhythmias coma convulsions bradycardia severe hypoxia seizures 70 usually results in death. Neonate A term describing the human or animal organism in the time period after birth and extending until the adjustments from fetal to newborn life are completed.

Nitrite The inorganic anion NOor a salt of nitrous acid NO . Nitrites are often highly soluble and can be oxidized to form nitrates or reduced to form nitric oxide or ammonia. Nitrite may form salts with alkali metals such as sodium NaNO also known as nitrous acid sodium salt potassium and lithium with alkali earth metals such as calcium magnesium and barium with organic bases such as amine bases for example dicyclohexylamine pyridine arginine lysine and the like. Other nitrite salts may be formed from a variety of organic and inorganic bases. In particular embodiments the nitrite is a salt of an anionic nitrite delivered with a cation which cation is selected from sodium potassium and arginine. Many nitrite salts are commercially available and or readily produced using conventional techniques.

Parenteral Administered outside of the intestine for example not via the alimentary tract. Generally parenteral formulations are those that will be administered through any possible mode except ingestion. This term especially refers to injections whether administered intravenously intrathecally intramuscularly intraperitoneally or subcutaneously and various surface applications including intranasal intradermal and topical application for instance.

Pharmaceutically acceptable carriers The pharmaceutically acceptable carriers useful in this disclosure are conventional. by E. W. Martin Mack Publishing Co. Easton Pa. 15th Edition 1975 describes compositions and formulations suitable for pharmaceutical delivery of the compounds herein disclosed.

In general the nature of the carrier will depend on the particular mode of administration being employed. For instance parenteral formulations usually comprise injectable fluids that include pharmaceutically and physiologically acceptable fluids such as water physiological saline balanced salt solutions aqueous dextrose glycerol or the like as a vehicle. For solid compositions for example powder pill tablet or capsule forms conventional non toxic solid carriers can include for example pharmaceutical grades of mannitol lactose starch or magnesium stearate. In addition to biologically neutral carriers pharmaceutical compositions to be administered can contain minor amounts of non toxic auxiliary substances such as wetting or emulsifying agents preservatives and pH buffering agents and the like for example sodium acetate or sorbitan monolaurate.

Peripheral Vascular Disease PVD A condition in which the arteries that carry blood to the arms or legs become narrowed or occluded. This interferes with the normal flow of blood sometimes causing pain but often causing no readily detectable symptoms at all.

The most common cause of PVD is atherosclerosis a gradual process in which cholesterol and scar tissue build up forming plaques that occlude the blood vessels. In some cases PVD may be caused by blood clots that lodge in the arteries and restrict blood flow. PVD affects about one in 20 people over the age of 50 or 8 million people in the United States. More than half the people with PVD experience leg pain numbness or other symptoms but many people dismiss these signs as a normal part of aging and do not seek medical help. The most common symptom of PVD is painful cramping in the leg or hip particularly when walking This symptom also known as claudication occurs when there is not enough blood flowing to the leg muscles during exercise such that ischemia occurs. The pain typically goes away when the muscles are rested.

Other symptoms may include numbness tingling or weakness in the leg. In severe cases people with PVD may experience a burning or aching pain in an extremity such as the foot or toes while resting or may develop a sore on the leg or foot that does not heal. People with PVD also may experience a cooling or color change in the skin of the legs or feet or loss of hair on the legs. In extreme cases untreated PVD can lead to gangrene a serious condition that may require amputation of a leg foot or toes. People with PVD are also at higher risk for heart disease and stroke.

A pharmaceutical agent or drug refers to a chemical compound or other composition capable of inducing a desired therapeutic or prophylactic effect when properly administered to a subject.

Placenta A vascular organ that provides for metabolic exchange between mother and fetus in mammals. It delivers oxygen water and nutrients to the fetus from the mother s blood and secretes the hormones necessary for successful pregnancy. In addition it carries wastes away from the fetus to be processed in the mother s body.

Preeclampsia A disease of unknown cause in pregnant women characterized by hypertension abnormal blood vessels in the placenta and protein in the urine. It often but not always occurs with gestational diabetes or in diabetics. Additional symptoms may include water retention leading to swelling in the face hands and feet and greater weight gain. Also called toxemia. Preeclampsia can lead to eclampsia if not treated. The only known cure for preeclampsia is delivery of the child.

Preventing or treating a disease Preventing a disease refers to inhibiting the full development of a disease. Treatment refers to a therapeutic intervention that ameliorates a sign or symptom of a disease or pathological condition after it has begun to develop.

Purified The term purified does not require absolute purity rather it is intended as a relative term. Thus for example a purified nitrite salt preparation is one in which the specified nitrite salt is more enriched than it is in its generative environment for instance within a biochemical reaction chamber. Preferably a preparation of a specified nitrite salt is purified such that the salt represents at least 50 of the total nitrite content of the preparation. In some embodiments a purified preparation contains at least 60 at least 70 at least 80 at least 85 at least 90 at least 95 or more of the specified compound such as a particular nitrite salt.

Reperfusion Restoration of blood supply to tissue that is ischemic due to decrease in blood supply. Reperfusion is a procedure for treating infarction or other ischemia by enabling viable ischemic tissue to recover thus limiting further necrosis. However it is thought that reperfusion can itself further damage the ischemic tissue causing reperfusion injury.

Subject Living multi cellular organisms including vertebrate organisms a category that includes both human and non human mammals.

Therapeutically effective amount of a vasodilator A quantity of compound such as a nitrite salt sufficient to achieve a desired effect in a subject being treated. For instance this can be the amount necessary to treat or ameliorate relatively high blood pressure or to measurably decrease blood pressure over a period of time or to measurably inhibit an increase in blood pressure in a subject.

An effective amount of a vasodilator may be administered in a single dose or in several doses for example daily during a course of treatment. However the effective amount will be dependent on the compound applied the subject being treated the severity and type of the affliction and the manner of administration of the compound. For example a therapeutically effective amount of an active ingredient can be measured as the concentration moles per liter or molar M of the active ingredient such as a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of nitrite in blood in vivo or a buffer in vitro that produces an effect.

By way of example as described herein it is now shown that pharmaceutically acceptable salts of nitrite such as sodium nitrite are effective as vasodilators at calculated dosages of about 0.6 to about 200 M final concentration of nitrite in the circulating blood of a subject which level can be determined empirically or through calculations. Specific levels can be reached for instance by providing less than about 200 mg or less nitrite in a single dose or a dose provided over a period of time e.g. by infusion or inhalation . For instance other dosages may be 150 mg 100 mg 75 mg 50 mg or less. Specific example dosages of nitrite salts are provided herein though the examples are not intended to be limiting. Exact dosage amounts will vary by the size of the subject being treated the duration of the treatment the mode of administration and so forth.

Particularly beneficial therapeutically effective amounts of a vasodilator such as a pharmaceutically acceptable nitrite salt e.g. sodium nitrite are those that are effective for vasodilation or increasing blood flow but not so high that a significant or toxic level of methemoglobin is produced in the subject to which the vasodilator is administered. In specific embodiments for instance no more than about 25 methemoglobin is produced in the subject. More preferably no more than 20 no more than 15 no more than 10 no more than 8 or less methemoglobin is produced for instance as little as 5 or 3 or less in response to treatment with the vasodilator.

The compounds discussed herein have equal application in medical and veterinary settings. Therefore the general term subject being treated is understood to include all animals for example humans apes laboratory animals companion animals etc. that are or may be suffering from an aberration in blood pressure such as hypertension.

Vasoconstriction. The diminution of the caliber or cross sectional area of a blood vessel for instance constriction of arterioles leading to decreased blood flow to a body part. This can be caused by a specific vasoconstrictor an agent for instance a chemical or biochemical compound that causes directly or indirectly constriction of blood vessels. Such an agent can also be referred to as a vasohypertonic agent and is said to have vasoconstrictive activity. A representative category of vasoconstrictors is the vasopressor from the term pressor tending to increase blood pressure which term is generally used to refer to an agent that stimulates contraction of the muscular tissue of the capillaries and arteries.

Vasoconstriction also can be due to vasospasm inadequate vasodilatation thickening of the vessel wall or the accumulation of flow restricting materials on the internal wall surfaces or within the wall itself. Vasoconstriction is a major presumptive or proven factor in aging and in various clinical conditions including progressive generalized atherogenesis myocardial infarction stroke hypertension glaucoma macular degeneration migraine hypertension and diabetes mellitus among others.

Vasodilation. A state of increased caliber of the blood vessels or the act of dilation of a blood vessel for instance dilation of arterioles leading to increased blood flow to a body part. This can be caused by a specific vasodilator an agent for instance a chemical or biochemical compound that causes directly or indirectly dilation of blood vessels. Such an agent can also be referred to as a vasohypotonic agent and is said to have vasodilative activity.

Vasospasm Another cause of stroke occurs secondary to spasm of blood vessels supplying the brain. This type of stroke typically follows a subarachnoid aneurismal hemorrhage with a delayed development of vasospasm within 2 3 weeks of the bleeding event. A similar type of stroke may complicate sickle cell disease.

Unless otherwise explained all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this invention belongs. The singular terms a an and the include plural referents unless context clearly indicates otherwise. Similarly the word or is intended to include and unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. Hence comprising A or B means including A or B or A and B. It is further to be understood that all base sizes or amino acid sizes and all molecular weight or molecular mass values given for nucleic acids or polypeptides are approximate and are provided for description. Although methods and materials similar or equivalent to those described herein can be used in the practice or testing of the present invention suitable methods and materials are described below. All publications patent applications patents and other references mentioned herein are incorporated by reference in their entirety. In case of conflict the present specification including explanations of terms will control. In addition the materials methods and examples are illustrative only and not intended to be limiting.

It has been surprisingly discovered that administration of pharmaceutically acceptable salts of nitrite is useful in the regulation of the cardiovascular system. It has also been surprisingly discovered that nitrite is reduced to nitric oxide in vivo and that the nitric oxide produced thereby is an effective vasodilator. These effects surprisingly occur at doses that do not produce clinically significant methemoglobinemia. These discoveries now enable methods to prevent and treat conditions associated with the cardiovascular system for example high blood pressure pulmonary hypertension cerebral vasospasm and tissue ischemia reperfusion injury. These discoveries also provide methods to increase blood flow to tissues for example to tissues in regions of low oxygen tension. It is particularly surprising that the nitrite does not need to be applied in an acidified condition in order for it to be effective in regulating the cardiovascular system and more particularly to act as a vasodilator in vivo.

Accordingly the present disclosure provides in one embodiment a method for decreasing a subject s blood pressure including administering to the subject sodium nitrite at about 36 moles per minute or less into the forearm brachial artery or intravenously.

The present disclosure also provides a method for decreasing a subject s blood pressure including administering to the subject an effective amount of pharmaceutically acceptable nitrite so as to decrease or lower or reduce the subject s blood pressure. Another embodiment is a method for treating a subject having a condition associated with elevated blood pressure including administering to the subject an effective amount of pharmaceutically acceptable nitrite so as to treat at least one vascular complication associated with the elevated blood pressure. Also provided is a method for treating a subject having a hemolytic condition including administering to the subject an effective amount of pharmaceutically acceptable nitrite so as to treat at least one vascular complication associated with the hemolytic condition.

The present disclosure additionally provides a method for increasing blood flow to a tissue of a subject including administering to the subject an effective amount of pharmaceutically acceptable nitrite so as to increase blood flow to a tissue of the subject. Also provided is a method for producing an amount of NO in a subject effective the decrease the subject s blood pressure including administering a pharmaceutically acceptable nitrite to the subject.

The present disclosure further provides a pharmaceutical composition comprising an effective amount of a pharmaceutically acceptable nitrite and a carrier.

In some embodiments the vascular complication is one or more selected from the group consisting of pulmonary hypertension including neonatal pulmonary hypertension primary pulmonary hypertension and secondary pulmonary hypertension systemic hypertension cutaneous ulceration acute renal failure chronic renal failure intravascular thrombosis an ischemic central nervous system event and death.

In some embodiments the hemolytic condition includes one or more selected from sickle cell anemia thalassemia hemoglobin C disease hemoglobin SC disease sickle thalassemia hereditary spherocytosis hereditary elliptocytosis hereditary ovalcytosis glucose 6 phosphate deficiency and other red blood cell enzyme deficiencies paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria PNH paroxysmal cold hemoglobinuria PCH thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura hemolytic uremic syndrome TTP HUS idiopathic autoimmune hemolytic anemia drug induced immune hemolytic anemia secondary immune hemolytic anemia non immune hemolytic anemia caused by chemical or physical agents malaria falciparum malaria bartonellosis babesiosis clostridial infection severe Haemophilus influenzae type b infection extensive burns transfusion reaction rhabdomyolysis myoglobinemia transfusion of aged blood cardiopulmonary bypass and hemodialysis.

In some embodiments the decreased blood flow to the tissue is caused directly or indirectly by at least one of the following conditions sickle cell anemia thalassemia hemoglobin C disease hemoglobin SC disease sickle thalassemia hereditary spherocytosis hereditary elliptocytosis hereditary ovalcytosis glucose 6 phosphate deficiency and other red blood cell enzyme deficiencies paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria PNH paroxysmal cold hemoglobinuria PCH thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura hemolytic uremic syndrome TTP HUS idiopathic autoimmune hemolytic anemia drug induced immune hemolytic anemia secondary immune hemolytic anemia non immune hemolytic anemia caused by chemical or physical agents malaria falciparum malaria bartonellosis babesiosis clostridial infection severe Haemophilus influenzae type b infection extensive burns transfusion reaction rhabdomyolysis myoglobinemia transfusion of aged blood transfusion of hemoglobin transfusion of red blood cells cardiopulmonary bypass coronary disease cardiac ischemia syndrome angina iatrogenic hemolysis angioplasty myocardial ischemia tissue ischemia hemolysis caused by intravascular devices hemodialysis pulmonary hypertension systemic hypertension cutaneous ulceration acute renal failure chronic renal failure intravascular thrombosis and an ischemic central nervous system event.

In some embodiments the tissue is an ischemic tissue. In some embodiments the administration is parenteral oral buccal rectal ex vivo or intraocular. In some embodiments the administration is peritoneal intravenous intraarterial subcutaneous inhaled or intramuscular. In some embodiments the nitrite is administered to the subject in an environment of low oxygen tension or acts in an area of the subject s body that displays relatively low oxygen tension. In some embodiments the nitrite is administered as a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of nitrite such as for instance sodium nitrite potassium nitrite or arginine nitrite. In some embodiments the nitrite is administered in combination with at least one additional active agent. It is specifically contemplated that in certain embodiments that the subject is a mammal for instance a human.

The disclosure further provides a method for treating a subject having a condition associated with elevated blood pressure in the lungs e.g. pulmonary hypertension including administering to the subject an effective amount of pharmaceutically acceptable nitrite. In some embodiments this includes treating a subject having neonatal pulmonary hypertension. In some embodiments this includes treating a subject having primary and or secondary pulmonary hypertension. In some embodiments for treating subjects having a condition associated with elevated blood pressure in the lungs the nitrite is nebulized.

The disclosure also provides suggestions for a means of treating hypertension and or preeclampsia in pregnant women. Such therapy would include action of nitrites on spastic and diseased blood vessels within the placenta.

The disclosure also provides suggestions for treating in utero fetuses with cardiovascular anomalies hypertension and or misdirected blood flow. In such approaches nitrite may be administered by introduction into the amniotic cavity either directly or by osmotic minipumps the latter to achieve sustained release throughout days and weeks of pregnancy.

Thus there is provided herein a method for inducing vasodilation and or increasing blood flow in a subject which method involves administering to the subject an effective amount of a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of nitrite for a sufficient period of time to induce vasodilation and or increase blood flow in the subject. Non limiting examples of pharmaceutically acceptable salts of nitrite include sodium nitrite potassium nitrite and arginine nitrite. In examples of the provided methods the pharmaceutically acceptable salt of nitrite reacts in the presence of hemoglobin in the subject to release nitric oxide.

It is a specific advantage of methods provided herein that the effective amount of the pharmaceutically acceptable salt of nitrite administered to the subject does not induce toxic levels of methemoglobin and in many embodiments does not induced formation of clinically significant amounts of methemoglobin in the subject. Therefore contemplated herein are methods in which the effective amount of the pharmaceutically acceptable salt of nitrite when administered to the subject induces production in the subject of no more than about 25 methemoglobin no more than about 20 methemoglobin no more than about 10 methemoglobin no more than about 8 methemoglobin or no more than about 5 methemoglobin. Beneficially examples of the provided methods induce production of even less than 5 methemoglobin for instance no more than about 3 methemoglobin less than 3 less than 2 or even less than 1 .

In one specific example of a method for inducing vasodilation and or increasing blood flow in a subject sodium nitrite is administered by injection at about 36 moles per minute for at least five minutes into the forearm brachial artery of the subject.

The effective amount of the pharmaceutically acceptable salt of nitrite is administered in various embodiments to a circulating concentration in the subject of about 0.6 to 240 M measured locally to the site of administration or generally in the subject. It is noted that the local level of nitrite is expected to be higher than the general circulating level particularly in short delivery regimens in long term delivery regimens such as delivery using a pump or injector or by inhalation the system wide or general nitrite level is expected to near the level measured near the administration site.

Administration of the pharmaceutically acceptable nitrite can be for instance parenteral oral buccal rectal ex vivo or intraocular in certain embodiments. In various embodiments it is also contemplated that the administration of the nitrite can be peritoneal intravenous intraarterial subcutaneous inhaled intramuscular or into a cardiopulmonary bypass circuit. Combinations of two or more routes of administration are also contemplated.

In various embodiments of the method for inducing vasodilation and or increasing blood flow in a subject the subject is a mammal. It is particularly contemplated that the subject can be a human.

Combination therapy methods are contemplated wherein the nitrite is administered in combination with at least one additional agent. By way of non limiting examples the additional agent is one or more selected from the list consisting of penicillin hydroxyurea butyrate clotrimazole arginine or a phosphodiesterase inhibitor such as sildenafil .

In another embodiment of the method for inducing vasodilation and or increasing blood flow in a subject the subject has elevated blood pressure and the method is a method for treating at least one vascular complication associated with the elevated blood pressure or the subject has a hemolytic condition and the method is a method for treating at least one vascular complication associated with the hemolytic condition. Optionally the subject may have both elevated blood pressure and a hemolytic condition.

In examples of the methods provided herein the at least one vascular complication is one or more selected from the group consisting of pulmonary hypertension systemic hypertension peripheral vascular disease trauma cardiac arrest general surgery organ transplantation cutaneous ulceration acute renal failure chronic renal failure intravascular thrombosis angina an ischemia reperfusion event an ischemic central nervous system event and death.

In examples of the methods in which the subject has a hemolytic condition the hemolytic condition is one or more selected from the group consisting of sickle cell anemia thalassemia hemoglobin C disease hemoglobin SC disease sickle thalassemia hereditary spherocytosis hereditary elliptocytosis hereditary ovalcytosis glucose 6 phosphate deficiency and other red blood cell enzyme deficiencies paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria PNH paroxysmal cold hemoglobinuria PCH thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura hemolytic uremic syndrome TTP HUS idiopathic autoimmune hemolytic anemia drug induced immune hemolytic anemia secondary immune hemolytic anemia non immune hemolytic anemia caused by chemical or physical agents malaria falciparum malaria bartonellosis babesiosis clostridial infection severe Haemophilus influenzae type b infection extensive burns transfusion reaction rhabdomyolysis myoglobinemia transfusion of aged blood transfusion of hemoglobin transfusion of red blood cells cardiopulmonary bypass coronary disease cardiac ischemia syndrome angina iatrogenic hemolysis angioplasty myocardial ischemia tissue ischemia hemolysis caused by intravascular devices and hemodialysis.

In yet another embodiment of the method for inducing vasodilation and or increasing blood flow in a subject the subject has a condition associated with decreased blood flow to a tissue and the method is a method to increase blood flow to the tissue of the subject. For instance in examples of this method the decreased blood flow to the tissue is caused directly or indirectly by at least one condition selected from the group consisting of sickle cell anemia thalassemia hemoglobin C disease hemoglobin SC disease sickle thalassemia hereditary spherocytosis hereditary elliptocytosis hereditary ovalcytosis glucose 6 phosphate deficiency and other red blood cell enzyme deficiencies paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria PNH paroxysmal cold hemoglobinuria PCH thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura hemolytic uremic syndrome TTP HUS idiopathic autoimmune hemolytic anemia drug induced immune hemolytic anemia secondary immune hemolytic anemia non immune hemolytic anemia caused by chemical or physical agents malaria falciparum malaria bartonellosis babesiosis clostridial infection severe Haemophilus influenzae type b infection extensive burns transfusion reaction rhabdomyolysis myoglobinemia transfusion of aged blood transfusion of hemoglobin transfusion of red blood cells cardiopulmonary bypass coronary disease cardiac ischemia syndrome angina iatrogenic hemolysis angioplasty myocardial ischemia tissue ischemia hemolysis caused by intravascular devices hemodialysis pulmonary hypertension systemic hypertension cutaneous ulceration acute renal failure chronic renal failure intravascular thrombosis and an ischemic central nervous system event.

It is specifically contemplated in examples of this method that the tissue is an ischemic tissue for instance one or more tissues selected from the group consisting of neuronal tissue bowel tissue intestinal tissue limb tissue lung tissue central nervous tissue or cardiac tissue.

Also provided are methods for inducing vasodilation and or increasing blood flow in a subject having elevated blood pressure wherein the elevated blood pressure comprises elevated blood pressure in the lungs. By way of example it is contemplated that such subject in some instances has neonatal pulmonary hypertension or primary and or secondary pulmonary hypertension.

In examples of embodiments where the elevated blood pressure or need for increased blood flow in the subject comprises elevated blood pressure or need for increased blood flow in the lungs the pharmaceutically acceptable salt of nitrite is nebulized.

By way of example in various embodiments the pharmaceutically acceptable salt of nitrite is administered to a circulating concentration in the subject of no more than about 100 M no more than about 50 M no more than about 20 M no more than about 16 M or less than about 16 M.

Another embodiment is a method for treating or ameliorating a condition selected from a hepatic or cardiac or brain ischemia reperfusion injury b pulmonary hypertension or c cerebral artery vasospasm in a subject by decreasing blood pressure and or increasing vasodilation in the subject the method comprising administering sodium nitrite to the subject to decrease the blood pressure and or increase vasodilation in the subject thereby treating or ameliorating the condition.

In specific examples of this embodiment the method is a method for treating or ameliorating hepatic or cardiac or brain ischemia reperfusion injury. Optionally the sodium nitrite is administered to the subject via injection for instance intravenous injection. In certain examples the sodium nitrite is administered to a circulating concentration of about 0.6 to 240 M.

In other specific examples of this embodiment the method is a method for treating or ameliorating pulmonary hypertension such as for instance neonatal pulmonary hypertension. Beneficially in such methods the sodium nitrite can be administered to the subject by inhalation for instance it can be nebulized. Optionally in any of these methods the sodium nitrite is administered at a rate of 270 mol minute though other rates and circulating levels are contemplated.

Also provided in other examples of this embodiment are methods for treating or ameliorating cerebral artery vasospasm. Optionally the sodium nitrite is administered to the subject via injection for instance intravenous injection. In examples of such methods the sodium nitrite is administered at a rate of about 45 to 60 mg kg.

In examples of the described methods optionally the sodium nitrite can be administered in combination with at least one additional agent.

In any of the described methods it is contemplated that the subject can be a mammal such as for instance a human.

Nitrite anions are present in concentrations of about 150 1000 nM in the plasma and about 10 M in aortic tissue. This represents the largest vascular storage pool of nitric oxide NO provided physiological mechanisms exist to reduce nitrite to NO. The vasodilator properties of nitrite in the human forearm and the mechanisms extant for its bioactivation have been investigated and results are reported herein. Sodium nitrite was infused at about 36 moles per minute into the forearm brachial artery of 18 normal volunteers resulting in a regional nitrite concentration of about 222 M and an immediate about 175 increase in resting forearm blood flow. Increased blood flow was observed at rest during NO synthase inhibition and with exercise and resulted in increased tissue perfusion as demonstrated by increases in venous hemoglobin oxygen saturation partial pressure of oxygen and pH. Systemic concentrations of nitrite increased to about 16 M and significantly reduced mean arterial blood pressure. In an additional six subjects the dose of nitrite was reduced about 2 logs and infused at 360 nmoles per minute resulting in a forearm nitrite concentration of about 2 M and an about 22 increase in blood flow.

Nitrite infusions were associated with the formation of erythrocyte iron nitrosyl hemoglobin and to a lesser extent S nitroso hemoglobin across the forearm vasculature. The formation of NO modified hemoglobin appears to result from the nitrite reductase activity of deoxyhemoglobin linking tissue hypoxia and nitrite bioactivation.

These results indicate that physiological levels of blood and tissue nitrite represent a major bioavailable pool of NO that contributes to vaso regulation and provides a mechanism for hypoxic vasodilation via reaction of vascular nitrite with deoxygenated heme proteins. Substantial blood flow effects of nitrite infusion into the brachial artery of normal human subjects results from forearm nitrite concentrations as low as about 0.9 M.

By way of example as described herein it is now shown that pharmaceutically acceptable salts of nitrite such as sodium nitrite are effective as vasodilators at calculated dosages of about 0.6 to about 200 M final concentration of nitrite in the circulating blood of a subject. Specific circulating levels locally or generally in the subject can be reached for instance by providing less than about 200 mg or less nitrite in a single dose or a dose provided over a period of time e.g. by infusion or inhalation . For instance other dosages may be 150 mg 100 mg 75 mg 50 mg or less. Specific example dosages of nitrite salts are provided herein though the examples are not intended to be limiting. Exact dosage amounts will vary by the size of the subject being treated the duration of the treatment the mode of administration and so forth.

Infusion rates can be calculated for any given desired target circulating concentration by using the following equation Infusion rate M min target concentration mol L or M Clearance L min 

The rate of clearance has been calculated based on empirical results including those reported herein.

By way of example when sodium nitrite is infused into a human forearm at 36 micromoles Mol per minute the concentration measured coming out of forearm is about 222 M and about 16 M in whole body after 15 minutes infusion. The background level of circulating nitrite in mammals is low around 150 500 nanoM.

Particularly beneficial therapeutically effective amounts of a vasodilator such as a pharmaceutically acceptable nitrite salt e.g. sodium nitrite are those that are effective for vasodilation or increasing blood flow but not so high that a significant or toxic level of methemoglobin is produced in the subject to which the vasodilator is administered. In specific embodiments for instance no more than about 25 methemoglobin is produced in the subject. More preferably no more than 20 no more than 15 no more than 10 no more than 8 or less methemoglobin is produced for instance as little as 5 or 3 or less in response to treatment with the vasodilator.

By way of specific example nitrite can be infused at concentrations less than 40 Mol per minute intravenously or intraarterially or given by mouth. Importantly doses used are less than those used for the treatment of cyanide poisoning which are designed to induce clinically significant methemoglobinemia. Surprisingly the doses described herein for the treatment prevention of cardiovascular conditions produce significant and beneficial clinical effects without clinically significant methemoglobin production.

Relatively complex inorganic organic nitrite compounds and nitrate compounds have been utilized clinically to treat disorders including angina. These drugs e.g. glyceryl trinitrate suffer from tolerance requiring increases in dosage in order to maintain the same effect however and are distinct vasodilators compared to nitrite. For example the former require cellular thiols for metabolism whereas nitrite or the nitrite salts discussed herein e.g. sodium nitrite do not.

The levels of both iron nitrosyl and S nitroso hemoglobin formed in vivo in this study are striking During a transit time of less than 10 seconds through the forearm circulation during exercise infused nitrite 200 M regional concentration produced approximately 750 nM iron nitrosyl hemoglobin and 200 nM SNO Hb. The formation of both NO hemoglobin adducts was inversely correlated with hemoglobin oxygen saturation which fell during exercise stress measured from the antecubital vein by co oximetry for iron nitrosyl hemoglobin r 0.7 P

These data are consistent with the reaction of nitrite with deoxyhemoglobin to form NO and iron nitrosyl hemoglobin Doyle et al. 256 12393 12398 1981 . Nitrite is first reduced to form NO and methemoglobin with a rate constant of 2.9 Msec measured at 25 C. pH 7.0 . This reaction will be pseudo first order governed by the amounts 20 mM of intra erythrocytic hemoglobin and limited by the rate of nitrite uptake by the erythrocyte membrane. NO then binds to deoxyhemoglobin to form iron nitrosyl hemoglobin escapes the erythrocyte or reacts with other higher oxides such as NO to form NOand S nitroso hemoglobin.

Equation Series 1 NO nitrite HbFe deoxyhemoglobin H HbFe methemoglobin NO OH NO HbFe deoxyhemoglobin HbFeNO iron nitrosyl hemoglobin 

The formation of significant amounts of S nitroso hemoglobin in vivo during nitrite infusion was also observed. Luschinger and colleagues 100 461 6 2003 recently proposed that nitrite reacts with deoxyhemoglobin to make iron nitrosyl hemoglobin with subsequent transfer of the NO to the cysteine 93 to form S nitroso hemoglobin mediated by reoxygenation and quaternary T to R transition of hemoglobin. However a direct transfer of NO from the heme to the thiol requires NO oxidation to NO and such cycling has not been reproduced by other research groups. Fernandez and colleagues have recently suggested that nitrite catalyzes the reductive nitrosylation of methemoglobin by NO a process that generates the intermediate nitrosating species dinitrogen teraoxide NO 42 2 4 2003 . However nitrite reactions with hemoglobin provide ideal conditions for NO and S nitrosothiol generation along the oxygen gradient as nitrite reacts with deoxyhemoglobin to form NO and with oxyhemoglobin to form nitrogen dioxide NO radical. NOparticipates in radical radical reactions k 10Msec with NO to form NOand S nitrosothiol. Additional chemistry of nitrite with hemoglobin produces reactive oxygen metabolites such as superoxide and hydrogen peroxide Watanabe et al. 35 173 8 1981 Kosaka et al. 702 237 41 1982 and Kosaka et al. 73 147 51 1987 . Chemistry involving such NO radical oxygen radical reactions provides competitive pathways for S nitrosothiol formation in the presence of high affinity NO sinks such as hemoglobin.

The last decade has seen an increase in the understanding of the critical role nitric oxide NO plays in vascular homeostasis. The balance between production of NO and scavenging of NO determines NO bioavailability and this balance is carefully maintained in normal physiology. The homeostatic vasoregulatory system is apparently fine tuned to scavenge excess NO to limit gross endocrine actions while allowing for sufficient local NO necessary for regional tonic vasodilation. However rapid NO scavenging by cell free hemoglobin disrupts this balance Reiter et al. 8 1383 1389 2002 . Under normal physiological conditions hemoglobin is rapidly and effectively cleared by the hemoglobin scavenger system. However chronic hemolytic conditions such as sickle cell disease result in the daily release of substantial quantities of hemoglobin into the vasculature suggesting that cell free hemoglobin may have major systemic effects on NO bioavailability. A current focus of research attempts to explain and treat the vascular complications common to many chronic hemolytic conditions such as pulmonary hypertension cutaneous ulceration and acute and chronic renal failure. Similarly a number of clinical diseases and therapies such as acute hemolytic crises hemolysis during cardiopulmonary bypass procedures transfusion of aged blood and myoglobinuria following muscle infarction are often complicated by acute pulmonary and systemic hypertension acute renal failure intravascular thrombosis ischemic central nervous system events and or death.

It is demonstrated herein that nitrite produces vasodilation in humans associated with nitrite reduction to NO by deoxyhemoglobin. Remarkably systemic levels of 16 M resulted in systemic vasodilation and decreased blood pressure and regional forearm levels of only 1 2 M significantly increased blood flow at rest and with exercise stress. Furthermore conversion of nitrite to NO and S nitrosothiol was mediated by reaction with deoxyhemoglobin providing a mechanism for hypoxia regulated catalytic NO production by the erythrocyte or endothelial tissue heme proteins. While high concentrations of hemoglobin in red cells coupled with the near diffusion limited reaction rates 10Ms of NO with hemoglobin seem to prohibit NO from being exported from the red blood cell the data presented herein argue to the contrary. While not intending to be limiting perhaps unique characteristics of the erythrocyte membrane with a submembrane protein and methemoglobin rich microenvironment and the relative lipophilic nature of NO allow compartmentalized NO production at the red blood cell membrane. This coupled with the small yields of NO necessary for vasodilation could account for the export of NO despite these kinetic constraints. It is further proposed that in vivo chemistry for the conversion of nitrite to NO and S nitrosothiol by reaction with deoxyhemoglobin and methemoglobin provides a mechanism for hypoxia regulated catalytic NO production by the erythrocyte or endothelial tissue heme proteins.

Three factors uniquely position nitrite rather than S nitrosothiol as the major vascular storage pool of NO 1 Nitrite is present in substantial concentrations in plasma erythrocytes and in tissues Rodriguez et al. 100 336 341 2003 . 2 Nitrite is relatively stable because it is not readily reduced by intracellular reductants as are S nitrosothiols Gladwin et al. 21 21 2002 and its reaction rate with heme proteins is 10 000 times less than that of authentic NO. 3 Nitrite is only converted to NO by reaction with deoxyhemoglobin or presumably deoxy myoglobin cytoglobin and neuroglobin and its leaving group is the met ferric heme protein which will not scavenge and inactivate NO Doyle et al. 256 12393 12398 1981 . Therefore this pool provides the ideal substrate for NO generation during hypoxia providing a novel mechanism for hypoxic vasodilation.

Because a deoxyhemoglobin nitrite reductase system would result in NO formation in deoxygenating blood such a system links hemoglobin oxygenation status to NO generation the principle previously ascribed to S nitroso hemoglobin Jia et al. 380 221 226 1996 . Hemoglobin possesses anionic binding cavities that retain nitrite Gladwin et al. 21 21 2002 and nitrite is taken up by erythrocytes through the anion exchange protein AE1 or Band 3 or through the membrane as nitrous acid a pH dependent process that accelerates nitrite uptake during tissue hypoxia Shingles et al. 29 611 616 1997 May et al. 279 C1946 1954 2000 . Such nitrite would provide a steady source of NO NOand S nitrosothiol generation that would occur preferentially in hypoxic vascular territories. Because the AE1 protein binds both deoxyhemoglobin and methemoglobin and may channel nitrite AE1 could serve to localize catalytic NO and S nitrosothiol generation at the erythrocyte membrane where the relatively lipophilic NO NOand NOcould react in the vicinal lipid bilayer . The erythrocyte membrane is lined by an unstirred outer diffusion barrier and an inner methemoglobin rich protein matrix that might further promote such NO and NOchemistry Coin et al. 254 1178 1190 1979 Liu et al. 273 18709 18713 1998 Han et al. 99 7763 7768 2002 .

This model is consistent with the in vitro observations of Pawloski and colleagues Pawloski et al. 409 622 626 2001 showing that S nitrosation of hemoglobin and AE1 occurs in the erythrocyte membrane after treatment of deoxygenated red blood cells with NO solutions which contain significant more than 50 M contaminating nitrite Fernandez et al. Inorg Chem 42 2 4 2003 . Further NOgenerated at the membrane could directly nitrosate the abundant intra erythrocytic glutathione eliminating the requirement of transnitrosation reactions with S nitroso hemoglobin and thus facilitating rapid export of low molecular weight S nitrosothiol by simple diffusion across the erythrocyte membrane . A nitrite hemoglobin chemistry supports a role for the red cell in oxygen dependent NO homeostasis and provides a mechanism for the observations of multiple research groups that red blood cells and plasma loaded with NO by exposure to NO in high concentration in solution or to NO gas or donors in equilibria with high concentrations of nitrite can export NO and induce vasodilation in vitro and in vivo Rassaf et al. 109 1241 1248 2002 Fox Robichaud et al. 101 2497 2505 1998 McMahon et al. 3 3 2002 Cannon et al. 108 279 287 2001 Gladwin et al. 21 21 2002 Gladwin et al. 107 271 278 2003 Schechter et al. 348 1483 1485 2003 .

In addition to the reaction of nitrite with deoxyhemoglobin reactions with deoxy myoglobin cytoglobin and neuroglobin or with other endothelial cell heme proteins may also be important. Such chemistry would occur between tissue nitrite and deoxy myoglobin in vascular and skeletal muscle thus contributing to hypoxic vasodilation and hypoxic potentiation of NO donors. The Pof these globin monomers is approximately 3 5 mm Hg placing their equilibrium deoxygenation point in the range of tissue pO 0 10 mm Hg during metabolic stress such as exercise. Such a low oxygen tension reduces oxygen availability as substrate for NO synthesis however the tissue nitrite stores could then be reduced to NO and 5 nitrosothiol thus sustaining critical vasodilation.

Therapeutic application of nitrite now can be used to provide selective vasodilation in a subject and particularly to hypoxemic and ischemic tissue in the subject and will be useful to treat hemolytic conditions such as sickle cell disease where free hemoglobin released during hemolysis scavenges NO and disrupts NO dependent vascular function. Nitrite is expected to not only inhibit the ability of free hemoglobin to scavenge NO by oxidizing it to methemoglobin but also to generate NO in tissue beds with low oxygen tension. Thus the applied nitrite will preferentially release nitric oxide at areas of low oxygen tension thereby providing localized vasodilation and or increased blood flow.

Nitrites can be administered to a subject to increase blood flow to a tissue of the subject for example to increase blood flow to a tissue for instance a tissue with low oxygen tension to cause vasodilation to decrease a subject s blood pressure to treat a subject having a condition associated with elevated blood pressure to treat a hemolytic condition to treat vascular complications associated with treatments or conditions that cause hemolysis to treat pulmonary hypertension cerebral vasospasm or low blood flow to organs such as ischemia reperfusion injury to organs including brain heart kidney placenta and liver and or to treat organs before and after transplantation.

The vasodilator properties of nitrite and the mechanisms for its bioactivation were investigated as described herein. Sodium nitrite infused at 36 moles per minute into the forearm brachial artery of 18 normal volunteers resulted in a regional nitrite concentration of 222 M and surprisingly a 175 increase in resting forearm blood flow. Increased blood flow was observed at rest during NO synthase inhibition and with exercise. The nitrite infusion also surprisingly resulted in increased tissue perfusion as demonstrated by increases in venous hemoglobin oxygen saturation partial pressure of oxygen and pH. Increased systemic concentrations of nitrite 16 M significantly reduced mean arterial blood pressure.

In an additional ten subjects the dose of nitrite was reduced 2 logs resulting in a forearm nitrite concentration of 2 M at rest and 0.9 M during exercise . These concentrations of nitrite surprisingly significantly increased blood flow at rest and during NO synthase inhibition with and without exercise.

Nitrite infusions were associated with the rapid formation of erythrocyte iron nitrosyl hemoglobin and to a lesser extent S nitroso hemoglobin across the forearm vasculature. Formation of these NO Hb adducts was inversely proportional to the oxyhemoglobin saturation. Additionally vasodilation of rat aortic rings and the formation of both NO gas and NO modified hemoglobin from the nitrite reductase activity of deoxyhemoglobin and deoxygenated erythrocytes was observed a result that links tissue hypoxia hemoglobin allostery and nitrite bioactivation. These results indicate that physiological levels of blood and tissue nitrite are a major bioavailable pool of NO that contributes to vaso regulation and provide a mechanism for hypoxic vasodilation via reaction of vascular nitrite with deoxygenated heme proteins in tissue and or the erythrocyte.

The findings described herein that administration of nitrite reduces blood pressure and increases blood flow are unexpected and surprising because published reports to date teach the person of ordinary skill in the art that pharmacological levels of nitrites below about 100 200 M when administered to subjects lack intrinsic vasodilatory properties Lauer et al. 98 12814 9 2001 .

It is also believed that pharmaceutically acceptable salts of nitrite can be infused into patients with hemolytic disease such as sickle cell disease to improve blood flow limit ischemia reperfusion tissue injury and oxidize cell free plasma Hb. These effects should be useful in the treatment of sickle cell vaso occlusive pain crisis stroke brain ischemia and the acute chest syndrome.

The anion nitrite NO forms as a consequence of nitric oxide NO oxidation and is present at concentrations of 0.3 1.0 M in plasma and 1 20 M in tissue Gladwin et al. 97 11482 11487 2000 Rodriguez et al. 100 336 341 2003 Rassaf et al. 9 481 483 2003 Bryan et al. 2004 Gladwin et al. 113 19 21 2004 . Nitrite has been historically considered an inert metabolic end product with limited intrinsic biological activity Lauer et al. 98 12814 12819 2001 McMahon 349 402 405 author reply 402 405 2003 Pawloski 349 402 405 author reply 402 405 2003 . Recent data from our group and others suggest that nitrite may be reduced to NO during hypoxia and acidosis Gladwin et al. 97 11482 11487 2000 Bryan et al. 2004 Cosby et al. 9 1498 1505 2003 Nagababu et al. 278 46349 46356 2003 Tiravanti et al. 279 11065 11073 2004 . At extremely low tissue pH and PO nitrite may be reduced to NO by disproportionation acidic reduction Zweier et al. 1 804 809 1995 or by the enzymatic action of xanthine oxidoreductase Millar et al. 427 225 228 1998 Zhang et al. 25 524S 1997 Godber et al. 275 7757 7763 2000 Li et al. 276 24482 24489 2001 .

Nitrite represents a circulating and tissue storage form of nitric oxide NO whose bioactivation is mediated by the nitrite reductase activities of deoxyhemoglobin. Because the rate of NO generation from nitrite is linearly dependent on reductions in oxygen and pH we hypothesized that nitrite would be reduced to NO in ischemic tissue and exert NO dependent protective effects. Solutions of sodium nitrite were administered in the setting of hepatic and cardiac ischemia reperfusion I R injury in mice. In hepatic I R nitrite exerted profound dose dependent protective effects on cellular necrosis and apoptosis with highly significant protective effects observed at near physiological nitrite concentrations 0.6 M . In myocardial I R injury nitrite reduced cardiac infarct size by 67 and significantly improved post ischemic left ventricular ejection fraction. Consistent with hypoxia dependent nitrite bioactivation nitrite was reduced to NO S nitrosothiols N nitrosamines and iron nitrosylated heme proteins within 1 30 minutes of reperfusion. Nitrite mediated protection was dependent on NO generation and independent of eNOS and HO 1. These results suggest that nitrite is a biological storage reserve of NO subserving a critical function in tissue protection from ischemic injury. These studies evince an unexpected and novel therapy for diseases such as myocardial infarction organ preservation and transplantation and shock states.

Although reperfusion of ischemic tissues provides oxygen and metabolic substrates necessary for the recovery and survival of reversibly injured cells reperfusion itself actually results in the acceleration of cellular necrosis Braunwald et al. 76 1713 1719 1985 . Ischemia reperfusion is characterized by the formation of oxygen radicals upon reintroduction of molecular oxygen to ischemic tissues resulting in widespread lipid and protein oxidative modifications of cellular proteins mitochondrial injury and tissue apoptosis and necrosis McCord et al. 5 183 189 1985 . In addition following reperfusion of ischemic tissues blood flow may not return uniformly to all portions of the ischemic tissues a phenomenon that has been termed the no reflow phenomenon Kloner et al. 54 1496 1508 1974 . Reductions in blood flow following reperfusion are thought to contribute to cellular injury and necrosis Kloner et al. 54 1496 1508 1974 . The sudden re introduction of blood into ischemic tissue also results in a dramatic increase in calcium delivery to the previously ischemic tissue i.e. calcium paradox resulting in massive tissue disruption enzyme release reductions in high energy phosphate stores mitochondrial injury and necrosis Nagler 102 262 1981 Shen et al. 67 417 440 1972 . Recent studies have also indicated that the ischemia reperfusion injury is also characterized by an inappropriate inflammatory response in the microcirculation resulting in leukocyte endothelial cell interactions that are mediated by the upregulation of both leukocyte and endothelial cell adhesion molecules Lefer et al. 32 743 751 1996 Entman et al. 5 2529 2537 1991 . Intensive research efforts have been focused on ameliorating various pathophysiological components of ischemia reperfusion injury to limit the extent of tissue injury and necrosis.

NO NO donors and NO synthase activation or transgenic over expression have been shown to exert protective effects on this process in a number of models Lefer et al. New Horiz 3 105 112 1995 Lefer et al. 88 2337 2350 1993 Nakanishi et al. 263 H1650 1658 1992 Jones et al. 286 H276 282 2004 Jones et al. 100 4891 4896. 2003 Kanno et al. 101 2742 2748 2000 but in other models appears harmful Flogel et al. 31 827 836. 1999 Menezes et al. 277 G144 151 1999 Woolfson et al. 91 1545 1551 1995 Schulz R. et al. 30 432 439 1995 . Evaluation of these studies suggests a critical effect of dose and duration of NO exposure resulting in a narrow therapeutic safety window for NO in ischemia reperfusion pathophysiology Bolli 33 1897 1918 2001 Wink et al. 285 H2264 2276 2003 . An additional limitation is that NO formation from NO synthase requires oxygen as substrate a molecule whose availability becomes limited during ischemia.

We therefore considered the use of nitrite in this context for the following reasons 1 It is a naturally occurring substance with no potentially toxic leaving group 2 it is selectively reduced to NO in tissues with low oxygen tension and low pH Bryan et al. 2004 Cosby et al. 9 1498 1505 2003 Nagababu et al. 278 46349 46356 2003 Tiravanti et al. 279 11065 11073 2004 Doyle et al. 256 12393 12398 1981 Luchsinger et al. 100 461 466 2003 3 its activation does not require molecular oxygen Cosby et al. 9 1498 1505 2003 and 4 NO is known to maintain heme proteins in a reduced and liganded state Herold et al. 34 531 545 2003 Herold et al. 6 543 555 2001 Fernandez et al. 42 2 4 2003 limit free iron and heme mediated oxidative chemistry Kanner et al. 237 314 321 1985 Kanner et al. 20 625 628 1985 Kanner et al. 27 46 49 1992 transiently inhibit cytochome c oxidase and mitochondrial respiration Torres et al. 475 263 266 2000 Brown et al. 356 295 298 1994 Cleeter et al. 345 50 54 1994 Rakhit et al. 103 2617 2623 2001 and modulate apoptotic effectors Mannick et al. 284 651 654 1999 all mechanisms that might participate in cytotoxicity following severe ischemia.

Nitric oxide has been shown to quench oxygen free radicals in a transient ischemia and reperfusion injury animal models Mason et al. 93 99 107 2000 significantly limiting volume of stroke Pluta et al. 48 884 892 2001 . Therefore nitrite via releasing NO in the area of reperfusion may also have the same beneficial effect on stroke via limiting oxygen free radicals presence after reperfusion.

Furthermore the selective opening of blood tumor barrier by NO facilitates penetration of chemotherapeutic agents into the brain tumor Weyerbrock et al. 99 728 737 2003 it is believed that this will also enhance penetration of other agents particularly therapeutic agents such as radiation therapy brain cancer. Therefore due to hypoxic conditions within the brain tumor it is possible that nitrite can also selectively open the blood tumor barrier providing beneficial effect in combination with chemotherapy.

Persistent pulmonary hypertension of the newborn occurs with an incidence of 0.43 6.8 1 000 live births and is associated with mortality rates between 10 20 Walsh Sukys et al. 105 14 20 2000 . Survivors may develop neurodevelopmental and audiological impairment 46 cognitive delays 30 hearing loss 19 and a high rate of rehospitalization 22 Lipkin et al. 140 306 10 2002 .

Pulmonary hypertension occurs as a primary or idiopathic disease Runo Loyd 361 1533 44 2003 Trembath Harrison 53 883 8 2003 as well as secondary to a number of systemic and pulmonary diseases Rubin 336 111 7 1997 . Regardless of etiology pulmonary hypertension is associated with substantial morbidity and mortality. Newborn infants and adults with pulmonary disease often develop systemic hypoxemia reduced oxyhemoglobin saturation and increased pulmonary vascular resistance Rubin 336 111 7 1997 Haworth 88 658 64 2002 . Therapeutically administered inhaled nitric oxide NO decreases pulmonary vascular resistance in newborns and adults and improves ventilation to perfusion matching and oxygenation in newborns inhaled NO reduces chronic lung damage and reduces the need for extracorporeal membrane oxygenation. Randomized placebo controlled trials of inhaled NO therapy for term and near term newborns with severe hypoxic respiratory failure demonstrated an improvement in hypoxemia and reduced need for extracorporal membrane oxygenation Clark et al. 342 469 74 2000 Roberts et al. 336 605 10 1997 The Neonatal Inhaled Nitric Oxide Study Group. 336 597 604 1997 . A recent randomized placebo controlled trial in premature infants with respiratory distress syndrome indicated that treatment with inhaled NO reduced the combined endpoint of death and chronic lung disease Schreiber et al. 349 2099 107 2003 .

Despite the encouraging results regarding treatment of persistent pulmonary hypertension of the newborn with inhaled NO the therapy does have several significant limitations Martin 349 2157 9 2003 considerable cost Jacobs et al. 30 2330 4 2002 Pierce et al. . 325 336 2002 Subhedar et al. 359 1781 2 2002 Angus et al. 112 1351 60 2003 technical difficulties involved in adapting NO delivery systems for neonatal transport Kinsella et al. 109 158 61 2002 and the lack of availability in small community hospitals and developing countries. In addition NO reacts with oxygen forming the toxic nitrogen dioxide and thus must be stored and delivered in nitrogen at high flow rates. The gas and delivery systems are costly and the requisite delivery technology is not universally available. Therefore alternative NO based therapies for the treatment of pulmonary hypertension are highly desirable.

The relationship between nitrite and nitric oxide has been appreciated for close to a century with Haldane and later Hoagland recognizing that iron nitrosylated myoglobin NO bound to heme formed as an end product during nitrite based meat curing Gladwin 113 19 21 2004 . More than fifty years ago Furchgott and Bhadrakom reported that nitrite vasodilated aortic ring preparations in vitro Furchgott Bhadrakom 108 129 43 1953 this observation was later explored by Ignarro s group in experiments evaluating the role of soluble guanylyl cyclase in endothelium dependent vasodilation Ignarro et al. 218 739 49 1981 . However the high concentrations of nitrite typically in the millimolar range required to elicit vasodilation in aortic ring in vitro bioassays precluded consideration of nitrite as a physiological vasodilator Lauer et al. 98 12814 9 2001 Pawloski 349 402 5 author reply 402 5 2003 McMahon 349 402 5 author reply 402 5 2003 .

Two decades later in human physiological studies we observed artery to vein differences for nitrite across the human forearm with increased extraction occurring during NO inhalation and exercise stress with concomitant NO synthase inhibition Gladwin et al. 97 11482 7 2000 . This finding suggested that nitrite was being metabolized across the forearm with increased consumption during exercise. Based on these observations along with data from a number of investigators that identified mechanisms for non enzymatic nitrite disproportionation Zweier et al. 1 804 9 1995 and enzymatic xanthine oxidoreductase Zweier et al. 1 804 9 1995 Millar et al. 427 225 8 1998 Tiravanti et al. 279 11065 11073 2004 Li et al. 279 17 16939 16946 2004 reduction of nitrite to NO we hypothesized that nitrite is reduced in vivo to NO in tissues under conditions of low Poor pH. We found support for this hypothesis in studies of normal human volunteers wherein nitrite infusion into the forearm resulted in marked vasodilation even under basal conditions at near physiological nitrite concentrations Example 1 Cosby et al. 9 1498 505 2003 . The mechanism of this vasodilation was consistent with a reaction of nitrite with deoxygenated hemoglobin to form NO methemoglobin Cosby et al. 9 1498 505 2003 Nagababu et al. 278 46349 56 2003 and other NO adducts.

This nitrite reductase activity of deoxyhemoglobin was extensively characterized by Doyle and colleagues in 1981 Doyle et al. 256 12393 8 1981 nitrite appears to react with deoxyhemoglobin and a proton to form NO and methemoglobin. Such chemistry is ideally suited for hypoxic generation of NO from nitrite as the reaction is enhanced by hemoglobin deoxygenation and acid providing a graded production of NO from nitrite linked to physiological changes in oxygen and pH CO. The observation in this current example that inhaled nitrite generates iron nitrosyl hemoglobin exhaled NO gas and produces vasodilation in proportion to decreasing levels of oxygenation and pH further indicates that nitrite is a bioavailable storage pool of NO and that hemoglobin may have a physiological function as a nitrite reductase potentially contributing to hypoxic vasodilation see Example 1 . In addition to these mechanistic considerations this example supports another therapeutic application of nitrite extending beyond its well established role in the treatment of cyanide poisoning.

We show herein Example 3 that this biochemical reaction can be harnessed for the treatment of neonatal pulmonary hypertension an NO deficient state characterized by pulmonary vasoconstriction right to left shunt pathophysiology ventilation perfusion inhomogeneity and systemic hypoxemia. We delivered inhaled sodium nitrite by aerosol to newborn lambs with hypoxic and normoxic pulmonary hypertension. Inhaled nitrite elicited a rapid and sustained reduction 60 in hypoxia induced pulmonary hypertension a magnitude approaching that of the effects of 20 ppm NO gas inhalation and which was associated with the immediate appearance of increasing levels of NO in expiratory gas. Pulmonary vasodilation elicited by aerosolized nitrite was deoxyhemoglobin and pH dependent and was associated with increased blood levels of hemoglobin iron nitrosylation. Significantly from a therapeutic standpoint short term delivery of nitrite dissolved in saline via nebulization produced selective and sustained pulmonary vasodilation with no appreciable increase in blood methemoglobin levels. These data support the paradigm that nitrite is a vasodilator acting via conversion to NO a process coupled to hemoglobin deoxygenation and protonation and further evince a novel simple and inexpensive potential therapy for neonatal pulmonary hypertension.

Aerosolized nitrite is an effective vasodilatory in the described newborn lamb model Example 3 . It can be readily administered by nebulization and appears to exhibit a wide therapeutic to safety margin with limited systemic hemodynamic changes and methemoglobin production. This presents an attractive therapeutic option to inhaled NO. Nitrite is an ideal NO producing agent in that it 1 is a naturally occurring compound in blood alveolar lining fluid and tissue and 2 has no parent compound leaving group such as the diazenium diolates that requires extensive toxicological study prior to translation to human disease.

Inhaled nitrite is a potent and selective vasodilator of pulmonary circulation of the newborn lamb. This further supports the paradigm that nitrite is an NO dependent vasodilator whose bioactivation is coupled to hemoglobin deoxygenation and protonation. This has clinical applications in veterinary and medical situations including pulmonary hypertension and other pulmonary syndromes with apparent NO deficiencies. Based on the data presented herein it is believed that inhaled nitrite will have efficacy in all known and tested applications of inhaled NO.

Further it has been discovered that nitrite infusion can be used to prevent cerebral artery vasospasm after aneurismal hemorrhage Example 4 . Subarachnoid hemorrhage SAH due to the rupture of intracranial aneurysms affects 28 000 Americans annually. Almost 70 of patients with aneurysmal SAH develop severe spasm of the cerebral arteries on the seventh day after SAH. Despite aggressive medical therapy neurological deficits resulting from vasospasm continue to be a major cause of morbidity and mortality. Although the etiology of cerebral vasospasm is poorly understood there is increasing evidence that erythrocyte hemolysis in the cerebrospinal fluid and decreased availability of nitric oxide NO a potent vasodilator plays a significant role. Reversal of vasospasm by NO or NO prodrugs has been documented in several animal models.

Delayed cerebral vasospasm DCV remains the single cause of permanent neurological deficits or death in at least fifteen percent of patients following otherwise successful endovascular or surgical treatment for ruptured intracranial aneurysm. Decreased bioavailability of nitric oxide NO has been mechanistically associated with the development of DCV. A primate model system for cerebral artery vasospasm was used to determine whether infusions of nitrite a naturally occurring anion that reacts with deoxyhemoglobin to form NO and S nitrosothiol might prevent DCV via reactions with perivascular hemoglobin.

As described in Example 4 nitrite infusions 45 mg kg and 60 mg kg per day that produced blood levels of nitrite ranging from 10 60 microM with no clinically significant methemoglobin formation 

Subacute sodium nitrite infusions prevent DCV in a primate model of SAH and do so without toxicity. These data evince a novel safe inexpensive and rationally designed therapy for DCV a disease for which no current preventative therapy exists.

The results presented herein suggest that sodium nitrite therapy may prevent tissue injury produced by metabolic products of hemoglobin either by vascular spasm or by other mechanisms of tissue injury by these metabolic products.

Based on results presented herein it is believed that nitrite particularly pharmaceutically acceptable salts of nitrite as described herein can be used to treat hypertension and preeclampsia during pregnancy. Such therapy would include action of nitrites on spastic and diseased blood vessels within the placenta.

Also suggested are methods for treating fetuses in utero particularly those afflicted with cardiovascular anomalies hypertension and misdirected blood flow. It is believed that it may be possible to add nitrites to the amniotic fluid and thus indirectly to the fetus to achieve vasodilation and redistribution of blood flow before birth. By this means fetal cardiovascular system development and function could be altered for instance with promotion of blood flow to the brain and heart. To be effective longer term it is envisioned that embodiments of such fetal therapy would include the introduction of one or more mini osmotic pumps containing nitrite e.g. sodium nitrite into the amniotic cavity to thereby achieve sustained slow release. For instance such minipumps could be used to achieve sustained release throughout days and weeks of pregnancy.

Also suggested are methods for treating fetuses in whom plasma nitrite levels may be depressed by immune incompatibility and associated hemolytic anemias. Such fetal treatment may be extended into the neonatal period. Administrated in the fetal period may include implantation of nitrite charged osmotic minipumps into the amniotic cavity and could include aerosol inhalation after birth.

Nitrites including their salts are administered to a subject in accordance to methods provided herein in order to decrease blood pressure and or increase vasodilation in a subject. Administration of the nitrites in accordance with the present disclosure may be in a single dose in multiple doses and or in a continuous or intermittent manner depending for example upon the recipient s physiological condition whether the purpose of the administration is therapeutic or prophylactic and other factors known to skilled practitioners. The administration of the nitrites may be essentially continuous over a preselected period of time or may be in a series of spaced doses. The amount administered will vary depending on various factors including but not limited to the condition to be treated and the weight physical condition health and age of the subject. Such factors can be determined by a clinician employing animal models or other test systems that are available in the art.

To prepare the nitrites nitrites are synthesized or otherwise obtained and purified as necessary or desired. In some embodiments of the disclosure the nitrite is a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of nitrite for example sodium nitrite. In some embodiments of the disclosure the nitrite is not ethyl nitrite. In some embodiments of the disclosure the sodium nitrite is not on a medical devise for example not on a stent. In some embodiments of the disclosure the nitrite is not in the form of a gel. The nitrites can be adjusted to the appropriate concentration and optionally combined with other agents. The absolute weight of a given nitrite included in a unit dose can vary. In some embodiments of the disclosure the nitrite is administered as a salt of an anionic nitrite with a cation for example sodium potassium or arginine.

One or more suitable unit dosage forms including the nitrite can be administered by a variety of routes including topical oral for instance in an enterically coated formulation parenteral including subcutaneous intravenous intramuscular and intraperitoneal rectal intraamnitic dermal transdermal intrathoracic intrapulmonary and intranasal respiratory routes.

The formulations may where appropriate be conveniently presented in discrete unit dosage forms and may be prepared by any of the methods known to the pharmaceutical arts. Such methods include the step of mixing the nitrite with liquid carriers solid matrices semi solid carriers finely divided solid carriers or combinations thereof and then if necessary introducing or shaping the product into the desired delivery system. By pharmaceutically acceptable it is meant a carrier diluent excipient and or salt that is compatible with the other ingredients of the formulation and not deleterious or unsuitably harmful to the recipient thereof. The therapeutic compounds may also be formulated for sustained release for example using microencapsulation see WO 94 07529 and U.S. Pat. No. 4 962 091 .

The nitrites may be formulated for parenteral administration e.g. by injection for example bolus injection or continuous infusion and may be presented in unit dose form in ampoules pre filled syringes small volume infusion containers or in multi dose containers. Preservatives can be added to help maintain the shelve life of the dosage form. The nitrites and other ingredients may form suspensions solutions or emulsions in oily or aqueous vehicles and may contain formulatory agents such as suspending stabilizing and or dispersing agents. Alternatively the nitrites and other ingredients may be in powder form obtained by aseptic isolation of sterile solid or by lyophilization from solution for constitution with a suitable vehicle e.g. sterile pyrogen free water before use.

These formulations can contain pharmaceutically acceptable carriers and vehicles that are available in the art. It is possible for example to prepare solutions using one or more organic solvent s that is are acceptable from the physiological standpoint chosen in addition to water from solvents such as acetone ethanol isopropyl alcohol glycol ethers such as the products sold under the name Dowanol polyglycols and polyethylene glycols C Calkyl esters of short chain acids ethyl or isopropyl lactate fatty acid triglycerides such as the products marketed under the name Miglyol isopropyl myristate animal mineral and vegetable oils and polysiloxanes.

It is possible to add other ingredients such as antioxidants surfactants preservatives film forming keratolytic or comedolytic agents perfumes flavorings and colorings. Antioxidants such as t butylhydroquinone butylated hydroxyanisole butylated hydroxytoluene and tocopherol and its derivatives can be added.

The pharmaceutical formulations of the present disclosure may include as optional ingredients pharmaceutically acceptable carriers diluents solubilizing or emulsifying agents and salts of the type that are available in the art. Examples of such substances include normal saline solutions such as physiologically buffered saline solutions and water. Specific non limiting examples of the carriers and or diluents that are useful in the pharmaceutical formulations of the present disclosure include water and physiologically acceptable buffered saline solutions such as phosphate buffered saline solutions. Merely by way of example the buffered solution can be at a pH of about 6.0 8.5 for instance about 6.5 8.5 about 7 8.

The nitrites can also be administered via the respiratory tract. Thus the present disclosure also provides aerosol pharmaceutical formulations and dosage forms for use in the methods of the disclosure. In general such dosage forms include an amount of nitrite effective to treat or prevent the clinical symptoms of a specific condition. Any attenuation for example a statistically significant attenuation of one or more symptoms of a condition that has been treated pursuant to the methods of the present disclosure is considered to be a treatment of such condition and is within the scope of the disclosure.

For administration by inhalation the composition may take the form of a dry powder for example a powder mix of the nitrite and a suitable powder base such as lactose or starch. The powder composition may be presented in unit dosage form in for example capsules or cartridges or e.g. gelatin or blister packs from which the powder may be administered with the aid of an inhalator insufflator or a metered dose inhaler see for example the pressurized metered dose inhaler MDI and the dry powder inhaler disclosed in Newman S. P. in Clarke S. W. and Davia D. eds. pp. 197 224 Butterworths London England 1984 .

Nitrites may also be administered in an aqueous solution for example when administered in an aerosol or inhaled form. Thus other aerosol pharmaceutical formulations may include for example a physiologically acceptable buffered saline solution. Dry aerosol in the form of finely divided solid compound that is not dissolved or suspended in a liquid is also useful in the practice of the present disclosure.

For administration to the respiratory tract for example the upper nasal or lower respiratory tract by inhalation the nitrites can be conveniently delivered from a nebulizer or a pressurized pack or other convenient means of delivering an aerosol spray. Pressurized packs may include a suitable propellant such as dichlorodifluoromethane trichlorofluoromethane dichlorotetrafluoroethane carbon dioxide or other suitable gas. In the case of a pressurized aerosol the dosage unit may be determined by providing a valve to deliver a metered amount. Nebulizers include but are not limited to those described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 624 251 3 703 173 3 561 444 and 4 635 627. Aerosol delivery systems of the type disclosed herein are available from numerous commercial sources including Fisons Corporation Bedford Mass. Schering Corp. Kenilworth N.J. and American Pharmoseal Co. Valencia Calif. . For intra nasal administration the therapeutic agent may also be administered via nose drops a liquid spray such as via a plastic bottle atomizer or metered dose inhaler. Typical of atomizers are the Mistometer Wintrop and the Medihaler Riker . The nitrites may also be delivered via an ultrasonic delivery system. In some embodiments of the disclosure the nitrites may be delivered via an endotracheal tube. In some embodiments of the disclosure the nitrites may be delivered via a face mask.

The present disclosure further pertains to a packaged pharmaceutical composition such as a kit or other container. The kit or container holds a therapeutically effective amount of a pharmaceutical composition of nitrite and instructions for using the pharmaceutical composition for treating a condition.

Furthermore the nitrite may also be used in combination with other therapeutic agents for example pain relievers anti inflammatory agents antihistamines and the like whether for the conditions described or some other condition. By way of example the additional agent is one or more selected from the list consisting of penicillin hydroxyurea butyrate clotrimazole arginine or a phosphodiesterase inhibitor such as sildenafil .

Generally it is believed that therapies that have been suggested or demonstrated to be effective when combined with NO therapy may also be effective when combined with nitrite administration. All combination therapies that have been are being studied with NO therapy inhaled or otherwise are likely to be worthy of study in combination with nitrite therapy. See for instance Uga et al. 46 1 10 14 2004 Gianetti et al. 127 1 44 50 2004 Stubbe et al. 29 10 1790 1797 2003 Wagner et al. 23 326 326 Suppl. 2002 Park et al. 44 2 219 226 2003 Kohele 5 19 23 2003 for discussions of combination therapies used with NO.

Furthermore pharmaceutically acceptable nitrite salts such as for instance sodium nitrite may be used in combinations with drugs and agents that limit the elimination rate of administered nitrites. This combination could serve to prolong the duration of action of nitrite and would include antagonists and inhibitors of enzymes affecting the elimination of nitrites or their conversion to NO.

Alternatively the nitrite may be used in combinations with drugs and agents that augment the action of nitrites. This combination could serve to increase the strength of responses to administered nitrites.

Recombinant tissue plasminogen activator rt PA and urokinase are the only drugs that have proven to open occluded brain arteries in ischemic stroke. It is believed possible that using nitrite via quenching oxygen free radicals produced in response to reperfusion may provide an additional beneficial effect.

The following examples are provided to illustrate certain particular features and or embodiments. These examples should not be construed to limit the invention to the particular features or embodiments described.

This example provides a demonstration that nitrite administered by infusion to the forearm of human subjects is an effective vasodilator.

The protocol was approved by the Institutional Review Board of the National Heart Lung and Blood Institute and informed consent was obtained from all volunteer subjects. Nine men and nine women with an average age of 33 years range 21 50 years participated in the study. An additional 10 subjects returned three six months later for a second series of experiments with low dose nitrite infusion. Volunteers had a normal hemoglobin concentration and all were in excellent general health without risk factors for endothelial dysfunction fasting blood sugar 120 mg dL low density lipoprotein cholesterol 130 mg dL blood pressure 145 95 mmHg smoking within two years cardiovascular disease peripheral vascular disease coagulopathy or any other disease predisposing to vasculitis or Raynaud s phenomenon . Subjects with G6PD deficiency known cytochrome B5 deficiency or a baseline methemoglobin level 1 were excluded no screened subjects met these exclusion criteria . Lactating and pregnant females were excluded one subject with positive HCG levels was excluded . No volunteer subject was allowed to take any medication oral contraceptive agents allowed vitamin supplements herbal preparations nutraceuticals or other alternative therapies for at least one month prior to study and were not be allowed to take aspirin for one week prior to study.

Brachial artery and antecubital vein catheters were placed into the arm with the intra arterial catheter connected to a pressure transducer for blood pressure measurements and an infusion pump delivering normal saline at 1 mL min. After 20 minutes of rest baseline arterial and venous blood samples were obtained and forearm blood flow measurements were made by strain gauge venous occlusion plethysmography as previously reported Panza et al. 87 1468 74 1993 . A series of 7 blood flow measurements were averaged for each blood flow determination. A series of measurements termed Parts I and II were performed in randomized order to minimize a time effect on the forearm blood flow response during nitrite infusion.

Part I Following 20 minutes of 0.9 NaCl saline solution infusion at 1 mL min into the brachial artery arterial and venous blood samples were obtained for the assays described below and forearm blood flow measured. Exercise was performed by repetitive hand grip at one third of the predetermined maximum grip strength using a hand grip dynamometer Technical Products Co. Gladwin et al. 97 9943 8 2000 Gladwin et al. 97 11482 11487 2000 Cannon et al. 108 279 87 2001 . Each contraction lasted for 10 seconds followed by relaxation for 5 seconds. Following 5 minutes of exercise forearm blood flow measurements were obtained during relaxation phases of exercise and arterial and venous samples collected. Following a 20 minute rest period with continued infusion of saline into the brachial artery repeated baseline blood samples and forearm blood flow measurements were obtained. L NMMA was then infused at a rate of 1 mL min 8 mol min into the brachial artery. Following 5 minutes of L NMMA infusion forearm blood flow was measured and arterial and venous blood samples obtained. Forearm exercise was then initiated in that arm during continued L NMMA infusion. Forearm blood flow was measured and blood samples obtained after 5 minutes of exercise during continued L NMMA infusion .

Part II After a 30 minute rest period with continued infusion of saline baseline measurements were obtained the saline infusion was then stopped and infusion of nitrite NaNO36 mol ml in 0.9 saline at 1 ml min was started. Sodium nitrite for use in humans was obtained from Hope Pharmaceuticals 300 mg in 10 ml water and 286 mg was diluted in 100 ml 0.9 saline by the Pharmaceutical Development Service to a final concentration of 36 mol ml. For the final 9 subjects studied 0.01 0.03 mM sodium bicarbonate was added to the normal saline so as to titrate pH to 7.0 7.4. The nitrite solution was light protected and nitrite levels and free NO gas in solution measured by reductive chemiluminescence after all experiments Gladwin et al. 21 21 2002 . Only 50.5 40.5 nM NO was present in nitrite solutions and was unaffected by bicarbonate buffering. There was no correlation between NO levels in nitrite solutions and blood flow effects of nitrite r 0.23 P 0.55 . After 5 minutes of nitrite infusion forearm blood flow measurements and blood samples were obtained with brief interruption of the nitrite infusion to obtain the arterial sample. With continued nitrite infusion exercise was performed as described previously with forearm blood flow measurements and blood samples obtained as described above. The nitrite infusion was stopped and saline infusion re started during the subsequent 30 minute rest period. Following second baseline measurements the nitrite infusion was re initiated along with L NMMA at 8 mol min. Five minutes later forearm blood flow measurements were performed and blood samples obtained followed by 5 minutes of exercise with continuation of nitrite and L NMMA infusions. Final forearm blood flow measurements and blood samples obtained. At all time points during part II blood samples were obtained from the contralateral arm antecubital vein for determination of methemoglobin and systemic levels of NO modified hemoglobin . The total dose of sodium nitrite infused was 36 mol minute 15 minutes 2 infusions 1.08 mmol 75 mg MW NaNO 69 .

In additional studies in 10 subjects the same stages of Parts I and II protocol were followed with infusion of low dose nitrite NaNO0.36 mol ml in 0.9 saline infused at 1 ml min .

Arterial and venous pH pO and pCO were measured at the bedside using the i STAT system i STAT Corporation East Windsor N.J. and methemoglobin concentration and hemoglobin oxygen saturation measured by co oximetry.

S nitroso hemoglobin is unstable in the reductive red blood cell environment and rapidly decays in a temperature and redox dependent fashion independent of oxygen tension Gladwin et al. 21 21 2002 . To stabilize the S nitroso hemoglobin for measurement the red blood cell must be rapidly oxidized with ferricyanide. Before and during nitrite infusions blood was drawn from both the brachial artery and antecubital vein and the whole blood immediately at the bedside to eliminate processing time lysed 1 10 in an NO hemoglobin stabilization solution of PBS containing 1 NP 40 to solubilize membranes 8 mM NEM to bind free thiol and prevent artefactual S nitrosation 0.1 mM DTPA to chelate trace copper and 4 mM ferricyanide and cyanide to stabilize S nitrosohemoglobin and prevent artefactual ex vivo iron nitrosylation during processing . The samples were desalted across a 9.5 mL bed volume Sephadex G25 column to eliminate nitrite and excess reagents and partially purify hemoglobin 99 hemoglobin preparation . The hemoglobin fraction was quantified by the method of Drabkin and hemoglobin fractions reacted with and without mercuric chloride 1 5 HgCl heme ratio used to differentiate S nitrosothiol which is mercury labile versus iron nitrosyl which is mercury stable and then in 0.1 M HCL 0.5 sulfanilamide to eliminate residual nitrite Marley et al. 32 1 9 2000 . The samples were then injected into a solution of tri iodide I in line with a chemiluminescent nitric oxide analyzer Sievers Model 280 NO analyzer Boulder Colo. . The mercury stable peak represents iron nitrosyl hemoglobin. This assay is sensitive and specific for both S nitroso hemoglobin and iron nitrosyl hemoglobin to 5 nM in whole blood 0.00005 S NO per heme Gladwin et al. 21 21 2002 .

Analysis was initially performed using red blood cell pellet however despite placing the sample in ice and immediately separating plasma from erythrocyte pellet NO formed in the venous blood ex vivo. To measure the true in vivo levels whole blood was mixed at the bedside 1 10 in the NO hemoglobin stabilization solution . Plasma S nitroso albumin formation was negligible during nitrite infusion so this bedside whole blood assay was used to limit processing time and thus more accurately characterize the in vivo chemistry. In a series of validation experiments both S nitroso hemoglobin and iron nitrosyl hemoglobin were stable in the NO hemoglobin stabilization solution for 20 minutes at room temperature with no artifactual formation or decay of NO modified species n 6 .

Chemiluminescent Detection of NO Gas Released from Deoxyhemoglobin and Deoxygenated Erythrocytes Following Nitrite Addition.

To determine whether free NO radical can form from the reaction of nitrite and deoxyhemoglobin 100 and 200 M nitrite was mixed with 5 mL of 660 and 1000 M deoxygenated erythrocytes in a light protected reaction vessel purged with helium or oxygen both 21 and 100 in line with a chemiluminescent NO analyzer Seivers Boulder Colo. . After allowing equilibration for 5 minutes nitrite was injected and the rate of NO production measured. Nitrite was injected into PBS as a control and into 100 M hemoglobin to control for the hemolysis in the 660 and 1000 M deoxygenated erythrocyte solutions. At the end of all experiments the visible absorption spectra of the supernatant and erythrocyte reaction mixture was analyzed and hemoglobin composition deconvoluted using a least squares algorithm. There was less than 100 M hemolysis in the system no hemoglobin denaturation and significant formation of iron nitrosyl hemoglobin. The NO production from erythrocyte suspensions exceeded that produced from the hemolysate control consistent with NO export from the erythrocyte.

An a priori sample size calculation determined that 18 subjects would be necessary for the study to detect a 25 improvement in forearm blood flow during nitrite infusion when forearm NO synthesis had been inhibited by L NMMA compared with normal saline infusion control values alpha 0.05 power 0.80 . Two sided P values were calculated by paired t test for the pair wise comparisons between baseline and L NMMA infusion values between baseline and exercise values and between nitrite and saline control values at comparable time points of the study. Repeated measures ANOVA were performed for artery to vein gradients of NO species during basal L NMMA infusion and exercise conditions. Measurements shown are mean SEM.

Eighteen healthy subjects 9 males 9 females age range 21 to 50 years were enrolled in a physiological study to determine if nitrite is a vasodilator and to examine nitrite s in vivo chemistry. Part I of the protocol was designed to measure the normal hemodynamic and metabolic responses to exercise and to inhibition of NO synthesis within the forearm as a control for Part II of the protocol in which these interventions were performed during nitrite infusion. Initial baseline measurements included a mean blood pressure of 85.6 3.7 mm Hg and forearm blood flow of 4.0 0.3 ml min per 100 mL tissue . Repetitive hand grip forearm exercise increased blood flow approximately 600 over resting values and significantly decreased ipsilateral venous hemoglobin oxygen saturation p0 and pH consistent with increased oxygen consumption and COgeneration. Following a 20 minute rest period repeat hemodynamic measurements showed an approximate 10 higher forearm blood flow but no change in systemic blood pressure or forearm venous hemoglobin oxygen saturation p0and pH values compared with the initial baseline values . The NO synthase inhibitor L NMMA was then infused into the brachial artery at 8 mol min for 5 minutes significantly reducing forearm blood flow by approximately 30 and significantly reducing venous hemoglobin oxygen saturation p0and pH values. Repeated forearm exercise during continued L NMMA infusion increased blood flow but to a significantly lower peak value compared with exercise alone P

To determine whether nitrite has vasoactivity in humans in Part II of the protocol sodium nitrite in bicarbonate buffered normal saline final concentration 36 mol ml was infused into the brachial arteries of these 18 subjects to achieve an estimated intravascular concentration of approximately 200 M Lauer et al. 98 12814 9 2001 . Following repeat baseline measurements and infusion of sodium nitrite at 1 mL min for 5 minutes nitrite levels in the ipsilateral antecubital vein increased from 3.32 0.32 to 221.82 57.59 M . Forearm blood flow increased 175 over resting values venous hemoglobin oxygen saturation p0and pH levels significantly increased over pre infusion values consistent with increased perfusion of the forearm.

Systemic levels of nitrite were 16 M as measured in the contralateral arm and were associated with a systemic effect of decreased mean blood pressure of approximately 7 mm Hg. Consistent with immediate NO generation from nitrite during an arterial to venous transit iron nitrosylated hemoglobin in the ipsilateral antecubital vein increased from 55.7 11.4 to 693.4 216.9 nM during the nitrite infusion. During forearm exercise with continuation of the nitrite infusion blood flow increased further with evidence of metabolic stress by virtue of reduction in forearm venous hemoglobin oxygen saturation p0and pH levels from baseline values. Venous nitrite levels declined consistent with increased blood flow to the forearm diluting the concentration of infused nitrite. Despite decreasing forearm nitrite concentrations during exercise iron nitrosyl hemoglobin levels increased .

Following cessation of nitrite infusion and substitution of saline as the intra arterial infusate for 30 minutes repeat baseline measurements showed persistent elevations in systemic levels of nitrite iron nitrosyl hemoglobin and methemoglobin over values obtained prior to the infusion of nitrite almost one hour before. In addition persistence of a vasodilator effect was also apparent as forearm blood flow was significantly higher 4.79 0.37 versus 3.94 0.38 mL min per 100 mL tissue P 0.003 and systemic blood pressure significantly lower 82.1 3.7 versus 89.2 3.5 mm Hg P 0.002 than initial pre nitrite infusion values. During re infusion into the brachial artery of sodium nitrite 36 mol ml combined with L NMMA 8 mol min in order to again inhibit regional synthesis of NO similar vasodilator effects of nitrite on resting and exercise forearm blood flow were seen as during nitrite infusion without L NMMA . This stands in contrast to the vasoconstrictor effect of NO synthase inhibition with L NMMA observed in Part I of the protocol . Venous nitrite and iron nitrosyl hemoglobin levels followed similar patterns during NO inhibition as during the initial nitrite infusion.

As a test of the physiological relevance of vascular nitrite as a vasodilator nitrite concentrations were decreased by 2 logs to 400 nmol mL. An infusion of 1 mL min for five minutes in 10 subjects significantly increased forearm blood flow in all ten subjects from 3.49 0.24 to 4.51 0.33 ml min per 100 mL tissue P 0.0006 . Blood flow significantly increased at rest and during NO synthase inhibition with and without exercise P

The vasodilatory property of nitrite during basal blood flow conditions when tissue pOand pH are not exceedingly low was unexpected. These results indicate that the previously hypothesized mechanisms for nitrite reduction nitrite disproportionation and xanthine oxidoreductase activity both of which require extremely low pOand pH values not typically encountered in normal physiology are complemented in vivo by additional factors that serve to catalyze nitrite reduction. While ascorbic acid and other reductants present in abundance in blood can provide necessary electrons for nitrous acid reduction such that the reaction might occur at physiologically attainable pH levels it is herein reported that deoxyhemoglobin effectively reduces nitrite to NO within one half circulatory time. This mechanism provides a graded production of NO along the physiological oxygen gradient tightly regulated by hemoglobin oxygen desaturation.

Intravascular Formation of NO and S nitrosothiol by Reaction of Nitrite with Intraerythrocytic Deoxyhemoglobin

Before and during nitrite infusions blood was drawn from both the brachial artery and antecubital vein and the whole blood immediately at the bedside to eliminate processing time lysed 1 10 in an NO hemoglobin stabilization solution and the iron nitrosyl hemoglobin and S nitroso hemoglobin content determined by tri iodide based reductive chemiluminescence and electron paramagnetic resonance spectroscopy as described in Methods. The baseline levels of S nitroso hemoglobin and iron nitrosyl hemoglobin were at the limits of detection 

To determine whether free NO radical can form from the reaction of nitrite and deoxyhemoglobin 100 and 200 M nitrite was reacted with deoxygenated erythrocytes 5 mL volume containing a total of 660 and 1000 M in heme in a light protected reaction vessel purged with helium in line with a chemiluminescent NO analyzer Seivers Boulder Colo. . As shown in the injection of nitrite into a solution of deoxygenated erythrocytes resulted in the liberation of NO into the gas phase. There was no release from nitrite in buffer control under the same conditions and significantly less NO was released upon nitrite addition to oxygenated erythrocytes 21 and 100 oxygen . The observed rate determined by the assessment of the area under the curve of increased steady state NO generation following nitrite injection calculated over 120 seconds of NO production in the 5 mL reaction volume was consistent with 47 pM NO production per second corresponding to an estimated 300 to 500 pM NO production per second in whole blood . While NO formation rates in this experimental system may not be extrapolated to rates of NO formation in vivo the experiments are consistent with two important concepts 1 A fraction of free NO can escape auto capture by the remaining heme groups this is likely only possible because nitrite is only converted to NO by reaction with deoxyhemoglobin and its leaving group is the met ferric heme protein which will limit scavenging and inactivation of NO Doyle et al. 256 12393 12398 1981 and 2 The rate of NO production is increased under anaerobic conditions consistent with a nitrite deoxyhemoglobin reaction.

As demonstrated in Example 1 nitrite is reduced to NO by reaction with deoxyhemoglobin along the physiological oxygen gradient a chemistry whose rate is oxygen and pH dependent and that potentially contributes to hypoxic vasodilation. Based on that unexpected discovery we proposed that hypoxia dependent NO production from nitrite in ischemic tissue might limit ischemia reperfusion injury. This example provides a demonstration that infusions of sodium nitrite are effective to provide cytoprotection during ischemia reperfusion of the heart and liver.

Although reperfusion of ischemic tissues provides oxygen and metabolic substrates necessary for the recovery and survival of reversibly injured cells reperfusion itself actually results in the acceleration of cellular necrosis Braunwald et al. 76 1713 1719 1985 . Ischemia reperfusion is characterized by the formation of oxygen radicals upon reintroduction of molecular oxygen to ischemic tissues resulting in widespread lipid and protein oxidative modifications of cellular proteins mitochondrial injury and tissue apoptosis and necrosis McCord et al. 5 183 189 1985 . In addition following reperfusion of ischemic tissues blood flow may not return uniformly to all portions of the ischemic tissues a phenomenon that has been termed the no reflow phenomenon Kloner et al. 54 1496 1508 1974 . Reductions in blood flow following reperfusion are thought to contribute to cellular injury and necrosis Kloner et al. 54 1496 1508 1974 . The sudden re introduction of blood into ischemic tissue also results in a dramatic increase in calcium delivery to the previously ischemic tissue i.e. calcium paradox resulting in massive tissue disruption enzyme release reductions in high energy phosphate stores mitochondrial injury and necrosis Nayler 102 262 1981 Shen et al. 67 417 440 1972 . Recent studies have also indicated that the ischemia reperfusion injury is also characterized by an inappropriate inflammatory response in the microcirculation resulting in leukocyte endothelial cell interactions that are mediated by the upregulation of both leukocyte and endothelial cell adhesion molecules Lefer et al. 32 743 751 1996 Entman et al. 5 2529 2537 1991 . Intensive research efforts have been focused on ameliorating various pathophysiological components of ischemia reperfusion injury to limit the extent of tissue injury and necrosis.

NO NO donors and NO synthase activation or transgenic over expression have been shown to exert protective effects on this process in a number of models Lefer et al. 3 105 112 1995 Lefer et al. 88 2337 2350 1993 Nakanishi et al. 263 H1650 1658 1992 Jones et al. 286 H276 282 2004 Jones et al. 100 4891 4896. 2003 Kanno et al. 101 2742 2748 2000 but in other models appears harmful Flogel et al. 31 827 836. 1999 Menezes et al. 277 G144 151 1999 Woolfson et al. 91 1545 1551 1995 Schulz R. et al. 30 432 439 1995 . Evaluation of these studies suggests a critical effect of dose and duration of NO exposure resulting in a narrow therapeutic safety window for NO in ischemia reperfusion pathophysiology Bolli 33 1897 1918 2001 Wink et al. 285 H2264 2276 2003 . An additional limitation is that NO formation from NO synthase requires oxygen as substrate a molecule whose availability becomes limited during ischemia.

We evaluated the effects of nitrite therapy compared with vehicle and nitrate controls in well characterized murine models of hepatic and myocardial ischemia reperfusion injury. The following description provides strong evidence for a profound protective effect of nitrite on cellular necrosis and apoptosis which is believed to be mediated by a hypoxia dependent bioconversion of nitrite to NO and nitros yl ated proteins.

Chemicals and Reagents Sodium nitrite S 2252 and sodium nitrate S 8170 were obtained from the Sigma Chemical Co. St. Louis Mo. . Sodium nitrite and sodium nitrate were dissolved in phosphate buffered saline and the pH was adjusted to 7.4. In all experiments a final volume of 50 L of sodium nitrite or sodium nitrate were administered to the mice to achieve final concentrations of circulating nitrite of 0.6 to 240 M assuming a total circulating blood volume of 2 mL. Carboxy PTIO 2 4 Carboxyphenyl 4 4 5 5 tetramethylimidazoline 1 oxyl 3 oxide potassium salt a direct intravascular NO scavenger was utilized to inhibit NO dependent effects following hepatic I R injury. Carboxy PTIO Alexis Biochemicals was dissolved in phosphate buffered saline and administered intravenously at a dose of 1 mg Kg in a volume of 50 L at 30 minutes prior to hepatic ischemia. Zinc II Deuteroporphyrin IX 2 4 bisethyleneglycol ZnDBG Alexis Biochemicals a heme oxygenase 1 inhibitor was injected i.p. at a dose of 10 mg Kg in a volume of 50 L at 30 minutes prior to the induction of hepatic ischemia.

Animals All of the mice utilized in the present studies were C57BL6 J at 8 10 weeks of age obtained from the Jackson Laboratories Bar Harbor Me. . In additional experiments of hepatic UR injury we utilized mice completely deficient in endothelial nitric oxide synthase eNOS . eNOS mice were originally generously donated from Dr. Paul Huang Mass. General Hospital and generated in our breeding colony at LSU Health Sciences Center. eNOS mice were utilized at 8 10 weeks of age.

Hepatic Ischemia Reperfusion UR Protocol The hepatic UR protocol is depicted in and has been described previously Hines et al. 284 972 976 2001 Hines et al. 284 G536 545 2001 . Mice were anesthetized with the combination of ketamine 100 mg kg and zylazine 8 mg kg and a midline laparotomy was performed to expose the liver. Mice were then injected with heparin 100 g kg i.p. to prevent blood clotting. The left lateral and median lobes of the liver were rendered ischemic by completely clamping the hepatic artery and the portal vein using microaneurysm clamps. This experimental model results in a segmental 70 hepatic ischemia. This method of partial ischemia prevents mesenteric venous congestion by allowing portal decompression throughout the right and caudate lobes of the liver. The liver was then repositioned in the peritoneal cavity in its original location for 45 minutes. The liver was kept moist using gauze soaked in 0.9 normal saline. In addition body temperature was maintained at 37 C. using a heat lamp and monitoring body temperature with a rectal temperature probe. Sham surgeries were identical except that hepatic blood flow was not reduced with a microaneurysm clamp. The duration of hepatic ischemia was 45 minutes in all experiments following which the microaneurysm clamps were removed. The duration of hepatic reperfusion was 5 hours in the studies of serum liver transaminase levels i.e. AST or ALT and 24 hours for the studies of liver histopathology such as hepatocellular infarction .

Liver Enzyme Determinations Serum samples were analyzed for aspartate aminotransferase AST and alanine aminotransferase ALT using a spectrophotometric method Sigma Chemical Co. St. Louis Mo. Harada et al. 100 739 744 2003 . These enzymes are liver specific and are released from the liver during injury Hines et al. 284 972 976 2001 Hines et al. 284 G536 545 2001 .

Liver Histopathology Studies Histopathology of liver tissue was performed as previously reported Hines et al. 284 972 976 2001 . Liver tissue was fixed in 10 buffered formalin for 24 hours embedded in paraffin and 10 M sections stained with hematoxylin and eosin. Histopathology scoring was performed in a double blinded manner on random high power fields using the following criteria 

Hepatocellular apoptosis was determined using the TUNEL staining kit from Roche according to the manufacturer s recommendations. Briefly liver tissue from various treatments was fixed in buffered formalin and 10 m sections were prepared. Sections were permeabilized on ice for 2 minutes and incubated in 50 L TUNEL solution for 30 minutes at 37 C. Sections were then treated with 50 L substrate solution for 10 min. and mounted under glass coverslips. The number of apoptotic nuclei was determined from 5 random 40 fields per specimen. A total of six specimens per treatment group 16 slides per group were analyzed and compared using one way analysis of variance with Bonferroni s post testing.

Myocardial Ischemia Reperfusion UR Protocol Surgical ligation of the left main coronary artery LCA was performed similar to methods described previously Jones et al. 286 H276 282 2004 . Briefly mice were anesthetized with intraperitoneal injections of ketamine 50 mg kg and pentobarbital sodium 50 mg kg . The animals were then attached to a surgical board with their ventral side up. The mice were orally intubated with PE 90 polyethylene tubing connected to PE 240 tubing and then connected to a Model 683 rodent ventilator Harvard Apparatus Natick Mass. . The tidal volume was set at 2.2 milliliters and the respiratory rate was set at 122 breaths per minute. The mice were supplemented with 100 oxygen via the ventilator side port. A median sternotomy was performed using an electric cautery and the proximal left main coronary artery was visualized and completely ligated with 7 0 silk suture mounted on a tapered needle BV 1 ethicon . In the initial experiments of myocardial infarct size coronary occlusion was maintained for 30 minutes followed by removal of suture and reperfusion for 24 hours. In additional experiments of cardiac function the proximal LCA was completely occluded for 45 minutes followed by suture removal and reperfusion for 48 hours. In these experiments two dimensional echocardiography was performed at baseline and again at 48 hours of reperfusion.

Myocardial Infarct Size Determination At 24 hours of reperfusion the mice were anesthetized as described previously intubated and connected to a rodent ventilator. A catheter PE 10 tubing was placed in the common carotid artery to allow for Evans Blue dye injection. A median sternotomy was performed and the left main coronary artery was re ligated in the same location as before Evans Blue dye 1.2 mL of a 2.0 solution Sigma Chemical Co. was injected into the carotid artery catheter into the heart to delineate the ischemic zone from the nonischemic zone. The heart was rapidly excised and serially sectioned along the long axis in five 1 mm thick sections that were then incubated in 1.0 2 3 5 triphenyltetrazolium chloride Sigma Chemical Co. for 5 minutes at 37 C. to demarcate the viable and nonviable myocardium within the risk zone. Each of the five 1 mm thick myocardial slices were weighed and the areas of infarction risk and nonischemic left ventricle were assessed by a blinded observer using computer assisted planimetry NIH Image 1.57 . All of the procedures for the left ventricular area at risk and infarct size determination have been previously described Jones et al. 286 H276 282 2004 .

Echocardiographic Assessment of Left Ventricular Function Transthoracic echocardiography of the left ventricle using a 15 MHz linear array transducer 15L8 interfaced with a Sequoia C256 Acuson was performed in additional groups of mice n 9 vehicle and n 10 nitrite subjected to 45 minutes of myocardial ischemia and 48 hours of reperfusion. Two dimensional echocardiography was performed at baseline and at 48 hours of reperfusion as described previously Jones et al. 286 H276 282 2004 Jones et al. 100 4891 4896. 2003 . Ventricular parameters were measured using leading edge technique. M mode sweep speed 200 mm sec echocardiograms were captured from parasternal short and long axis 2D views of the left ventricle LV at the mid papillary level. LV percent fractional shortening FS was calculated according to the following equation LV FS LVEDD LVESD LVEDD 100. All data were calculated from 10 cardiac cycles per experiment.

HO 1 Western Blot Analysis of homogenized liver tissue samples 50 g total protein was performed using mouse anti HO 1 mAb Stressgen Victoria BC at a 1 3 000 dilution and goat anti mouse secondary Ab Amersham Biosciences Piscataway N.J. at a 1 3 000 dilution.

Blood and Tissue Nitrite Determination For blood nitrite measurements 160 L of whole blood was mixed with 40 L of a nitrite stabilizing solution containing 80 mM ferricyanide 20 mM N ethylmaleimide NEM 200 L diethylenetriaminepentaacetic acid DTPA and 0.2 NP 40 concentrations provided are after mixing with whole blood . The nitrite in whole blood was then measured using tri idodide based reductive chemiluminescence as previously described and validated Gladwin et al. 21 21 2002 Yang et al. 37 1 10 2003 .

Liver tissue was homogenized using an amended protocol published by Bryan and colleagues Bryan et al. 2004 . Harvested liver tissue was blotted dry on filter paper weighed and homogenized immediately in ice cold NEM 10 mmol L DTPA 2 mmol L containing buffer 3 1 dilution w v . The buffer tissue mix was then homogenized with a Wheaton glass glass homogenizer. Tissue homogenates were kept on ice and analyzed within 5 minutes. The homogenate was subsequently either injected directly into triiodine to measure the sum of nitrite mercury stable Rx NO and mercury labile RS NO NO adducts. To determine the levels of specific NO adducts Rx NO and RS NO the sample was reacted with and without 5 mM mercuric chloride RS NO becomes nitrite in presence of mercuric chloride and Rx NO is stable and both treated with acid sulfanilamide 0.5 to eliminate nitrite.

Statistical Analyses Data were analyzed by two way analysis of variance ANOVA with post hoc Bonferroni analysis using StatView software version 5.0 SAS Institute Carey North Carolina . Data are reported as means standard error of the mean SEM with differences accepted as significant when p

Intraperitoneal nitrite limits hepatic ischemia reperfusion I R injury Intraperitoneal delivery of 1.2 480 nmoles of sodium nitrite 0.6 M to 240 M estimated final concentration in a 2 mL total blood volume of the mouse during hepatic ischemia dose dependently limited serum elevations of liver transaminases aspartate amino transferase AST and alanine amino transferase ALT with a peak effect occurring at a calculated systemic concentration of 24 M 48 nmoles added nitrite . In sharp contrast treatment with saline or sodium nitrate 48 nmoles did not exert any protective effects in the setting of hepatic I R injury. Additional studies were performed to evaluate the effects of nitrite treatment on hepatocellular injury in mice following in vivo hepatic ischemia 45 minutes and more prolonged reperfusion 24 hours . The administration of nitrite at a final blood concentration of 24 M 48 nmoles significantly reduced hepatocellular injury at 24 hours of reperfusion compared with saline and nitrate treated animals. In addition nitrite therapy also significantly p

Intraventricular Nitrite Limits Myocardial Ischemia Reperfusion Injury To determine whether the potent cytoprotective effects of nitrite on liver ischemia reperfusion injury were generalizable to other organ systems studies were next performed to evaluate the potential cardioprotective effects of acute nitrite therapy in the setting of coronary artery occlusion and reperfusion. The experimental protocol for the myocardial I R studies is depicted in . Administration of nitrite 48 nmoles into the left ventricular cavity at 5 minutes prior to reperfusion significantly p

In additional studies mice were subjected to 45 minutes of myocardial ischemia and 48 hours of reperfusion to evaluate the effects of nitrite treatment on left ventricular performance . In these studies both myocardial ejection fraction and myocardial fractional shortening were measured using two dimensional echocardiography at baseline and following myocardial infarction and reperfusion. Myocardial ejection fraction was similar between the vehicle and nitrite treated study groups at baseline. Following myocardial infarction and reperfusion ejection fraction was significantly p

Nitrite Mediated Cytoprotection is Associated with an Acute Ischemic Reduction of Nitrite to NO and S and N nitrosated Proteins within the Liver Consistent with previously described reduction of nitrite to NO and S nitrosothiols in a reaction with deoxyhemoglobin and deoxygenated heme proteins Bryan et al. 2004 Cosby et al. 9 1498 1505 2003 Nagababu et al. 278 46349 46356 2003 Doyle et al. 256 12393 12398 1981 one minute after reperfusion the levels of nitrite in the livers of saline control treated mice subjected to ischemia decreased from 1.75 M to undetectable p

Cytoprotective effects of Nitrite are NO dependent NO synthase Independent and Heme Oxygenase Independent Further supporting a mechanism involving the hypoxic reduction of nitrite to NO the NO inhibitor PTIO completely inhibited protective effects of nitrite in full factorial design experiments . In contrast significant nitrite cytoprotection was observed in endothelial NO synthase eNOS deficient mice p

In this example nitrite treatment significantly increased the levels of liver nitrite and nitros yl ated species RSNO and RXNO compared with saline and nitrate treated controls and conferred a dramatic dose dependent cytoprotective effect limiting necrosis apoptosis and preserving organ function. Remarkably the levels of nitrite added were near physiological with a protective effect observed at even 1.2 nmoles added nitrite a calculated blood level of 600 nM suggesting that this may represent an endogenous protective mechanism that buffers severe metabolic or pathophysiological stress.

Recent data suggest that nitrite concentrations vary between blood and different organs and are typically in the high nanomolar to low micromolar range. However until recently the high concentrations required to vasodilate aortic ring preparations led to its dismissal as an important biologically active molecule. Indeed Furchgott et al. 108 129 143 1953 demonstrated in 1953 that 100 M nitrite stimulated vasodilation of aortic ring preparations a process later shown to be mediated by activation of soluble guanylate cyclase Kimura et al. 250 8016 8022 1975 Mittal et al. 253 1266 1271 1978 Ignarro et al. 631 221 231 1980 Ignarro et al. 218 739 749 1981 . From a physiological standpoint the in vivo conversion of nitrite to NO was thought to be limited to the stomach and severely ischemic heart where acidic reduction or disproportionation at very low pH produces gastric mucosal vasodilation Gladwin et al. 113 19 21 2004 Bjorne et al. 113 106 114 2004 and apparent cardiac tissue injury and heme iron nitrosylation at high nitrite concentrations in ischemic ex vivo heart preparations Tiravanti et al. 279 11065 11073 2004 respectively. While xanthine oxidoreductase dependent nitrite reduction can occur at very low oxygen tensions NO production from this system is only detectable in the presence of high concentrations of superoxide dismutase Li et al. 279 16939 16946 2004 Li et al. 42 1150 1159 2001 .

As described in and Cosby et al. 9 1498 1505 2003 infusions of sodium nitrite into the human circulation produced significant vasodilation at both pharmacological and near physiological concentrations. The bioactivation of nitrite appeared to be mediated by a nitrite reductase activity of deoxygenated hemoglobin ultimately forming NO and iron nitrosylated hemoglobin and to a lesser extent S nitrosated protein species. Based on these data a role for circulating nitrite in mediating hypoxic vasodilation was proposed with the oxygen sensor in this case being hemoglobin Cosby et al. 9 1498 1505 2003 . It is now proposed that a similar nitrite reductase activity of deoxyhemoglobin deoxymyoglobin and or other deoxygenated heme proteins accounts for the formation of nitros yl ated proteins and apparent NO dependent cytoprotection observed during liver and cardiac ischemia in the present example.

Though the precise mechanism of how nitrite confers tissue protection is unclear a critical role for NO is implicated from data shown in . Previous studies of NO and ischemia reperfusion have yielded conflicting reports regarding the effects of NO on the severity of I R injury with some studies suggesting that NO actually contributed to reperfusion injury Woolfson et al. 91 1545 1551 1995 Wink et al. 285 H2264 2276 2003 . Our laboratory has previously demonstrated that NO donors as well as the NO precursor L arginine protect against myocardial I R injury Lefer et al. 3 105 112 1995 Nakanishi et al. 263 H1650 1658 1992 Pabla et al. 269 H1113 1121 1995 . More recently we demonstrated that the severity of myocardial I R injury is markedly exacerbated in eNOS mice Jones et al. 276 H1567 1573 1999 whereas mice with eNOS overexpression are protected against myocardial infarction and subsequent congestive heart failure Jones et al. 286 H276 282 2004 Jones et al. 100 4891 4896. 2003 Jones et al. 276 H1567 1573 1999 .

Conflicting data on the effects of NO on ischemia reperfusion injury may be related to the dose of NO and the conditions during ischemia and reperfusion Bolli 33 1897 1918 2001 . It is now well appreciated that very high non physiological levels of NO i.e. high micromolar and millimolar actually promote cellular necrosis and apoptosis Dimmeler et al. 4 275 281 1997 while the demonstrated cytoprotective effects of NO typically involve nanomolar or low micromolar concentrations of NO Lefer et al. 3 105 112 1995 Lefer et al. 88 2337 2350 1993 Bolli 33 1897 1918 2001 . Additionally studies investigating NO and NO releasing agents under in vitro conditions of I R have consistently reported deleterious effects of NO Bolli 33 1897 1918 2001 in contrast to in vivo studies of I R that reported beneficial effects of NO therapy Lefer et al. 3 105 112 1995 Lefer et al. 88 2337 2350 1993 . How NO mediates protection is also not clear with multiple mechanisms being reported including sGC activation inhibition of cytochrome C oxidase and inhibition of deleterious mitochondrial calcium uptake Tones et al. 475 263 266 2000 Brown et al. 356 295 298 1994 Cleeter et al. 345 50 54 1994 Rakhit et al. 103 2617 2623 2001 . While these data suggest that the effects of nitrite occur secondary to NO formation the ultimate mechanism of nitrite dependent cytoprotection is currently unknown Luchsinger et al. 100 461 466 2003 Fernandez et al. 42 2 4 2003 Han et al. 99 7763 7768 2002 Crawford et al. 101 4408 4415 2003 .

An intriguing possibility is the intermediate formation of S nitrosothiols known to form via reactions of nitrite with deoxyhemoglobin and possibly tissue heme proteins Bryan et al. 2004 Cosby et al. 9 1498 1505 2003 Nagababu et al. 278 46349 46356 2003 . Consistent with hypoxia dependent formation of S nitrosothiols in red blood cells and tissues from nitrite hepatic levels of these species were significantly higher following reperfusion one to thirty minutes in livers exposed to ischemia and nitrite. Within the relative reductive environment intracellularly S nitrosothiols formed via nitrite readily will be reduced to NO and activate sGC. Alternatively S nitrosation and subsequent effects on activity of critical proteins important in I R induced injury and apoptotic cell death may lead to protection Mannick et al. 284 651 654 1999 .

In addition the data reported here reveal a dynamic regulation of hepatic RxNO s a pool of mercury stable NO modified proteins that include N nitrosamines and iron nitrosyls Bryan et al. 2004 Gladwin et al. 21 21 2002 Rassaf et al. 33 1590 1596 2002 during ischemia reperfusion. In saline treated groups RxNO levels increase at 1 minutes of reperfusion and then decrease after 30 minutes reperfusion whereas sustained elevation in RxNO levels are observed in nitrite treated mice suggesting that maintenance of RxNO s could be important in protecting tissues from I R injury.

In conclusion the data presented in this example demonstrate a remarkable function for the relatively simple inorganic anion nitrite as a potent inhibitor of liver and cardiac ischemia reperfusion injury and infarction as shown in a mouse model system. The effects of nitrite appear NO dependent with a rapid conversion of nitrite to NO and nitros yl ated proteins following reperfusion. Considering the known safety of nitrite as a naturally occurring anion and as an FDA approved therapeutic for cyanide poisoning these data evince a novel safe and inexpensive therapy for ischemia reperfusion injury. Such a therapy could be used to prevent or modulate organ dysfunction following for instance coronary and peripheral vasculature reperfusion high risk abdominal surgery such as aortic aneurism repair that leads to renal acute tubular necrosis cardiopulmonary resuscitation and perhaps most importantly solid organ transplantation.

This example provides a description of use of inhaled nebulized nitrite specifically sodium nitrite to treat neonatal pulmonary hypertension.

Based on the results presented above it is now known that the blood anion nitrite contributes to hypoxic vasodilation via a heme based nitric oxide NO generating reaction with deoxyhemoglobin and potentially other heme proteins. This biochemical reaction can be harnessed for the treatment of neonatal pulmonary hypertension an NO deficient state characterized by pulmonary vasoconstriction right to left shunt pathophysiology ventilation perfusion inhomogeneity and systemic hypoxemia. As shown in this example inhaled sodium nitrite was delivered by aerosol to newborn lambs with hypoxic and normoxic pulmonary hypertension. Inhaled nitrite elicited a rapid and sustained reduction 60 in hypoxia induced pulmonary hypertension a magnitude approaching that of the effects of 20 ppm NO gas inhalation and which was associated with the immediate appearance of increasing levels of NO in expiratory gas. Pulmonary vasodilation elicited by aerosolized nitrite was deoxyhemoglobin and pH dependent and was associated with increased blood levels of hemoglobin iron nitrosylation. Significantly from a therapeutic standpoint short term delivery of nitrite dissolved in saline via nebulization produced selective and sustained pulmonary vasodilation with no appreciable increase in blood methemoglobin levels. These data support the paradigm that nitrite is a vasodilator acting via conversion to NO a process coupled to hemoglobin deoxygenation and protonation and further evince a novel simple and inexpensive therapy for neonatal pulmonary hypertension.

The effect of nebulized sodium nitrite versus saline or inhaled NO on both hypoxia induced and drug induced pulmonary hypertension was compared in newborn lambs. As described in this example inhaled nitrite forms expired NO gas and circulating iron nitrosyl hemoglobin and selectively vasodilates the pulmonary circulation. This vasoactivity is associated with the level of hemoglobin desaturation and blood pH in the physiologic range supporting the physiological and therapeutic paradigm of hemoglobin as a deoxygenation linked nitrite reductase.

Animal protocols were approved by the Institutional Animal Research Committee of Loma Linda University and were in accordance with the National Institutes of Health guidelines for use of experimental animals.

Animal preparation Following induction of anesthesia with intravenous thiopental sodium 20 mg Kg the newborn lambs were orotracheally intubated and anesthesia maintained with 1 halothane until catheters were placed surgically. Thereafter halothane was discontinued and anesthesia maintained with morphine 0.1 mg kg hr . After paralysis with vecuronium 0.1 mg kg hr the lungs were mechanically ventilated with initial settings of pressures 22 6 cm HO frequency 25 breaths per minute FiO 0.21 and inspiratory time 0.6 seconds Sechrist Model 100 Sechrist Industries Anaheim Calif. USA . Initially and throughout the normoxic experiments ventilator settings of frequency peak inspiratory pressure and FiOwere adjusted to maintain SaO 95 PaOat 90 150 Torr and PaCOat 35 45 Torr.

A catheter was placed in the right brachial artery to sample pre ductal blood for gases and chemical analysis. A pediatric thermodilution catheter was passed through a femoral vein to the pulmonary artery to measure cardiac output pulmonary artery and pulmonary capillary wedge pressure 5.0 Pediatric Swan Ganz thermodilution catheter Baxter Healthcare Corporation Irvine Calif. USA .

Catheters were placed in the femoral artery and vein for monitoring blood pressure heart rate and for administration of fluids and drugs. A thermocouple was placed in the femoral vein to monitor core body temperature which was maintained at 39 C by using a warming blanket and heat lamp throughout the experiments.

After completion of the experiments the lambs were euthanized with a proprietary euthanasia solution Euthasol Western Medical Supply Arcadia Calif. USA . In selected experiments necropsy was performed to verify the position of catheters which were correctly positioned in all cases and to determine that the ductus arteriosus was closed which was closed in all cases .

Hemodynamic measurements Mean arterial pressure mean pulmonary artery pressure and central venous pressure were measured continuously and pulmonary capillary wedge pressure was measured intermittently by using calibrated pressure transducers COBE Laboratories Lakewood Colo. zeroed at the midthoracic level. Cardiac output was measured at 15 minute intervals throughout the studies by thermodilution using a Com 2 thermodilution module Baxter Medical Irvine Calif. USA . Five ml injections of ice cold saline were used. Determinations were carried out in triplicate and results were averaged for each sampling time point. Pulmonary vascular resistance and systemic vascular resistance were calculated by using standard formulas.

Blood gas and methemoglobin analysis Arterial and mixed venous pH PCO and POwere measured in blood samples 0.3 ml collected at intervals throughout the experiments. Blood gases were measured ABL3 Radiometer Copenhagen Denmark and oxyhemoglobin saturation and hemoglobin concentration were measured using a hemoximeter OSM2 Hemoximeter Radiometer Copenhagen Denmark . Arterial and mixed venous methemoglobin concentrations were analyzed by photometry with the OSM2 Hemoximeter using the same arterial sample as in the blood gas determinations.

Delivery of aerosolized nitrite saline or NO gas Five milliliters of either aqueous sodium nitrite 1 mM solution or saline were placed in a jet nebulizer Hudson RCI Micro Mist Nebulizer Hudson Respiratory Care Temecula Calif. driven at a constant flow rate of 8 L minute in all experiments. The sodium nitrite solution was nebulized at a rate of 270 mol minute. Aerosols were delivered to the inspiration loop of the ventilator. Using a jet nebulizer it is generally thought that 

NO gas was introduced into the inspiratory limb of the breathing circuit. The inspired concentration of NO was continuously measured by chemiluminescence CLD 700 AL Eco Physics Inc Ann Arbor Mich. in the inspiratory limb of the ventilator loop.

Inhalation of nitrite or saline aerosols during hypoxic induced pulmonary vasoconstriction. Seven lambs were studied in order to demonstrate that nebulized nitrite is a selective pulmonary vasodilator in hypoxic newborn lambs. After anesthesia and instrumentation the lambs were allowed to recover for 30 to 90 minutes while relevant hemodynamic parameters were monitored. After baseline measurements were obtained a 30 minute period of pulmonary hypertension was induced by decreasing the FiOof the inspired gas to 0.12 for 30 minutes. Ten minutes after initiation of hypoxia either saline or sodium nitrite aerosols were administered for the remainder of the hypoxic period. After a one hour recovery period a second 30 minute period of hypoxia was induced again with either saline or sodium nitrite aerosols administered during the last 20 minutes. Arterial blood samples for blood gases and analytical assays were drawn and cardiac output measurements were performed at regular intervals.

Inhalation of nitrite during U46619 induced pulmonary hypertension in normoxic conditions. Six additional lambs were studied in order to evaluate the effects of nitrite nebulization on normoxic pulmonary hypertension. Stable normoxic pulmonary hypertension was induced by an infusion of a stable endoperoxide analog of thromboxane U46619 9 11 dideoxy 11 epoxymethano prostaglandin F Cayman Chemicals Ann Arbor Mich. . The drug was dissolved in saline and was administered at a rate of 2 g kg min into the femoral venous catheter for 30 minutes. Nitrite was nebulized for inhalation during the last 20 minutes of the infusion .

Comparison of inhaled nitrite and NO gas during hypoxic induced pulmonary vasoconstriction efficacy and duration of effect. This protocol was designed to compare the efficacy of nitrite with the clinical standard 20 ppm inhaled NO gas. This concentration of NO gas is at the upper end of the therapeutic dose given to infants with primary pulmonary hypertension Kinsella Abman 24 387 95 2000 Kinsella et al. 340 819 20 1992 and has also been shown to be effective in reversing hypoxic vasoconstriction in newborn lambs Frostell et al. 83 2038 47 1991 . A second purpose was to determine the duration of effect of a short nitrite nebulization versus NO gas inhalation on hemodynamic and physiological measurements during prolonged hypoxic induced pulmonary vasoconstriction. After baseline measurements were performed the lambs were made hypoxic as described above for 35 minutes. Ten minutes after initiation of hypoxia a 20 minute period of NO gas inhalation was initiated 20 ppm with continuation of hypoxia for 5 minutes after cessation of NO gas delivery. Lambs were then allowed to recover for one hour. Again after baseline measurements were made a second 90 minute period of hypoxia was initiated. Ten minutes after initiation of hypoxia sodium nitrite aerosol was administered for 20 minutes with continuation of hypoxia for 60 minutes after cessation of nitrite aerosolization .

Measurement of exhaled NO. Exhaled NO concentration was measured with a chemiluminescence NO analyzer NOA 280 Sievers Instruments Inc. Boulder Colo. . The chemiluminescence analyzer was calibrated with NO free air and NO gas 45 parts per million according to the manufacturer s recommendations. NO was sampled though a Teflon sidearm attached to a sampling port at the proximal end of the endotracheal tube through which flow passed to the analyzer at 250 ml min.

In selected early experiments nitrite was nebulized through a ventilator circuit with no lamb connected while NO was measured with the chemiluminescence NO analyzer. In no experiments did nitrite nebulization through the disconnected circuit result in an increase in NO concentration in the ventilated air.

Measurement of plasma nitrite and iron nitrosyl hemoglobin. Blood was drawn from both the brachial artery and central venous catheter and rapidly processed. Plasma was separated after centrifugation frozen immediately on dry ice and then stored at 70 C until assayed for nitrite using the chemiluminescence methodologies Sievers model 280 NO analyzer as previously described Cosby et al. 9 1498 505 2003 Gladwin et al. 277 27818 28 2002 Yang et al. 37 1 10 2003 . The frozen red blood cell pellet was thawed reacted in 8 mM NEM 100 M DTPA and 4 mM ferricyanide incubated for 5 minutes and passed through a Sephadex G25 column Yang et al. 37 1 10 2003 Xu et al. 100 11303 8 2003 . The hemoglobin fraction from the G25 column was quantified by the method of Drabkin 112 51 65 1935 and reacted in 0.1 M HCl 0.5 sulfanilamide to eliminate residual nitrite. The samples were then injected into a solution of tri iodide I in line with a chemiluminescent nitric oxide analyzer Sievers Model 280 NO analyzer Boulder Colo. . NO gas is striped in the tri iodide solution stoichiometrically from iron nitrosyl hemoglobin Yang et al. 37 1 10 2003 .

Electron paramagnetic resonance spectroscopy of whole blood. This was carried out at 110K using a Bruker 4131 VT temperature controller on an EMX 10 12 EPR spectrometer system set at 9.4 GHz 10 mW 5 G modulation 0.08 s time constant and 84 s scan time over 600 G. Each curve represents a single 84 second scan. Concentrations of iron nitrosyl hemoglobin were calculated by comparing the peak to peak heights to a standard sample.

Data acquisition and analysis. Mean arterial pressure pulmonary artery pressure central venous pressure heart rate exhaled NO concentration and core body temperature were measured continuously. Analog signals were digitized at 100 Hz and stored using an analogue to digital converter PowerLab SP ADlnstruments Colorado Springs Colo. and data acquisition software Chart v 5.02 for Macintosh ADlnstruments Colorado Springs Colo. . Following the experiments arterial blood pressure central venous pressure heart rate and exhaled NO measurements were averaged into 60 second blocks.

Statistical analysis. Serial measurements of physiological variables were compared by two way ANOVA with repeated measures with group and time as the factors. Significance of differences was evaluated with a Dunnett s post test. Significant differences from the baseline period were evaluated using one way ANOVA with repeated measures with individual animals and time as the factors. Significance of differences was further evaluated with a Newman Keul s post test. The calculations were done using GraphPad Prism GraphPad Software Inc. San Diego Calif. USA . Statistical significance was assumed with P

Pulmonary Vasodilatory Properties of Aerosolized Nitrite During Hypoxic induced Pulmonary Vasoconstriction

In order to determine the effect of nebulized nitrite on hypoxic pulmonary hypertension seven newborn lambs 2 10 days of age were instrumented under general anesthesia and maintained on mechanical ventilators and morphine infusion. Following baseline stabilization the lambs were subjected to a 30 minute period of hypoxia by lowering FiOto 0.12. Nebulized nitrite or saline was administered for the last 20 minutes of the hypoxic period. Initiation of hypoxia arterial HbO 55 was associated with rapid increases in mean pulmonary artery pressure from 21 1 to 34 2 mmHg P

Pulmonary Vasodilating Properties of Aerosolized Nitrite During Normoxic Drug induced Pulmonary Vasoconstriction

In order to contrast the effects of nebulized nitrite on pulmonary artery pressure in the presence of normal deoxyhemoglobin with those in the presence of reduced oxygenated hemoglobin the effects of nebulized nitrite were studied in a separate group of six lambs subjected to pulmonary hypertension under normoxic conditions. Stable normoxic SaO 98 pulmonary hypertension was induced by infusion of the endoperoxide analog of thromboxane U46619 . Intravenous infusion of U46619 at a rate of 2 g kg min for 30 minutes was associated with rapid increases in pulmonary artery pressure from 24 1 to 51 4 mmHg P

We hypothesize that the biochemical conversion of nitrite to NO requires both deoxyhemoglobin and protonation. Thus data from both the normoxic and hypoxic experiments were used to study the influence of hemoglobin saturation and pH on NO production from nitrite. Measurements of exhaled NO gas and NO modified hemoglobin iron nitrosyl hemoglobin were used as both dosimeters of NO production and as a measure of the direct byproducts of the nitrite reductase reaction of nitrite and hemoglobin to produce NO. shows that iron nitrosyl hemoglobin measured by tri iodide based reductive chemiluminescence and electron paramagnetic resonance was markedly increased by nitrite inhalation during hypoxia but not with drug induced normoxic pulmonary vasoconstriction. As shown in change in mean pulmonary artery pressure during hypoxia after inhalation of nebulized sodium nitrite was related to blood pH with increased vasodilation associated with decreasing pH r 0.57 P 0.055 .

We next compared the efficacy of nitrite with the current therapeutic standard inhaled NO gas. After initiation of hypoxia lambs were subjected to 20 ppm inhaled NO gas or nebulized nitrite for 20 minutes. The data in show the duration and magnitude of the effect of NO gas inhalation or nitrite nebulization on hemodynamic and metabolic measurements during hypoxia. Although both treatments resulted in a pronounced reduction in hypoxic pulmonary hypertension the response to inhaled NO gas was slightly more rapid and pulmonary pressure more nearly approached baseline when contrasted to the 60 70 correction in pressure elicited by nitrite. Systemically mean arterial blood pressure and resistance was reduced to a similar extent with both treatments during hypoxia. However with the relative chemical stability of the nitrite anion compared with NO gas there was sustained vasodilation for more than 60 minutes the duration of the hypoxic challenge after discontinuation of nitrite inhalation whereas the termination of NO gas delivery abolished the vasodilating effect in a matter of seconds . The relatively sustained effect of nitrite nebulization might be therapeutically advantageous by allowing for intermittent therapy analogous to the treatment of asthma with beta adrenergic agonists by meter dose inhaler. The time course of nitrite inhalation induced pulmonary vasodilation and plasma nitrite levels are shown . In this experiment which tracked biochemical changes for a longer period that in methemoglobin MetHb concentrations increased from 2.1 0.1 during baseline to 2.8 0.2 after nitrite nebulization P

A principle finding of this example is that a brief period of inhalation of nebulized sodium nitrite solution produces rapid and selective pulmonary vasodilation during hypoxic induced pulmonary hypertension in newborn lambs. The significant reduction in pulmonary artery pressure following nitrite nebulization was sustained when hypoxia was continued for more than an hour after termination of nitrite nebulization. In none of the experiments did nitrite inhalation produce systemic hypotension and methemoglobin elevation was minimal. From a mechanistic standpoint nitrite administration was associated with NO production measured by exhaled NO gas and NO modified hemoglobin with responses in proportion to levels of hemoglobin oxygen desaturation and decreases in blood pH. These data support the paradigm that nitrite is an NO dependent vasodilator whose bioactivation is coupled to hemoglobin deoxygenation and protonation.

Inhaled NO gas is the current standard for the treatment of pulmonary hypertension. provides a comparison of the effects of NO gas at 20 ppm with those of aerosolized nitrite. In about 5 minutes the NO gas effectively ablated about 80 of hypoxic induced pulmonary hypertension an effect that was short lived but which could be reproduced when it was given again 20 minutes later. Aerosolized sodium nitrite removed about 60 of hypoxic induced pulmonary hypertension. This response was consistently observed in each of the lambs studied and it persisted throughout the one hour period of hypoxia that was maintained after the nitrite aerosol was discontinued. The changes in pulmonary blood flow were accompanied by corresponding changes in the calculated resistance to blood flow through the lungs indicating that changes were in the pulmonary vasculature rather than secondary to changes in cardiac output or systemic effects that might have altered perfusion pressures.

We demonstrate herein that aerosolized nitrite is an NO producing agent in the newborn lamb that can be readily administered by nebulization and appears to exhibit a wide therapeutic to safety margin with limited systemic hemodynamic changes and methemoglobin production. This presents an attractive therapeutic option to inhaled NO. Nitrite is an ideal NO producing agent in that it 1 is a naturally occurring compound in blood alveolar lining fluid and tissue and 2 has no parent compound leaving group such as the diazenium diolates that requires extensive toxicological study prior to translation to human disease and 3 it is already approved for human use in cyanide antidote kits. These advantages are to be counterbalanced against possible problems that might occur with more prolonged delivery including alveolar nitrite accumulation systemic vasodilation and the development of methemoglobinemia.

In conclusion the data presented in this example suggest that inhaled nitrite is a potent and selective vasodilator of pulmonary circulation of the newborn lamb and further support the paradigm that nitrite and particularly salts of nitrite such as sodium nitrite is an NO dependent vasodilator whose bioactivation is coupled to hemoglobin deoxygenation and protonation. In none of our studies did inhaling nitrite produce systemic hypotension or elevate methemoglobin levels.

This example describes a method for using nitrite infusion to prevent cerebral artery vasospasm after intracranial hemorrhage.

Subarachnoid hemorrhage SAH due to the rupture of intracranial aneurysms affects 28 000 Americans annually. Almost 70 of patients with aneurysmal SAH develop severe spasm of the cerebral arteries on the seventh day after SAH. Despite aggressive medical therapy neurological deficits resulting from vasospasm continue to be a major cause of morbidity and mortality. Although the etiology of cerebral vasospasm is poorly understood there is increasing evidence that erythrocyte hemolysis in the cerebrospinal fluid and decreased availability of nitric oxide NO a potent vasodilator plays a significant role. Reversal of vasospasm by NO or NO prodrugs has been documented in several animal models.

Despite half a century of research and clinical trials delayed cerebral vasospasm DCV remains the single cause of permanent neurological deficits or death in at least fifteen percent of patients following otherwise successful endovascular or surgical treatment for ruptured intracranial aneurysm. Decreased bioavailability of nitric oxide NO has been mechanistically associated with the development of DCV. This work was carried out to determine whether infusions of nitrite a naturally occurring anion that reacts with deoxyhemoglobin to form NO and S nitrosothiol might prevent DCV via reactions with perivascular hemoglobin.

An autologous arterial blood clot was placed around the right middle cerebral artery R MCA of 14 anesthetized Cynomolgus monkeys at day 0. Sodium nitrite solution NaNO 135 mg daily and 180 mg daily which approximates 45 mg kg and 60 mg kg per day in 0.9 saline n 6 or saline alone n 8 was infused intravenously for 14 days in awake animals via an ambulatory MiniMed Infusion Pump at 2 l minute. Cerebral arteriogram was performed before clot placement and on days 7 and 14 for assessment of DCV. Arteriographic vasospasm was defined as a 25 or greater reduction in the proximal 14 mm of the R MCA area as measured on the AP projection of the cerebral arteriogram blinded assessment . Mean arterial blood pressure was measured and blood samples were collected daily from day 0 the cerebral spinal fluid samples were collected on day 0 7 and 14.

In control animals cerebral spinal fluid nitrite levels decreased from 3.1 1.5 M to 0.4 0.1 M at 7 days and 0.4 0.4 M at 14 days and all eight animals developed significant vasospasm of the R MCA complicated by stroke and death in one animal.

Nitrite infusions were associated with increases in plasma cerebrospinal fluid nitrite and blood methemoglobin concentrations without systemic hypotension and significantly reduced the severity of vasospasm no animals developed significant vasospasm mean reduction in the R MCA area on day after SAH was 8 9 versus 45 5 P

Subacute sodium nitrite infusions prevent DCV in a primate model of SAH and do so without toxicity. These data evince a novel safe inexpensive and rationally designed therapy for DCV a disease for which no current preventative therapy exists.

While in the foregoing specification this invention has been described in relation to certain preferred embodiments thereof and many details have been set forth for purposes of illustration it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that the invention is susceptible to additional embodiments and that certain of the details described herein may be varied considerably without departing from the basic principles of the invention.

