---

title: Method and system for enhancing delivery of third party content
abstract: An approach for enabling third party video content to be assigned a higher priority for delivery over a service provider network is described. A content delivery platform determines whether a third party content provider or video content to be delivered fulfill one or more criteria for permitting the content delivery system direct access to a video on demand network of a network provider. The content delivery platform then assigns a higher delivery priority to the video content based on the direct access of the video on demand network by the content delivery system.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08763057&OS=08763057&RS=08763057
owner: Verizon Patent and Licensing Inc.
number: 08763057
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121106
---
Service providers are continually challenged to deliver value and convenience to consumers by providing compelling network services and advancing the underlying technologies. One area of interest has been the development of services and technologies for enhancing the content viewing experience of users. Many third party content providers provide applications for enabling users to access and execute content such as video on demand from their user devices. Timely delivery of the content to the user devices depends on the condition of the service provider network e.g. the amount of congestion as well as priority assigned to the content for delivery over the network. Unfortunately third party content provider systems are not well integrated with service provider networks consequently delivery of content e.g. video may lack prioritization.

Based on the foregoing there is a need for more integration among content systems and service provider infrastructure to provide effective prioritization of third party video content.

An apparatus method and software for enabling third party video content to be assigned a higher priority for delivery over a service provider network are described. In the following description for the purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. It is apparent however to one skilled in the art that the present invention may be practiced without these specific details or with an equivalent arrangement. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the present invention.

Although the various exemplary embodiments are described with respect to video content it is contemplated that these embodiments have applicability to content and media of various types. This may include for example audio live or on demand streaming media multimedia content web objects e.g. text graphics scripts downloadable objects e.g. media files software documents applications e.g. e commerce portals social networks and the like for on demand execution. As will be discussed more fully herein the content may be generated and or provided by one or more third party content providers for use in connection with a content delivery scheme subscription based media platform or the like.

In some instances the user devices may be configured to a service provider network . For example the user devices may include smartphones tablets set top boxes and other devices that employ the network infrastructure of the service provider to access public e.g. Internet and private networks perform wireless and telephony based communication exchange data etc. Under this scenario when a user of a device requests content the CDN associated with the content provider conveys the content to the network to which the user device is configured rather than to the user device directly. Resultantly the traffic as received is handled by the service provider network as over the top traffic OTT i.e. traffic that originates from an external data source of the content provider rather than directly from the provider of the network . The service provider network therefore assigns a lesser delivery priority e.g. best effort to the content than assigned to other forms of traffic requiring transport via the network.

Due to this prioritization the content is often delivered to the user device only after other higher priority traffic is transported thus reducing the rate of delivery of the content to the requesting user. Furthermore the overall quality of the content is diminished as the content is only permitted to be rendered at lower bit rates and resolutions versus other traffic. Still further in cases where the service provider network experiences packet loss latency or other adverse traffic conditions the third party content is more susceptible to being dropped e.g. eliminated from the packet queue . All of these factors affect the quality of the user experience and the ability of third party content providers to meet customer demands.

To address these issues system of introduces a content delivery platform which is configured to interact with the service provider network and CDNs referred to herein collectively as content delivery networks for enabling more effective optimized delivery of third party external content referred to herein collectively as content . For the purpose of illustration optimized delivery of third party content pertains to means for enabling a higher delivery priority to be assigned to packets comprising the content for transport via a service provider network . In addition the optimization includes means for enabling a higher bit rate or resolution encoding of the packets comprising the content for transport via the network . As will be discussed further the content delivery platform enables these optimization factors to be executed in connection with third party content conveyed to the network according to a direct access scheme. The direct access includes enabling formation of a direct connection between a CDN or other delivery agent associated with a content provider and an internal content delivery system or node of the service provider network .

The content delivery platform may be implemented for execution within a service provider network. According to certain embodiments one or more networks such as data network telephony network and or wireless network can interact with the service provider network . Networks may be any suitable wireline and or wireless network and be managed by one or more service providers. For example telephony network may include a circuit switched network such as the public switched telephone network PSTN an integrated services digital network ISDN a private branch exchange PBX or other like network. Wireless network may employ various technologies including for example code division multiple access CDMA long term evolution LTE enhanced data rates for global evolution EDGE general packet radio service GPRS mobile ad hoc network MANET global system for mobile communications GSM Internet protocol multimedia subsystem IMS universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS etc. as well as any other suitable wireless medium e.g. microwave access WiMAX wireless fidelity WiFi satellite and the like. Meanwhile data network may be any local area network LAN metropolitan area network MAN wide area network WAN the Internet or any other suitable packet switched network such as a commercially owned proprietary packet switched network such as a proprietary cable or fiber optic network.

Although depicted as separate entities networks may be completely or partially contained within one another or may embody one or more of the aforementioned infrastructures. For instance service provider network may embody circuit switched and or packet switched networks that include facilities to provide for transport of circuit switched and or packet based communications. It is further contemplated that networks may include components and facilities to provide for signaling and or bearer communications between the various components or facilities of system . In this manner networks may embody or include portions of a signaling system 7 SS7 network Internet protocol multimedia subsystem IMS or other suitable infrastructure to support control and signaling functions. The content delivery platform may be further interfaced with external networks including those of third party content providers by way of various network interface and sharing arrangements and policies.

Still further networks may embody various content delivery components and facilities which operate in connection with one another as an integrated video on demand VOD network. In this manner the various components may be interconnected for enabling the transport of video content broadcast signals and other content. For example the VOD network may include one or more Super Head Ends SHEs which are national content centers for maintaining various television and video distribution equipment and content. The SHEs aggregate the content e.g. as provided by one or more third party content providers processes the content and encodes it per a given encoding format then distributes the content through its network to one or more video hub offices VHOs . The VHOs serve as regional offices for distributing content received from one or more Super Head Ends SHE to end users within the region. Hence the Video Hub Office VHO integrates the national content with any local regional content e.g. local advertisement media for facilitating the on demand services of various users e.g. each VHO may serve a number of homes within a given metropolitan area .

The VOD network may also include one or more video switching offices VSOs which map the content for routing through an access network to the requesting device e.g. set top box smartphone of a user. The VSO may include an array of relays gateways switches routers servers and other components that are interconnected by way of various cables and channels for facilitating distribution of the content. It is noted that the VOD network may be accessed by subscribed user devices in connection with a video on demand service offering. For the purpose of illustration the service provider network may be taken as synonymous with or inclusive of a VOD network.

According to exemplary embodiments one or more of the user devices may be utilized to communicate over system and may include any customer premise equipment CPE capable of sending and or receiving information over one or more of networks . For instance a voice terminal may be any suitable plain old telephone service POTS device facsimile machine etc. whereas mobile device or terminal may be any cellular phone radiophone satellite phone smartphone wireless phone or any other suitable mobile device such as a personal digital assistant PDA pocket personal computer tablet customized hardware etc. Further the user devices may be any suitable computing device such as a VoIP phone skinny client control protocol SCCP phone session initiation protocol SIP phone IP phone personal computer softphone workstation terminal server etc. In certain embodiments the user devices referred to herein collectively as user devices may further execute various applications referred to herein collectively as applications for initiating content requests via the network . This includes video content of third party providers which may be optimized for delivery to the user devices via the service provider network by the content delivery platform .

It is noted that in addition to being subscribed with the network for enabling video on demand the user may also be subscribed with the third party content provider for accessing content . For example a media player application or movie player may feature various user interface elements for enabling movie or television broadcast content selections of the third party content provider e.g. a provider of content outside of the VOD network . Under this scenario the content delivery platform enables such selections to be delivered from an external delivery system of the third party content provider e.g. a content delivery network CDN to the user devices configured to the VOD network e.g. via service provider network in the optimal manner described above i.e. with a higher delivery priority or higher format.

In certain embodiments the content delivery platform may be implemented as a network service e.g. cloud or hosted solution capable of being called upon by a component of the network in response to traffic from the CDN . Alternatively the content delivery platform may be implemented as an embedded controller configured for operation with respect to a component of the network . In either implementation the platform may receive a signal from a network access point NAP of the service provider network for indicating a traffic delivery request from a CDN associated with a content provider. The network access point NAP may be a router or bridge of a backbone network not shown of the service provider network for interfacing with the CDN . It is noted that the NAP may parse various packets of the video content including packet header information to determine the delivery request. The packet headers may include bits for specifying a service type delivery protocol destination and source a unique identifier associated with the third party content provider etc.

In certain embodiments the content delivery platform determines whether the traffic as received is eligible to be assigned a higher delivery priority for transport via the video on demand network. Also the content delivery platform determines an eligibility of the encoding of the third party video content to be adapted for enabling a higher quality of the video. By way of example the determination is based on one or more admission control policies of the provider of the network which specify various rules and criteria for permitting deployment of third party content via direct access to the video on demand network. For the purpose of illustration the direct access pertains to establishment of a direct connection channel or network pathway between the content delivery network and the VOD network such that the third party video content may correspond to e.g. substantially match a delivery priority of video content that originates directly from a VHO VSO or other content center or component associated with the video on demand network. As such the third party traffic is not routed through the service provider network to bypass the VOD network. Nor is the traffic managed as over the top traffic OTT traffic as is typical for third party content where it is delivered as best effort traffic instead of priority traffic or encoded at lower bit rates.

By way of example the admission control policies may specify that the third party content provider from which the video content originates be registered with the content delivery platform in advance. Hence the content delivery platform may determine whether this condition is met by cross referencing the third party video content against established profile information for registered third party content providers. As noted previously the registration may be established based on an agreement between the provider of the network and the third party content provider. The cross referencing may include comparing a unique identifier IP address or other details regarding the traffic against a network provider assigned identifier network location information of the source content network location information of the affiliated CDN or other profile information . Per these criteria only those third party content providers registered with the provider of the content delivery platform e.g. the network provider may enable optimized delivery of their video content while that of unregistered third party content providers is delivered as standard or best effort traffic.

As another example the policies may specify the video content of the third party provider be pushed by the CDN in advance of a delivery request or pulled from the CDN or origin server of the content provider in response to a delivery request. Under this scenario pulling of the third party content is performed by an internal content delivery network associated with the video on demand network in real time upon receipt of the content delivery request. The internal content delivery network may be configured to operate in connection with a VHO or other content center of the network for facilitating the transport of content. As such the content delivery platform may cross reference the profile information associated with the requesting content provider to determine a source network location of the content to be pulled. In the case of a push operation as conducted by the content provider a metafile e.g. extended markup language may be submitted to the VOD network service provider network for indicating the location of the content to be pushed. Under this scenario the push operation is performed in advance of submission of a delivery request or according to a predetermined schedule.

As another example the policies may specify the content be transcoded adaptively so as to ensure the content does not fall below a predetermined quality threshold due to network traffic conditions. In certain embodiments the content delivery platform receives feedback regarding the status condition of the VOD network from a monitoring system in order to determine whether the quality threshold e.g. an amount of network degradation has been fulfilled. This may include for example feedback for indicating an amount rate of packet loss occurring at the network a measure of time delay experienced in the system latency a level of instability of the network jitter etc. When the threshold is met the content delivery platform further determines a type of delivery priority to be assigned to the content including an adaptive priority wherein the priority adjusts as the status of the VOD network changes. By way of this approach the delivery priority of respective packets may be initially set to a lower value but increase as network conditions become more favorable.

In certain embodiments the delivery priority may correspond to a value of a bit e.g. internet protocol IP precedence bit or quality of service value as encoded in the various packets comprising the content . Alternatively the delivery priority may be assigned based on a class of service value or ranking assigned to specific content and or content providers e.g. business class versus residential class . The prioritization schemes may vary from one network provider to the next. It is noted however that the content delivery platform may signal the internal CDN to adapt the delivery priority assigned to the third party content for facilitating transport of the content to the user devices via the network. In the case of adaptive transcoding of the content the content delivery platform may optionally signal to a degree of degradation has been met.

Also in certain embodiments the content delivery platform may cause the internal CDN to adapt the format of the third party video content based on the determination of whether the third party content provider or the video content fulfills the one or more established policies . By way of example the different format corresponds to a higher bit rate or resolution of the third party video content being applied to the video content e.g. from 720p to 1080p which enhances the viewing experience of the user of the user device . Under this approach the third party video content may be of a format that matches that of content originating from a content center associated with the video on demand network.

As noted the above described policies which are executed based on the fulfillment of specific criteria dictate whether or not the third party traffic is eligible for being transported to end user devices as if the traffic originated from within the VOD network. As such the third party video content may be marked with the same priority as video content originating from a VHO or VSO. By way of this approach certain categories of traffic originating from the VHO such as video on demand or interactive media guide data can be excluded from usage based billing with the user devices .

It is also noted the above described delivery optimization procedure carried out by the content delivery platform differs from transparent caching of the third party content. For example transparent caching requires the VOD network of the service provider network to cache certain content locally to reduce overall network bandwidth and cost for the network provider. In contrast assigning a higher delivery priority or format to third party content enables content providers a reliable means of directing content on demand to subscribed users of the network . Also per this approach the network provider may derive revenue from third party content providers that require reliable high quality content delivery to their customers. Hence rather than being employed as cost savings mechanism the approach described herein may be presented as a service offering to any third party content providers through a commercial agreement.

In addition the content delivery platform also maintains policies for specifying criteria to be fulfilled for permitting direct access to a VOD network by third party external content providers. Also profile information is maintained for the third party content providers. It is noted the modules of the content delivery platform may access databases and for performing various executable functions.

In one embodiment an authentication module authenticates third party content providers for interaction with the content delivery platform . By way of example the authentication module receives a request from a content provider to subscribe to the platform . The subscription process may include establishing a location of source content to be delivered via the network of the service provider a name and or type of format of the different content selections a location of a content delivery network associated with the content provider etc. In addition the subscription process may include establishing a fee or revenue sharing arrangement between the content provider and the provider of the VOD network for enabling transport of content to user devices . Once established the subscription details may be stored as profile information .

In addition the subscription process may include the uploading of metadata in association with profile information of a content provider for specifying video content to be pushed to the VOD network. This corresponds to a push operation of the content provider for interaction with the content delivery platform and is executed in advance of delivery requests such as through establishment of a predetermined schedule. Also the authentication module may be configured to access the CDN or another data source of the third party content provider for pulling content in real time. Of note the authentication module may generate a signal for indicating to the internal CDN that one or more content selections are to be pushed based on the metafile.

In one embodiment the network feedback module determines a current network condition of the VOD network. This may include receiving feedback information regarding currently latency conditions jitter etc. as measured by one or more other networking monitoring systems of the VOD network. In another embodiment the policy determination module may be configured to determine whether a particular content provider and or particular video content meets specific criteria for enabling direct access to the VOD network. By way of example the policy determination module may receive the data from the feedback module for determining whether a certain level of network quality e.g. degradation is achieved. As another example the policy determination module may compare packets of traffic to be delivered against the profile data to determine a match between the content a unique identifier of the requesting content provider etc. It is noted that the policies are established by the network provider per a service agreement between the network provider and different third party content providers.

In another embodiment the adaptation module causes a delivery priority of the traffic to be adapted based on the results of the policy determination module . In addition the adaptation module may adapt a format of video content based on the results of the policy determination module . For example the adaptation module may generate a signal for causing an internal CDN to adjust and or set a quality of service marking IP precedence bit or other value of the various packets of third party content in response to one or more criteria of the content provider video content being fulfilled. As another example the delivery priority may be adapted and or set to a higher value in response to a determination that the requesting third party content provider is registered with the content delivery platform or that the CDN for conveying the third party content is recognized by the platform.

Still further the priority of the packets may be adapted in response to a determined level or status of the VOD network. For example a higher bit rate or resolution of the traffic may be assigned to packets based on fulfillment of the various policies or due to current network conditions. Still further a quality of service marking of video content packets may be transcoded as adaptive to enable them to adjust to higher levels of delivery priority dynamically in response to network status changes. Still further per the policies the adaptation module may at times assign an adaptive priority or format to the various packets for enabling the delivery priority or format to adjust as the status of the VOD network changes.

In one embodiment the user interface module facilitates generation of various interfaces for enabling users and advertisement providers to interact with the content delivery platform . This includes for example generation of a content provisioning interface for enabling third party content providers to input and or define metadata for enabling the pushing of select video content to the VOD network in advance. By way of example the user interface module may generate different user interface elements for selection by registered third party content providers such as action buttons for receiving the appropriate input from users in connection with the advertisement content. It is noted that the user interface module may be activated by way of various application programming interfaces APIs or other function calls at a computing device of the third party content provider.

In one embodiment the communication module executes various protocols and data sharing techniques for enabling collaborative execution between the content delivery platform and the VOD network. For example the communication module may generate a signal for indicating a delivery priority of incoming traffic is to be adapted by an internal content delivery system. As another example the communication module may generate and transmit a signal to a network access point of the VOD network for indicating a traffic delivery request is being presented.

The above described modules and components of the content delivery platform can be implemented in hardware firmware software or a combination thereof. Though depicted as a separate entity in it is contemplated that the content delivery platform may be implemented for direct operation by various components of the service provider network such as a router gateway backbone system or other network access point. As such the platform generates direct signal inputs by way of the operating system of the network access point. In another embodiment one or more of the modules may be implemented for operation as a platform maintained as a hosted solution.

In step of process the content delivery platform receives a request for delivery video content to a user device by way of a video on demand network of a network provider. The request may be conveyed to the video on demand network i.e. via a network access point of the network by a content delivery system associated with a third party content provider. In another step the platform determines based on an admission control policy of the network provider whether the third party content provider or the video content fulfill one or more criteria for permitting the content delivery system direct access to the video on demand network. As noted previously the criteria set forth by the policies may include a registration status of the content provider with respect to the content delivery platform or a network status of the network. In addition the criteria may pertain to an accessibility of related video content as provided by the third party content provider in advance of a delivery request e.g. per a push procedure .

In step the content delivery platform establishes direct access to the video on demand network by the content delivery system. As noted the direct access includes access to an internal content delivery system associated with the video on demand network. Per step the internal content delivery system is caused by the content delivery platform to assign a higher delivery priority to the video content based on the direct access of the video on demand network by the customer deliver system. It is noted that the higher delivery priority corresponds to a delivery priority of video content that originates directly from a content center e.g. a video hub office associated with the video on demand network. For example such correspondence of priorities enables the video content to be delivered using substantially matching priorities as to ensure similar or comparable quality e.g. from the perspective of the users or subscribers .

In step of process the content delivery platform determines a status of the video on demand network. This may include for example receiving status information from a monitoring system employed by the network provider. Of note the status is based on an amount of congestion of the video on demand network an amount of pending or scheduled delivery requests a mode of operation of the video on demand network or a combination thereof. In another step the platform determines a type of delivery priority to be assigned to the video content a type of format of the video content or a combination thereof. The type of delivery priority is based on a quality of service marking associated with the video content. Also the delivery priority is adaptive such that it may be adjusted up as network conditions change over time.

In step the content delivery platform assigns a different format to the video content based on the determination of whether the third party content provider or the video content to be delivered fulfills the one or more criteria. As noted previously the different format enables the video content to substantially match a format of content that originates from a content center associated with the video on demand network. Also the assigned format of the video content is of a higher bit rate or higher resolution. By way of example the format may be adapted assigned from a standard resolution to a higher resolution for enhancing the user viewing experience.

Per step of process the content delivery platform triggers the internal content delivery system of the video on demand network to pull the video content from the content delivery system. As noted previously the pulling is performed in real time in response to a delivery request submitted to the VOD network by a third party content provider. It is noted that per the direct access to the VOD network the third party content provider may redirect specific video on demand requests to internal content delivery network of the network provider thus triggering pulling of the requested content from the origin server of the third party content provider.

The content delivery platform causes the internal content delivery system of the service provider network to interact with the third party content provider based on a push procedure. As such per step of process the internal content delivery system receives in advance of the request select video content from the content delivery system of the third party content provider based on metadata for specifying the select video content associated with the content delivery system. In another step the internal content delivery system also stores the select video content to the internal content delivery system associated with the video on demand network. As noted previously the metadata may include data for specifying a name source location and format of the select video content. Also the video content to be delivered per the original video on demand request is retrieved from the internal content delivery system for delivery to the user device by way of the video on demand network.

In the interface presents a content list for receiving user input regarding the content to be pushed to the VOD network. A first column of the list e.g. table corresponds to data for indicating a media type to be pushed. A second column and third column of the list corresponds to a name and network location of the content. The name may correspond to a filename or alternatively a commercial name to which the content is related e.g. the name of an album or movie . The fourth and fifth column of the list corresponds to a size and format type of the content to be pushed. The list may be populated manually by the content provider or by way of a selection process per an ADD SELECT MORE action button .

In the latter case for example when the content provider activates the ADD SELECT MORE action button a file selection window may be presented to the user. From this window the user may highlight via mouse one or more files to be pushed to the VOD network including movies audio and other forms of media. Upon acceptance of these selections the various entries columns of the list for each selected file content item are populated accordingly. Once the list is populated the content provider may select the GENERATE METAFILE action button in order to create a metafile corresponding to the list . Hence the metafile may specify the various content selections along with the corresponding characteristics of each selection. Under this scenario the content provider may enter a filename to associate with the metafile via a user entry field then publish the metafile through selection of a PUBLISH METAFILE action button .

It is noted that the published metafile may generated as an XML file text file or per any other format. Also publishing of the metafile may pertain to storage of the metafile as generated at an agreed upon network location for retrieval by the network service provider i.e. the metafile may be maintained by the content delivery platform in connection with profile information for the content provider. The publishing and formatting requirements may be established per the service agreement between the third party content provider and the provider of the VOD network. In addition the metafile may be adapted periodically or on demand by the content provider for impacting the availability of on demand content via the VOD network. Of note the push procedure is executed based on direct access of the third party content provider to the VOD network.

In step A the content at the origin server of a third party content provider conveys its content to be delivered to a content delivery network CDN edge device configured to a network e.g. the Internet . In step B the CDN edge device then submits a request for delivery of the content to the service provider network . While not shown the content request may be initially received by a network access point not shown of the service provider network . It is noted that in the absence of a direct access service agreement between the content provider and the network provider the content at step B would be passed to a least cost router LCR and onto a standard array of gateways OLT Optical Line Terminal and ONT Optical Network Terminal ONU Optical Network Unit broadband routers etc. for delivery to the customer premise thus completely bypassing the primary components and facilities of the VOD network .

After the request is acknowledged and it is determined the traffic received and the third party content provider meet one or more admission control policies criteria direct access to the VOD network is enabled per the request. As such in step C the content is further passed on the internal CDN of the service provider network . The internal CDN is configured to operate in connection with the video on demand complex e.g. the VHO wherein the internal CDN may permit the delivery of the third party content along with or at the same level of priority as content originating from the VHO . In addition the internal CDN may adapt a format of the content to be delivered such that the resolution or bit rate quality of the video is substantially similar to content originating directly from the VHO . As noted this assignment adaptation is triggered for execution by the internal content delivery network by the content delivery platform .

As such in steps D and E the content is assigned a higher delivery priority and transported from the internal CDN to a video digital recording VDR system and value added reseller system respectively. At these points along the delivery path the content may be integrated for use in connection with a VDR media center of the user devices as well as localized relative to the location of the users e.g. local commercial content integration . At step F the content is then transported to the standard array of gateways optical connectors etc. for ultimate delivery to the requesting user device at the customer premise corresponding to step G. It is noted that the content which originated from an external content provider is thus delivered upon request as if it originated from the VHO of the service provider network to which the user devices are configured.

It is further noted that in the case of a push procedure the third party content provider may expose metadata to the VOD network for indicating which content is to be pushed to the internal CDN in advance of a delivery request. By way of example the metafile published for access by the VOD network may specify a location of the content as an origin server . Under this scenario the content delivery platform generates a signal for indicating to the internal CDN that content is to be pushed. Thus the content as specified per the metafile is directed to the internal CDN by the origin server of the third party content provider corresponding to step H.

The exemplary techniques and systems presented herein enables video on demand VOD network providers to permit direct access to their network by third party content providers. By way of this direct access the third party content may be delivered to end users via the VOD network at a higher delivery priority or higher format. In addition the network service providers may receive incentives from the third party content providers for enabling the direct access.

The processes described herein for enabling third party video content to be assigned a higher priority for delivery over a service provider network may be implemented via software hardware e.g. general processor Digital Signal Processing DSP chip an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs etc. firmware or a combination thereof. Such exemplary hardware for performing the described functions is detailed below.

The computer system may be coupled via the bus to a display such as a cathode ray tube CRT liquid crystal display active matrix display or plasma display for displaying information to a computer user. An input device such as a keyboard including alphanumeric and other keys is coupled to the bus for communicating information and command selections to the processor . Another type of user input device is a cursor control such as a mouse a trackball or cursor direction keys for communicating direction information and command selections to the processor and for adjusting cursor movement on the display .

According to an embodiment of the invention the processes described herein are performed by the computer system in response to the processor executing an arrangement of instructions contained in main memory . Such instructions can be read into main memory from another computer readable medium such as the storage device . Execution of the arrangement of instructions contained in main memory causes the processor to perform the process steps described herein. One or more processors in a multiprocessing arrangement may also be employed to execute the instructions contained in main memory . In alternative embodiments hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement the embodiment of the invention. Thus embodiments of the invention are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software.

The computer system also includes a communication interface coupled to bus . The communication interface provides a two way data communication coupling to a network link connected to a local network . For example the communication interface may be a digital subscriber line DSL card or modem an integrated services digital network ISDN card a cable modem a telephone modem or any other communication interface to provide a data communication connection to a corresponding type of communication line. As another example communication interface may be a local area network LAN card e.g. for Ethernet or an Asynchronous Transfer Mode ATM network to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN. Wireless links can also be implemented. In any such implementation communication interface sends and receives electrical electromagnetic or optical signals that carry digital data streams representing various types of information. Further the communication interface can include peripheral interface devices such as a Universal Serial Bus USB interface a PCMCIA Personal Computer Memory Card International Association interface etc. Although a single communication interface is depicted in multiple communication interfaces can also be employed.

The network link typically provides data communication through one or more networks to other data devices. For example the network link may provide a connection through local network to a host computer which has connectivity to a network e.g. a wide area network WAN or the global packet data communication network now commonly referred to as the Internet or to data equipment operated by a service provider. The local network and the network both use electrical electromagnetic or optical signals to convey information and instructions. The signals through the various networks and the signals on the network link and through the communication interface which communicate digital data with the computer system are exemplary forms of carrier waves bearing the information and instructions.

The computer system can send messages and receive data including program code through the network s the network link and the communication interface . In the Internet example a server not shown might transmit requested code belonging to an application program for implementing an embodiment of the invention through the network the local network and the communication interface . The processor may execute the transmitted code while being received and or store the code in the storage device or other non volatile storage for later execution. In this manner the computer system may obtain application code in the form of a carrier wave.

The term computer readable medium as used herein refers to any medium that participates in providing instructions to the processor for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to computer readable storage medium or non transitory i.e. non volatile media and volatile media and transmission media. Non volatile media include for example optical or magnetic disks such as the storage device . Volatile media include dynamic memory such as main memory . Transmission media include coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including the wires that comprise the bus . Transmission media can also take the form of acoustic optical or electromagnetic waves such as those generated during radio frequency RF and infrared IR data communications. Common forms of computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium a CD ROM CDRW DVD any other optical medium punch cards paper tape optical mark sheets any other physical medium with patterns of holes or other optically recognizable indicia a RAM a PROM and EPROM a FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer can read.

Various forms of computer readable media may be involved in providing instructions to a processor for execution. For example the instructions for carrying out at least part of the embodiments of the invention may initially be borne on a magnetic disk of a remote computer. In such a scenario the remote computer loads the instructions into main memory and sends the instructions over a telephone line using a modem. A modem of a local computer system receives the data on the telephone line and uses an infrared transmitter to convert the data to an infrared signal and transmit the infrared signal to a portable computing device such as a personal digital assistant PDA or a laptop. An infrared detector on the portable computing device receives the information and instructions borne by the infrared signal and places the data on a bus. The bus conveys the data to main memory from which a processor retrieves and executes the instructions. The instructions received by main memory can optionally be stored on storage device either before or after execution by processor.

In one embodiment the chip set or chip includes a communication mechanism such as a bus for passing information among the components of the chip set . A processor has connectivity to the bus to execute instructions and process information stored in for example a memory . The processor may include one or more processing cores with each core configured to perform independently. A multi core processor enables multiprocessing within a single physical package. Examples of a multi core processor include two four eight or greater numbers of processing cores. Alternatively or in addition the processor may include one or more microprocessors configured in tandem via the bus to enable independent execution of instructions pipelining and multithreading. The processor may also be accompanied with one or more specialized components to perform certain processing functions and tasks such as one or more digital signal processors DSP or one or more application specific integrated circuits ASIC . A DSP typically is configured to process real world signals e.g. sound in real time independently of the processor . Similarly an ASIC can be configured to performed specialized functions not easily performed by a more general purpose processor. Other specialized components to aid in performing the inventive functions described herein may include one or more field programmable gate arrays FPGA not shown one or more controllers not shown or one or more other special purpose computer chips.

In one embodiment the chip set or chip includes merely one or more processors and some software and or firmware supporting and or relating to and or for the one or more processors.

The processor and accompanying components have connectivity to the memory via the bus . The memory includes both dynamic memory e.g. RAM magnetic disk writable optical disk etc. and static memory e.g. ROM CD ROM etc. for storing executable instructions that when executed perform the inventive steps described herein to enable third party video content to be assigned a higher priority for delivery over a service provider network. The memory also stores the data associated with or generated by the execution of the inventive steps.

While certain exemplary embodiments and implementations have been described herein other embodiments and modifications will be apparent from this description. Accordingly the invention is not limited to such embodiments but rather to the broader scope of the presented claims and various obvious modifications and equivalent arrangements.

