---

title: Generation of an interface with computer-executable options and visual elements based on collected social network data
abstract: A network device is configured to receive purchase information and receive, from a social networking server, information regarding a friend of the user. The network device is further configured to receive additional purchase information associated with the friend. The network device is further configured to generate, based on a result of comparing the purchase information and the additional purchase information, a recommendation, and send the recommendation to a user device associated with the user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09373140&OS=09373140&RS=09373140
owner: Verizon Patent and Licensing Inc.
number: 09373140
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121129
---
A user may purchase one or more services from a network service provider. These services may include telephone services cellular phone services Internet services television services and or other communication services. The user may have the option to upgrade one or more of the services e.g. upgrade a television service to include a premium movie package that the user has purchased to from the network service provider.

The following detailed description refers to the accompanying drawings. The same reference numbers in different drawings may identify the same or similar elements.

Systems and or methods described herein may permit a network device to send a recommendation to a user to upgrade products and or services that the user has purchased from a network service provider based on the user s friend purchasing upgraded products and or services from the network service provider. For example a user may purchase a television service without a premium movie package while the friend of the user may purchase the television service with the premium movie package. The network device may determine that the friend is purchasing an upgraded television service and may send a recommendation to the user to upgrade to the premium movie package based on the friend having purchased to the premium movie package.

With the user of user device logged into the user s account the user profile server may send a notification to the recommendation server. The recommendation server may obtain information about the user from the user profile server and the social networking server based on having permission to receive the information.

The recommendation server may obtain information about the user from the user profile server. This may include information about products and or services that the user purchased from the network service provider. Assume that one of the services is a television service that includes a premium movie package.

The recommendation server may obtain information about the user from the social networking server. This may include information about the user s friends such as the user s friends names addresses the user s likes the user s dislikes and or other information. The recommendation server may determine which of the user s friends also receive services from the network service provider. The recommendation server may request the user profile server to determine whether any of the user s friends have purchased products and or service from the network service provider. Assume that the user profile server determines that one of the user s friends has purchased a television service without the premium movie package. The recommendation server may compare the services purchased by the user and the services purchased by the user s friends and determine whether the user or the friend has purchased an upgraded service. Based upon this determination the recommendation server may determine that the user s friend has not purchased the premium movie package and that the user has purchased the premium movie package.

The recommendation server may send a message to user device . The message may as shown in request sending a recommendation to the user s friend regarding the premium movie package. Assume that the user agrees by selecting the YES icon to have the recommendation sent to the friend. The recommendation server may receive the confirmation from user device and the recommendation server may send a message to user device . Assume that the friend using user device is logged into the friend s account with the network service provider. The friend may receive and view a message on the display screen of user device regarding a recommendation to upgrade to the premium movie package. The user of user device may have the option to obtain more information about the premium movie service or may choose not to obtain information about the premium movie service.

As a result a network service provider may be able to enhance the network service provider s revenue and profitability by marketing upgraded services provided by the network service provider to the user by using a trusted source such as a friend of the user.

While the example in is described in terms of the network device providing a recommendation for upgraded services the network device may also recommend new services and or products e.g. movies music games etc. to the friend based on the user having purchased that service and or product. For example the user may have purchased a movie from the network service provider and the recommendation to the friend may recommend that the friend to purchase the movie based on the user having purchased the movie.

User device may include any user device that is capable of communicating with a network e.g. network . For example user device may include a radiotelephone a personal communications system PCS terminal e.g. that may combine a cellular radiotelephone with data processing and data communications capabilities a personal digital assistant PDA e.g. that can include a radiotelephone a pager Internet intranet access etc. a smart phone a laptop a tablet computer a computer or any other type of user device.

User device may include a variety of applications such as for example a social networking application a photo sharing application an e mail application a telephone application a video application a multi media application a music player application a visual voicemail application a contacts application a data organizer application a calendar application an instant messaging application a texting application a web browsing application a blogging application and or other types of applications e.g. a word processing application a spreadsheet application etc. .

Recommendation server may include one or more network devices that determine a recommendation based on information from user profile server and or social networking server .

User profile server may include one or more server devices that store user profile information. User profile information may include demographic information for a user such as a user s age gender residential address and or other demographic information. User profile information may include information about services purchased by the user such as television services telephone services wireless services Internet services and or other types of services provided by a network service provider. User profile information may include information about products and or services purchased by the user such as digital video recorders televisions tablet computers personal computers set top boxes smart phones movies music sports channels movie channels and or other types of products and or services.

Social networking server may include one or more network devices that provide a social networking application that may be used on user device . Social networking server may provide and or interface with a social networking application such as Facebook Foursquare Loopt and or a service related to the social networking application. Social networking server may provide a social networking application that can be used on user device to communicate any media stream such as a video stream an audio stream a textual stream and or any other type or form of content. Social networking server may provide a social networking application that includes services such as games scripts and or messaging services that may be used on device .

Network may include one or more wired and or wireless networks. For example network may include a cellular network a public land mobile network PLMN a second generation 2G network a third generation 3G network a fourth generation 4G network a fifth generation 5G network and or another network. Additionally or alternatively network may include a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a metropolitan network MAN a telephone network e.g. the Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN an ad hoc network a managed IP network a virtual private network VPN an intranet the Internet a fiber optic based network a long term evolution network LTE and or a combination of these or other types of networks.

The quantity of devices and or networks illustrated in is provided for explanatory purposes only. In practice there may be additional devices and or networks fewer devices and or networks different devices and or networks or differently arranged devices and or networks than illustrated in . Also in some implementations one or more of the devices of environment may perform one or more functions described as being performed by another one or more of the devices of environment . Devices of environment may interconnect via wired connections wireless connections or a combination of wired and wireless connections.

As shown in device may include a bus a processor a memory an input component an output component and a communication interface . In other implementations device may contain fewer components additional components different components or differently arranged components than depicted in . Additionally or alternatively one or more components of device may perform one or more tasks described as being performed by one or more other components of device .

Bus may include a path that permits communication among the components of device . Processor may include one or more processors microprocessors or processing logic e.g. a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific integrated circuit ASIC that interprets and executes instructions. Memory may include any type of dynamic storage device that stores information and instructions for execution by processor and or any type of non volatile storage device that stores information for use by processor .

Input component may include a component that permits a user to input information to device such as a keyboard a keypad a button a microphone a switch etc. Output component may include a component that outputs information to the user such as a display a speaker one or more light emitting diodes LEDs etc.

Communication interface may include any transceiver like mechanism that enables device to communicate with other devices and or systems. For example communication interface may include an Ethernet interface an optical interface a coaxial interface a wireless interface or the like.

In another implementation communication interface may include for example a transmitter that may convert baseband signals from processor to radio frequency RF signals and or a receiver that may convert RF signals to baseband signals. Alternatively communication interface may include a transceiver to perform functions of both a transmitter and a receiver of wireless communications e.g. radio frequency infrared visual optics etc. wired communications e.g. conductive wire twisted pair cable coaxial cable transmission line fiber optic cable waveguide etc. or a combination of wireless and wired communications.

Communication interface may connect to an antenna assembly not shown in for transmission and or reception of the RF signals. The antenna assembly may include one or more antennas to transmit and or receive RF signals over the air. The antenna assembly may for example receive RF signals from communication interface and transmit the RF signals over the air and receive RF signals over the air and provide the RF signals to communication interface . In one implementation for example communication interface may communicate with network and or devices connected to network .

As will be described in detail below device may perform certain operations. Device may perform these operations in response to processor executing software instructions e.g. computer program s contained in a computer readable medium such as memory a secondary storage device e.g. hard disk CD ROM etc. or other forms of RAM or ROM. A computer readable medium may be defined as a non transitory memory device. A memory device may include memory space within a single physical storage device or memory space spread across multiple physical storage devices. The software instructions may be read into memory from another computer readable medium or from another device. The software instructions contained in memory may cause processor to perform processes described herein. Alternatively hardwired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement processes described herein. Thus implementations described herein are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software.

In some implementations recommendation server user profile and server may be associated with the same network service provider of services to a user of user device .

Process may include receiving permission to use personal information block . For example recommendation server may send a request to a user of user device requesting permission to use the user s personal information in making recommendations to the friends of the user. The request may be sent to user device via the user s account accessible via a web page an email account and or any other type of account. Alternatively recommendation server may send a message to another user device associated with an employee e.g. a customer service representative of the network service provider. The employee may view the message on the other user device . The message may instruct the employee to communicate e.g. via telephone email instant messaging etc. with the user and request permission from the user to use the user s personal information in making recommendations to the friends of the user. The request may provide the user with options regarding what personal information may be used by recommendation server . In some implementations the user may have the option to select information regarding which types of services may be used by recommendation server . For example the user may permit recommendation server to use information regarding one type of service e.g. telephone service purchased from a network service provider and the user may not permit recommendation server to use information regarding another type of service e.g. television service purchased from the network service provider.

The user may have the option to select from which of the user s social networking applications recommendation server may obtain information regarding the user and or the user s friends. For example the user may decide that recommendation server may only obtain information from a first social networking application and not from a second social networking applications.

The user may have the option to select which of the user s friends may receive recommendation notifications from recommendation server . Alternatively the user may have the option to select which of the user s friends who receive service from the network service provider may not receive notifications from recommendation server .

If the user provides permission to recommendation server to use the personal information the user may send a message including any of the above options selected by the user using user device to recommendation server . Recommendation server may store information relating to the permission provided by the user. Recommendation server may send a request to user profile server that user profile server notify recommendation server when the user s account with the network service provider is in use e.g. the user is logged into the account and or a customer representative who works for the network service provider is accessing the account to determine whether to send a recommendation to the user.

At a later time the user may using user device communicate with recommendation server to change the information relating to the permission provided by the user as described above . For example the user may decide to stop recommendation server from sending recommendations to the user s user device and or a friend s user device . The user may decide not to permit recommendation server from obtaining information from the user s social networking account via social networking server . Additionally or alternatively the user may change which of the user s friend s may receive recommendations from recommendation server . Additionally or alternatively the user may change which types of products and or services may be recommend to the user s friends by recommendation server . Recommendation server may send a message to the user s user device acknowledging the change to the information relating to the permission parameters.

Process may include receiving information that the user s account is in use block . For example a user of user device may log into the user s account associated with the network service provider. The login information may include a user name and password biometric information fingerprint information a unique code and or any other type of login information. The login information may be sent to user profile server and or another network device which may validate the login information. User profile server may store information based on the user s permission to recommendation server to receive the user s personal information described with regard to block to send a message to recommendation server that the user is currently logged into the user s account with the network service provider.

Alternatively an employee e.g. a customer service representative of the network service provider may be using another user device to access account information associated with the user who may be communicating with the employee via telephone instant messaging email and or another communication method. The employee may be using a customer service application on the employee s user device to request access to the user s account. The request to access the user s account may be sent from the employee s user device to user profile server .

User profile server may send a message to recommendation server that an employee of the network service provider is currently accessing information from the user s account.

Process may include obtaining the user s information block . For example recommendation server may obtain information from user profile server and social networking server .

From user profile server recommendation server may obtain information regarding the user. This may include information about the products and or services that the user has purchased from the network service provider. Recommendation server may only obtain the personal information permitted by the user as described in block . The products and or services being used by the user may include television services e.g. cable television service satellite television service digital television service premium movie service premium sports service high definition television service etc telephone services e.g. long distance service international telephone service voicemail service etc. Internet services e.g. DSL service fiber optic service etc. hardware e.g. digital video recorder set top box smart phone etc. and or other types of products and or services.

Based on receiving permission from the user described with regard to block recommendation server may communicate with social networking server . From social networking server recommendation server may obtain personal information such as a list of the user s friends the user s interests e.g. likes dislikes hobbies etc. the friends interests e.g. likes dislikes hobbies etc. and or other personal information.

In one example implementation recommendation server may have an agreement with the provider of social networking server that permits recommendation server to communicate with social networking server via an application programming interface API to receive personal information associated with the user s social networking account associated with social networking server . For example recommendation server may receive a list of the user s friends from the user s social networking account.

In another example implementation recommendation server may receive the user s login information for a social networking account associated with social networking server when the user provides recommendation server permission described with regard to block to use personal information from the social networking account. Recommendation server may log into the user s social networking account and may obtain personal information from the user s social networking account.

Process may include obtaining the friend s information block . For example recommendation server may obtain information about which of the user s friends are customers of the network service provider. Recommendation server may receive a list of the user s friends from the social networking account. Recommendation server may send a query to user profile server to determine whether each of these friends is a customer of the network service provider. If the user s friend is a customer of the network service provider then user profile server may send purchase information about the user friend such as the products and or services that the user s friend has purchased from the network service provider e.g. the user s friend has purchased a basic cable television service from the network service provider . If the user s friend is not a customer of the network service provider then user profile server may send a message to recommendation server that the user s friend is not a customer of the network service provider.

Process may include comparing the user s purchase information with the friend s purchase information block . For example recommendation server may make a recommendation by using the purchase information described with regard to block regarding the products and or services purchased by the user and using purchase information described with regard to block regarding the products and or services purchased by the user s friends . . . .

Recommendation server may use the purchase information to determine which products and or services purchased by the user are upgraded services in comparison to services purchased by the user s friends and vice versa. Recommendation server may determine based on information accessible by recommendation server whether a product or service is an upgraded product or service in comparison to other products and or services.

Additionally recommendation server may use the purchase information to determine which products and or services purchased by the user are not purchased by the user s friend or vice versa. For example the user may have purchased a television service and a telephone service and the friend may have purchased only a television service. Recommendation server may determine that the recommendation may include making a recommendation to the friend to purchase the television service purchased by the user. Alternatively for example the user may have purchased a particular on demand movie and the friend has not purchased that particular on demand movie. Recommendation server may determine that the recommendation may include making a recommendation to the friend to purchase the movie.

If the user purchased upgraded services block user purchased upgraded service then process may include sending recommendation information to the user s friend block . For example recommendation server may send a message to user device that recommendation server would like to send a recommendation for upgraded services to a friend of the user. The user may have the option to permit recommendation server to send the recommendation to the user s friend. If the user selects to permit recommendation server to send the recommendation to the user s friend then recommendation server may receive a message from user device and may send a recommendation message to the friend s user device . The friend s user device may receive the recommendation message via the friend s account with the network service provider an email account or another type of account. Alternatively recommendation server may send the recommendation message to the friend s social networking account using the user s social networking account based on recommendation server s access to the user s social networking account .

The friend may view the recommendation message on the friend s user device and may have an option to obtain more information about the recommendation. For example the recommendation message may be Hi your friend Bob Smith has purchased an upgraded telephone service are you interested in upgrading your telephone service If the friend is interested the friend s user device may send a message to recommendation server that the friend is interested in upgrading the friend s service. Recommendation server may receive the message and send the recommendation to the friend. The recommendation may provide the friend with additional information about the user s current upgraded service such as prices terms of agreement and or other information. If the friend is not interested the friend s user device may send a message to recommendation server that the friend is not interested in upgrading the friend s service.

Alternatively recommendation server may send a message to the customer service representative s user device . The customer service representative may communicate with the user e.g. via telephone email instant messaging etc. whether a recommendation may be sent to the user s friend. The user may notify the customer service representative whether to give permission for recommendation server to communicate with the user s friend via the friend s user device . If the user provides permission the customer service representative may select on the customer service representative s user device a selection that the user has provided permitted a recommendation to be sent to the user s friend.

Upon making the selection the customer service representative s user device sends a message to recommendation server . Recommendation server may send a recommendation message to the friend s user device . The recommendation message may include information that the user recommends to the friend a product and or service purchased by the user. The friend may view the recommendation on the friend s user device . The friend may select an option to obtain more information about the recommendation which results in another message being sent to recommendation server . Recommendation server may receive the other message and send additional information about the upgraded product and or service to the friend s user device .

In some example implementations recommendation server may send recommendations to the user that include a recommendation to purchase a product and or service not currently purchased by the user s friend based on the user having purchased that product and or service.

If the friend purchased upgraded services block friend purchased upgraded service then process may include sending recommendation information to the user block . For example recommendation server may send a message to the user s user device that includes a recommendation to the user based on the friend s upgraded service from the network service provider. For example the message may notify the user that a friend of the user purchased a premium sports package and ask the user whether the user would like to purchase the premium sports package. The user may select an option to obtain more information about the recommendation which results in a message being sent to recommendation server . Recommendation server may receive the message and send additional information e.g. price terms and conditions etc. regarding the upgraded product and or service being purchased by the friend to the user s user device .

Alternatively recommendation server may send a message to the customer service representative s user device . The customer service representative may communicate with the user e.g. via telephone email instant messaging etc. regarding a recommendation for upgraded services based on the products and or services purchased by the friend from the network service provider. The user may choose to receive additional information about the upgraded product or service. If the user chooses to receive additional information the customer service representative s user device may send a request for information regarding the upgrade to recommendation server . Recommendation server may receive the request and may send the additional information regarding the upgrade to the customer service representative s user device and or the user s user device .

In some example implementations recommendation server may send recommendations to the user that include a recommendation to purchase a product and or service not already purchased by the user based on the user s friend having purchased that product and or service.

While a series of blocks has been described with regard to the blocks and or the order of the blocks may be modified in other implementations. Further non dependent blocks may be performed in parallel.

Bob Smith is using user device . Assume that Bob has logged into his ALLCOM account and that Bob has permitted recommendation server to receive information from his ALLCOM account. Assume that ALLCOM provides television Internet and telephone services. Assume that user profile server stores information that indicates that Bob has permitted recommendation server to use Bob s personal information. User profile server may send a message to recommendation server that Bob is currently logged into his ALLCOM account. Recommendation server may send a request to user profile server to send recommendation server Bob s personal information regarding products services purchased by Bob. Assume that recommendation server receives Bob s personal information from user profile server that Bob has purchased a premium television package and a premium Internet service from ALLCOM.

Recommendation server may also obtain personal information identifying Bob s friends from Best Friends Server . Assume that Bob has provided recommendation server permission to log into Bob s social networking account with Best Friends server . Recommendation server may log into Bob s social networking account to receive a list of Bob s friends from Best Friends server . Assume that Bob has two friends Jane Anderson and Stan Jones associated with his Best Friends social networking account. Recommendation server may send a request to user profile server requesting information about Jane and Stan. Assume that user profile server sends a message based on receiving the request to recommendation server that Stan is not a customer of ALLCOM and that Jane is a customer of ALLCOM.

Recommendation server may request user profile server to provide information about what products and or services Jane has purchased from ALLCOM. User profile server may send information regarding the products and or services that Jane has purchased from ALLCOM to recommendation server . Assume that Jane has purchased a premium television package and a standard Internet service from ALLCOM.

Recommendation server may compare the services purchased by Bob to the services purchased by Jane and may determine that Bob purchased an upgraded Internet service relative to the standard Internet service purchased by Jane. Recommendation server may determine that a recommendation can be made to Jane to upgrade the standard Internet service to the premium Internet service based on Bob s purchase of the premium Internet service.

As shown in recommendation server may send a message to user device . Bob may view the message on user device requesting whether Bob would permit a recommendation for the premium Internet service to be sent to his friend Jane. Bob may determine that he would like the recommendation to be sent to Jane. Bob selects the YES option. Upon selecting the YES option user device notifies recommendation server via network . Recommendation server may receive the notification from user device and recommendation server may send a message to user device . Assume that Jane is logged into her ALLCOM account. Jane may view the message from recommendation server on her ALLCOM account via user device . The message may indicate to Jane that Bob has recommended the premium Internet service from ALLCOM. Jane decides that she would like to upgrade her Internet service and is interested in obtaining additional information about the premium Internet service. Jane selects the YES option.

Upon selecting the YES option user device notifies recommendation server via network . Recommendation server may receive the notification from user device and may send information about the premium Internet service purchased by Bob to Jane.

Systems and or methods described herein may permit a network device to send a recommendation to a user to upgrade products and or services that the user has purchased from a network service provider based on the user s friend purchasing upgraded products and or services from the network service provider. As a result the network service provider may increase the network service provider s profitability by up selling existing customers with upgraded services based on personal recommendations from the customer s friends.

The foregoing description of implementations provides illustration and description but is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the implementations to the precise form disclosed. Modifications and variations are possible in light of the above disclosure or may be acquired from practice of the implementations.

It will be apparent that example aspects as described above may be implemented in many different forms of software firmware and hardware in the implementations illustrated in the figures. The actual software code or specialized control hardware used to implement these aspects should not be construed as limiting. Thus the operation and behavior of the aspects were described without reference to the specific software code it being understood that software and control hardware could be designed to implement the aspects based on the description herein.

Even though particular combinations of features are recited in the claims and or disclosed in the specification these combinations are not intended to limit the disclosure of the possible implementations. In fact many of these features may be combined in ways not specifically recited in the claims and or disclosed in the specification. Although each dependent claim listed below may directly depend on only one other claim the disclosure of the possible implementations includes each dependent claim in combination with every other claim in the claim set.

No element act or instruction used in the present application should be construed as critical or essential unless explicitly described as such. Also as used herein the article a is intended to include one or more items and may be used interchangeably with one or more. Where only one item is intended the term one or similar language is used. Further the phrase based on is intended to mean based at least in part on unless explicitly stated otherwise.

In the preceding specification various preferred embodiments have been described with reference to the accompanying drawings. It will however be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereto and additional embodiments may be implemented without departing from the broader scope of the invention as set forth in the claims that follow. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than restrictive sense.

