---

title: Verifying and identifying incoming PBX calls on mobile devices
abstract: Aspects relate to provision of enterprise call capabilities to mobile devices. For example, a mobile device can indicate, over a data channel, that a PBX is to make a call on its behalf to a called party. The PBX can call back the mobile device, call the called party, and bridge those call legs to establish the call. The mobile device can employ mechanisms that a particular incoming call is made by the PBX. These mechanisms can include using ANI information, sending, and receiving audible verification codes over the voice channel established after answering the incoming call. The verification codes can be selected based on different behaviors of the mobile devices and the network or networks used by the device(s).
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08428647&OS=08428647&RS=08428647
owner: Research In Motion Limited
number: 08428647
owner_city: Waterloo
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20120425
---
The present application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 693 306 filed Jan. 25 2010 the contents of which are fully incorporated by reference herein.

The present application relates to voice telephony on mobile devices and in some aspects providing enterprise telephony capabilities on mobile devices.

In many offices desktop wired phones are often connected to a system that provides Private Branch eXchange PBX type services. It is desirable to be able to use mobile devices similarly to such wired phones. Also it would be desirable to be able to implement other usage models directed more particularly to mobile devices. For example tariff structures for mobile devices often differ from those of wired telephony. Also a mobile device as it moves from geography to geography may have different capabilities. For example in some areas the device may have both voice and data channels available while in other circumstances a data channel may be unavailable. In some networks Caller ID or Automatic Number Identification ANI information may be unavailable or not reliably available.

In general the present application relates to the control and management of communications. In one exemplary aspect the present application relates to a telephony method for implementation on a mobile device. The telephony method comprises receiving an incoming voice call over a voice channel on the mobile device. The incoming voice call may be from a PBX or more generally a platform providing enterprise communication capabilities to mobile devices . The method includes answering the voice call and sending from the mobile device a verification code comprising a series of audible tones when identifying information for the voice call being received is unavailable to the mobile device. The method allows the voice call to proceed responsive to receiving at the mobile device a verification code over the voice channel within a time limit. The method can be employed for example where the mobile device has signaled to a PBX that it wants the PBX to make a call on its behalf. The PBX can make the call and when the called party has accepted the call the PBX can call the mobile device and bridge both call legs establishing the call. These example is by way of explanation rather than limitation.

Although reference may be made to calls in the description of example embodiments below it will be appreciated that the described systems and methods are applicable to session based communications in general and not limited to voice calls. Other aspects of the present application will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art from a review of the following detailed description in conjunction with the drawings. Embodiments of the present application are not limited to any particular operating system mobile device architecture server architecture or computer programming language.

Reference is now made to which shows in block diagram form an example system generally designated for the control and management of communications. The system includes an enterprise or business system which in many embodiments includes a local area network LAN . In the description below the enterprise or business system may be referred to as an enterprise network . It will be appreciated that the enterprise network may include more than one network and may be located in multiple geographic areas in some embodiments.

The enterprise network may be connected often through a firewall to a wide area network WAN such as the Internet. The enterprise network may also be connected to a public switched telephone network PSTN via direct inward dialing DID trunks or primary rate interface PRI trunks.

The enterprise network may also communicate with a public land mobile network PLMN which may also be referred to as a wireless wide area network WWAN or in some cases a cellular network. The connection with the PLMN may be made via a relay as known in the art.

The enterprise network may also provide a wireless local area network WLAN featuring wireless access points. Other WLANs may exist outside the enterprise network . For example WLAN may be connected to WAN .

The system may include a number of enterprise associated mobile devices only one shown . The mobile devices may include devices equipped for cellular communication through the PLMN mobile devices equipped for Wi Fi communications over one of the WLANs or dual mode devices capable of both cellular and WLAN communications. WLANs may be configured in accordance with one of the IEEE 802.11 specifications.

It will be understood that the mobile devices include one or more radio transceivers and associated processing hardware and software to enable wireless communications with the PLMN and or one of the WLANs . In various embodiments the PLMN and mobile devices may be configured to operate in compliance with any one or more of a number of wireless protocols including GSM GPRS CDMA EDGE UMTS EvDO HSPA 3GPP or a variety of others. It will be appreciated that the mobile device may roam within the PLMN and across PLMNs in known manner as the user moves. In some instances the dual mode mobile devices and or the enterprise network are configured to facilitate roaming between the PLMN and a WLAN and are thus capable of seamlessly transferring sessions such as voice calls from a connection with the cellular interface of the dual mode device to the WLAN interface of the dual mode device and vice versa.

The enterprise network typically includes a number of networked servers computers and other devices. For example the enterprise network may connect one or more desktop or laptop computers one shown . The connection may be wired or wireless in some embodiments. The enterprise network may also connect to one or more digital telephone sets one shown .

The enterprise network may include one or more mail servers such as mail server for coordinating the transmission storage and receipt of electronic messages for client devices operating within the enterprise network . Typical mail servers include the Microsoft Exchange Server and the IBM Lotus Domino server. Each user within the enterprise typically has at least one user account within the enterprise network . Associated with each user account is message address information such as an e mail address. Messages addressed to a user message address are stored on the enterprise network in the mail server . The messages may be retrieved by the user using a messaging application such as an e mail client application. The messaging application may be operating on a user s computer connected to the enterprise network within the enterprise. In some embodiments the user may be permitted to access stored messages using a remote computer for example at another location via the WAN using a VPN connection. Using the messaging application the user may also compose and send messages addressed to others within or outside the enterprise network . The messaging application causes the mail server to send a composed message to the addressee often via the WAN .

The relay serves to route messages received over the PLMN from the mobile device to the corresponding enterprise network . The relay also pushes messages from the enterprise network to the mobile device via the PLMN .

The enterprise network also includes an enterprise server . Together with the relay the enterprise server functions to redirect or relay incoming e mail messages addressed to a user s e mail address within the enterprise network to the user s mobile device and to relay incoming e mail messages composed and sent via the mobile device out to the intended recipients within the WAN or elsewhere. The enterprise server and relay together facilitate push e mail service for the mobile device enabling the user to send and receive e mail messages using the mobile device as though the user were connected to an e mail client within the enterprise network using the user s enterprise related e mail address for example on computer .

As is typical in many enterprises the enterprise network includes a Private Branch eXchange although in various embodiments the PBX may be a standard PBX or an IP PBX for simplicity the description below uses the term PBX to refer to both having a connection with the PSTN for routing incoming and outgoing voice calls for the enterprise. The PBX is connected to the PSTN via DID trunks or PRI trunks for example. The PBX may use ISDN signaling protocols for setting up and tearing down circuit switched connections through the PSTN and related signaling and communications. In some embodiments the PBX may be connected to one or more conventional analog telephones . The PBX is also connected to the enterprise network and through it to telephone terminal devices such as digital telephone sets softphones operating on computers etc. Within the enterprise each individual may have an associated extension number sometimes referred to as a PNP private numbering plan or direct dial phone number. Calls outgoing from the PBX to the PSTN or incoming from the PSTN to the PBX are typically circuit switched calls. Within the enterprise e.g. between the PBX and terminal devices voice calls are often packet switched calls for example Voice over IP VoIP calls.

The enterprise network may further include a Service Management Platform SMP for performing some aspects of messaging or session control like call control and advanced call processing features. The SMP may in some cases also perform some media handling. Collectively the SMP and PBX may be referred to as the enterprise communications platform server generally designated . It will be appreciated that the enterprise communications platform and in particular the SMP is implemented on one or more servers having suitable communications interfaces for connecting to and communicating with the PBX and or DID PRI trunks. Although the SMP may be implemented on a stand alone server it will be appreciated that it may be implemented into an existing control agent server as a logical software component. As will be described below the SMP may be implemented as a multi layer platform.

The enterprise communications platform implements the switching to connect session legs and may provide the conversion between for example a circuit switched call and a VoIP call or to connect legs of other media sessions. In some embodiments in the context of voice calls the enterprise communications platform provides a number of additional functions including automated attendant interactive voice response call forwarding voice mail etc. It may also implement certain usage restrictions on enterprise users such as blocking international calls or 1 900 calls. In many embodiments Session Initiation Protocol SIP may be used to set up manage and terminate media sessions for voice calls. Other protocols may also be employed by the enterprise communications platform for example Web Services Computer Telephony Integration CTI protocol Session Initiation Protocol for Instant Messaging and Presence Leveraging Extensions SIMPLE and various custom Application Programming Interfaces APIs as will be described in greater detail below.

One of the functions of the enterprise communications platform is to extend the features of enterprise telephony to the mobile devices . For example the enterprise communications platform may allow the mobile device to perform functions akin to those normally available on a standard office telephone such as the digital telephone set or analog telephone set . Example features may include direct extension dialing enterprise voice mail conferencing call transfer call park etc.

Reference is now made to which show example embodiments of the enterprise communications system . Again although references are made below to calls or call centric features it will be appreciated that the architectures and systems depicted and described are applicable to session based communications in general and in some instances to messaging based communications.

In this embodiment the SMP assumes control over both call processing and the media itself. This architecture may be referred to as First Party Call Control . Many of the media handling functions normally implemented by the PBX are handled by the SMP in this architecture. Incoming calls addressed to any extension or direct dial number within the enterprise for example are always first routed to the SMP . Thereafter a call leg is established from the SMP to the called party within the enterprise and the two legs are bridged. Accordingly the SMP includes a digital trunk interface and a digital signal processing DSP conferencing bridge . The DSP conferencing bridge performs the bridging of calls for implementation of various call features such as conferencing call transfer etc. The digital trunk interface may be implemented as a plurality of telephonic cards e.g. Intel Dialogic cards interconnected by a bus and operating under the control of a processor. The digital trunk interface may also be partly implemented using a processor module such as for example a Host Media Processing HMP processor.

The SMP may include various scripts for managing call processing. The scripts are implemented as software modules routines functions etc. stored in non volatile memory and executed by the processor of the SMP . The scripts may implement call flow logic business logic user preferences call service processes and various feature applications.

The call control server is coupled to the PBX for example through the LAN enabling packet based communications and more specifically IP based communications. In one embodiment communications between the PBX and the call control server are carried out in accordance with SIP. In other words the call control server uses SIP based communications to manage the set up tear down and control of media handled by the PBX . In one example embodiment the call control server may employ a communications protocol conforming to the ECMA 269 or ECMA 323 standards for Computer Supported Telecommunications Applications CSTA .

The SIP server interacts with the media server using SIP based media handling commands. For example the SIP server and media server may communicate using Media Server Markup Language MSML as defined in IETF document Saleem A. Media Server Markup Language Internet Draft draft saleem msml 07 Aug. 7 2008. The media server may be configured to perform Host Media Processing HMP .

Other architectures or configurations for the enterprise communications system will be appreciated by those ordinarily skilled in the art.

Reference is now made to which shows another embodiment of the enterprise communications system with a Third Party Call Control architecture. In this embodiment the SMP is a multi layer platform that includes a protocol layer a services layer and an application layer . The protocol layer includes a plurality of interface protocols configured for enabling operation of corresponding applications in the application layer . The services layer includes a plurality of services that can be leveraged by the interface protocols to create richer applications. Finally the application layer includes a plurality of applications that are exposed out to the communication devices and that leverage corresponding ones of the services and interface protocols for enabling the applications.

Specifically the protocol layer preferably includes protocols which allow media to be controlled separate from data. For example the protocol layer can include among other things a Session Initiation Protocol or SIP a Web Services protocol an Application Programming Interface or API a Computer Telephony Integration protocol or CTI and a Session Initiation Protocol for Instant Messaging and Presence Leveraging Extensions or SIMPLE protocol . It is contemplated that the interface protocols are plug ins that can interface directly with corresponding servers in the enterprise network which will be further described below.

For the purposes of this disclosure SIP will be utilized although it is appreciated that the system can operate using the above disclosed or additional protocols. As known by those of ordinary skill in the art SIP is the IETF Internet Engineering Task Force standard for multimedia session management and more specifically is an application layer control protocol for establishing maintaining modifying and terminating multimedia sessions between two or more endpoints. As further known by those of ordinary skill in the art the SIP protocol includes two interfaces for signaling SIP Trunk hereinafter referred to as SIP T and SIP Line hereinafter referred to as SIP L . Specifically the SIP T interface is utilized when the endpoint is a non specific entity or not registered i.e. when communicating between two network entities . In contrast the SIP L interface is utilized when the endpoint is registered i.e. when dialing to a specific extension . The specific operation of the system utilizing SIP will be described in further detail below.

The SMP also includes a plurality of enablers among other things a VoIP enabler a Fixed Mobile Convergence or FMC enabler a conference services enabler a presence enabler and an Instant Messaging or IM enabler . Each of the enablers are used by corresponding services in the services layer that combine one or more of the enablers. Each of the applications in the application layer is then combined with one or more of the services to perform the desired application. For example a phone call service may use the VoIP or PBX enabler and an emergency response application may use the phone call service an Instant Messenger service a video call service and email service and or a conference service.

The application layer may include a conference services application that together with the conference services enabler enables multiple communication devices including desk telephones and personal computers to participate in a conference call through use of a centralized conference server . As seen in the conference server is provided in the enterprise network and is in communication with the conference services enabler preferably through the SIP protocol although it is recognized that additional protocols that control media separate from data may be appropriate such as the Web Services protocol or the CTI protocol . As will be described in further detail below the conference call server is configured for directing media and data streams to and from one or more communication devices i.e. mobile devices telephones and computers .

Turning now to the general operation of the system using SIP as the signaling protocol will be discussed although it is recognized that the present system is not limited to the processes discussed herein. The signaling descriptions that follow are based on Third Party Call Control architecture such as that illustrated in or . It will be appreciated that similar but slightly modified signaling may be used in a First Party Call Control architecture wherein the PBX will pass media through to the SMP for direct media handling by the SMP . Variations in the signaling to adapt to various architectures will be appreciated by those ordinarily skilled in the art.

The SMP then sets up the outgoing call leg to the destination. It does this by sending an invite over SIP L to the PBX with the destination number of the target phone block . SIP L is used so that the call can be correctly attributed to the individual within the organization within any call records that are being maintained by the PBX . When the invite is received the PBX dials the destination number to the target phone block and the target phone answers the call block . When the target phone is answered the PBX sends a 200 OK signal to the SMP indicating that the target phone is ready to receive data block . The SMP then sends an invite over SIP T to the PBX and shuffles the SDP Session Description Protocol as known to those of ordinary skill in the art to connect the call legs block . When the call legs are connected the PBX sends a second 200 OK signal to the SMP block and the users of the device and target phone can communicate with each other.

Note that between the cellular call leg being established and the outgoing call leg being answered the mobile user hears ringing tones. These ringing tones may be provided by the PBX using the presentation of early media from the outgoing call leg or they may be generated locally on the device if early media is not available. In the latter case it is desirable to localize the ringing tone to match the tone normally heard with a call through the PBX .

The above description is known as a mobile initiated call because the SMP provides the mobile device with the DNIS number into which the mobile device has called. Alternatively the mobile originated call could be PBX initiated as shown in . Specifically in a PBX initiated call upon receipt of the mobile originated call request block the SMP confirms receipt of the call to the mobile device with an ANI number block which the mobile device uses to identify the incoming call from the PBX . The SMP then sends an invite over SIP T to the PBX with the cellular number of the device and the ANI number that is attached to the outgoing call block . Upon receipt of the invite the PBX makes a cellular call to the device block which is answered by the device block . The device checks the ANI number in the incoming call to confirm if the number is actually from the PBX . If the ANI number is stripped for any particular reason then the device may be configured to answer the call as a regular cellular call or it may reject the call as unknown. When the device answers the PBX initiated call the PBX sends a 200 OK signal to the SMP indicating that the call leg to the device is established block .

In response the SMP sends an invite over SIP L with the destination number of the target phone to the PBX block . When the invite is received at the PBX the PBX dials the destination number to the target phone block the target phone picks up the call block and a 200 OK signal is sent from the PBX to the SMP block indicating that the target phone is also ready to receive data. In response to the 200 OK the SMP sends an invite to the PBX shuffling the SDP to connect the call legs block . Finally when the call legs are connected the PBX sends a second 200 OK signal to the SMP and the users of the device and target phone are able to communicate with each other.

In both instances the SMP is performing third party call control of the two call legs the PBX remaining in control of the call. The decision of whether to proceed with a mobile initiated call or a PBX initiated call can be set by policy. Specifically the option to select either mobile initiated or PBX initiated calls is a feature provided in the SMP and an administrator for the enterprise network can determine which setting to use. For example in some cases it may be more cost effective for the corporation to utilize PBX initiated calls rather than mobile initiated calls and vice versa. However it is appreciated that the system is not limited to the above processes.

In response to the invite the SMP sends a call request with the DNIS number and source details to the device block which is confirmed to the SMP block . In addition to confirming the call the mobile device sends a cellular call to the DNIS number at the PBX block . Again as the DNIS number is routed in the dialing plans to the SMP upon receipt of the cellular call the PBX sends an invite over SIP T to the SMP with the DNIS number block . In response to the invite a 200 OK signal is sent over SIP T from the SMP to the PBX acknowledging that the call leg to the mobile device is established block . Finally the initial invite block is acknowledged with the 200 OK signal with the cellular SDP at which point the call legs are joined and the target phone and device can communicate with each other on the call.

The diagram shown in illustrates a mobile initiated call because as discussed above with respect to the SMP presents the mobile device with the DNIS number at the PBX into which to call. However it is also possible to employ a PBX initiated mobile terminated call as shown in where the PBX sends an incoming call to the device with the ANI number of the target phone .

Specifically similar to the mobile initiated call described above and shown in the target phone sends an incoming call to the destination number of the device which is received at the PBX block . Upon receipt of the call the PBX sends an invite over SIP L to the SMP block with the source number of the target phone . In response to the invite the SMP sends a call request with the source number to the device block with the ANI number the device should expect in the incoming call the call request being confirmed by the device block . At this point in the PBX initiated call the SMP sends an invite over SIP T to the PBX with the cellular number and ANI number to use block prompting the PBX to make a cellular call to the device with the ANI number block prompting the device to ring. The device answers the call block and a 200 OK signal is sent from the PBX to the SMP acknowledging that the cellular call leg to the device is established block . In response a 200 OK signal is also sent from the SMP to the PBX acknowledging that the call leg to the target phone is also established block . The SMP shuffles the SDP to connect the call legs the call legs are joined and the target phone and device can communicate with each other on the call.

As discussed above with respect to the SMP typically remains in control of the signaling between the target phone and the mobile device in both the mobile initiated and PBX initiated calls. Again the decision to proceed with a mobile initiated call or a PBX initiated call is based on policy and may be set by a system administrator. In some cases it may be more efficient or cost effective for the administrator to decide that PBX initiated calls should be used and in other cases it may be more efficient or cost effective for mobile initiated calls to be utilized. As these policy decisions may vary by organization and are not imperative to the scope of the present application they will not be discussed in further detail.

Processing module communicates with mass storage which can be composed of a Random Access Memory and of non volatile memory . Non volatile memory can be implemented with one or more of Flash memory PROM EPROM and so on. Non volatile memory can be implemented as flash memory ferromagnetic phase change memory and other non volatile memory technologies. Non volatile memory also can store programs device state various user information one or more operating systems device configuration data and other data that may need to be accessed persistently.

User input interface can comprise a plurality of different sources of user input such as a camera a keyboard a touchscreen and a microphone which can provide input to speech recognition functionality . Processing module also can receive input from a GPS receiver which processes signals received from antenna . Processing module also can use a variety of network communication protocols grouped for description purposes here into a communication module which can include a Bluetooth communication stack which comprises a L2CAP layer a baseband and a radio . Communications module also can comprise a Wireless Local Area Network interface which comprises a link layer with a MAC and a radio . Communications module also can comprise a cellular broadband data network interface which in turn comprises a link layer with MAC . Cellular interface also can comprise a radio for an appropriate frequency spectrum . Communications module also can comprise a USB interface to provide wired data communication capability. Other wireless and wired communication technologies also can be provided and this description is exemplary.

Referring to there is depicted an example of mobile device . Mobile device comprises a display and a cursor or view positioning device here depicted as a trackball which may serve as another input member and is both rotational to provide selection inputs and can also be pressed in a direction generally toward housing to provide another selection input. Trackball permits multi directional positioning of a selection cursor such that the selection cursor can be moved in an upward direction in a downward direction and if desired and or permitted in any diagonal direction. The trackball is in this example situated on a front face not separately numbered of a housing to enable a user to maneuver the trackball while holding mobile device in one hand.

The mobile device in also comprises a programmable convenience button to activate a selected application such as for example a calendar or calculator. Further mobile device can include an escape or cancel button a menu or option button and a keyboard . Menu or option button loads a menu or list of options on display when pressed. In this example the escape or cancel button menu option button and keyboard are disposed on the front face of the mobile device housing while the convenience button is disposed at the side of the housing. This button placement enables a user to operate these buttons while holding mobile device in one hand. The keyboard is in this example a standard QWERTY keyboard.

The example of device also depicts a speech coder which receives input from a microphone and a tone synthesizer module . Speech coder and tone synthesizer module both can provide inputs to a voice channel processing layer . Both data channel processing layer and voice channel processing layer can send and receive data to and from transport protocol s layer which in turn communicates with MAC PHY .

The example methods of can be best understood in view of the usage models implied by the signaling diagrams shown in B and A and B. These signaling diagrams depict that an enterprise communications platform can be involved in establishing calls involving mobile device . Such call establishment can include for example that the enterprise communications platform can establish a voice call from PBX to a called party device on behalf of device . Such call establishment also can include that PBX can be made to call device for establishing such voice calls. These example methods thus relate to approaching to verifying whether a call incoming to device is from enterprise communications platform or not.

By particular example if device indicates to the enterprise communications platform that the platform should call it in order to establish a call with a called party then there will be a delay between when device signals platform and when the call from platform arrives at device . During that timeframe device may receive a call from an entirely different party e.g. a call from a friend . Such calls should not disrupt the setup of the call already in progress. These methods also provide for handling situations where caller ID or Automatic Number Identification ANI information is not available to device for an incoming call. These methods depict a variety of steps and logical decision points. Based on these examples persons of ordinary skill in the art may provide equivalent formulations that have a different set of or a ordering of logical decision points to arrive at the same or similar result.

Now turning to an example relating to device signalling platform to place a call is depicted and described. relates generally to the signaling diagram of as explained below. Device can send an indication to platform to establish an outgoing call for it over the data channel corresponding to signaling . Device waits for confirmation signaling and if such confirmation is not received e.g. not within a prescribed time limit then the call fails . If there is reception of the confirmation then device waits for a callback e.g. call for Y seconds if there is no callback within the prescribed time limit such as for example 30 seconds then the call fails . Such wait time can be adjusted based on observed behavior and other sources of empirical data about how networks used a given device behave as well as behavior of a given device or class of devices. Such wait periods also can be adjusted based on user preferences.

If there is a callback then device attempts to obtain or otherwise sample any available ANI information for that call. If the ANI information obtained if any matches ANI information expected e.g. based on configuration information provided with the mobile device such as one or more telephone numbers or received with the confirmation then the call is answered and a verification code is sent after a waiting period . Thereafter the call can proceed e.g. the microphone and speaker of device can be activated thereby allowing a user to send and receive voice information .

However if there was no ANI information with the callback the call can still be answered and the verification code provided separating depicted as step . Device waits example maximum wait time of 3.5 seconds to receive over the voice channel established by answering the callback a verification code. If no verification code is received within the time limit or an incorrect verification code is received then the call is rejected . If a valid verification code is received then the call is allowed to proceed .

The wait time after the callback is answered can be about 300 milliseconds for GSM devices and about 1 second for CDMA devices. The wait time is additional time provided for allowing the voice channel to be ready to transmit and or receive tones composing the verification code. These times can be adjusted based on observed empirically determined delays in networks used by a given device or a given collection of devices. These times also can be adjusted based on delays observed for different kinds and models of devices that may be used. Such delays can be constant among devices or they can be made device specific. As such the delay timing here is provided as an example.

In preferred examples the verification code comprises a sequence of Dual Tone MultiFrequency DTMF tones. In one preferred example the verification code comprises any of the tones formed by combining a 1633 Hz tone with tones of frequencies 697 770 852 or 941 Hz which respectively are tones A B C and D on a full 16 digit DTMF keypad . Where such A B C or D tones are not supported by a given device or network for example some CDMA networks may not support such tones then other DTMF tones can be used such as those tones associated with the digits 0 9 on a normal touch tone keypad.

If there was no notification received and the ANI did not match what was expected and the mismatch results from an empty ANI ANI was not obtained and did not match then the call can be shown as an unknown cell call initiated through the enterprise platform and a verification code is sent after a waiting period. Subsequently if responsive valid verification code is received the UI can be switched to show an enterprise call and the call can proceed . If the verification code is not received or is invalid then the UI can be shown as a regular cell call and the user can be provided an opportunity to answer or ignore the call .

If the ANI did not match and yet was not empty i.e. ANI information was captured for the call but did not match ANI expected for an enterprise call then the call can be displayed as a cell phone or a call other than an enterprise call and a verification code will not be sent upon answering the call. As such in this part of the method depicted in there is enough information known about the call to determine that it is not an enterprise call and the call can instead be treated similarly to a regular incoming call.

In the foregoing separate boxes or illustrated separation of functional elements of illustrated systems does not necessarily require physical separation of such functions as communications between such elements can occur by way of messaging function calls shared memory space and so on without any such physical separation. As such functions need not be implemented in physically or logically separated platforms although they are illustrated separately for ease of explanation herein.

For example different embodiments of devices can provide some functions in an operating system installation that are provided at an application layer or in a middle layer in other devices. Different devices can have different designs such that while some devices implement some functions in fixed function hardware other devices can implement such functions in a programmable processor with code obtained from a computer readable medium.

Further some aspects may be disclosed with respect to only certain examples. However such disclosures are not to be implied as requiring that such aspects be used only in embodiments according to such examples. Variables X and Y were used to indicate time delays. Where such variables are used empirically determined timings can be used. Reuse of the variable X does not necessarily imply that the time associated with each usage of that variable is the same.

The above description occasionally describes relative timing of events signals actions and the like as occurring when another event signal action or the like happens. Such description is not to be construed as requiring a concurrency or any absolute timing unless otherwise indicated.

Certain adaptations and modifications of the described embodiments can be made. Aspects that can be applied to various embodiments may have been described with respect to only a portion of those embodiments for sake of clarity. However it is to be understood that these aspects can be provided in or applied to other embodiments as well. Therefore the above discussed embodiments are considered to be illustrative and not restrictive.

