---

title: Broadband electromagnetic band-gap (EBG) structure
abstract: An electromagnetic bandgap structure comprising a progressive cascade of a plurality of patterns of cells. The cells of each pattern are dimensioned so that each pattern has a reflection phase response centered at a different, but closely-spaced, frequency compared with the reflection phase response of an adjacently positioned pattern, so that the combined reflection phase response of the plurality of patterns provides a continuous wideband operational range.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09407011&OS=09407011&RS=09407011
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 09407011
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121213
---
This application claims benefit of U.S. provisional patent application Ser. No. 61 601 584 filed Feb. 22 2012 which is herein incorporated by reference.

Embodiments of the present invention generally relate to electromagnetic band gap EBG structures and more particularly to EBG structures having a progressive cascade of patterns of EBG cells which progressive cascade of patterns result in a continuous wideband operational phase response for the EBG structures as well as antennas using such wideband EBG structures.

Electromagnetic band gap EBG structures are periodic structures that have special properties such as high surface impedance. Accordingly a ground plane having EBG structures formed thereon can act as a close to perfect magnetic conducting structure and therefore suppress the formation of surface waves. The reflection phase is important when EBG structures are used for designing an antenna because of the known consequence that the efficiency of the antenna is affected by destructive interference of the wave reflected from the ground plane with the wave directly radiated from the antenna. A conventional solution to this problem is to provide the antenna at a specified distance from the electric ground plane that is at one quarter wavelength of the center frequency so that the reflected wave and the radiated wave constructively combine along the boresight of the antenna. Using a magnetic ground plane having EBG structures formed thereon in combination with an antenna is known so as to take advantage of the EBG characteristic of high impedance and thereby allowing the construction of low profile antennas. The reflection phase of such EBG structures when used in an antenna embodiment is such that it results in the constructive addition of the incident and reflected waves thereby reducing backward radiation and enhancing forward radiation. Although EBG structures have been known in microwave design for more than two decades and are known to provide advantages due to their compact size and low loss when integrated into an antenna design EBG structures typically work over a narrow frequency band which makes them not practical for use with broadband antennas. The word size as used herein is not limited to a measure of physical characteristics but also includes a measure of electrical characteristics.

It would be desirable to provide an electromagnetic band gap structure having a phase response suitable for use with a broadband antenna that is having an ultra wideband UWB operational phase response which is greater than for example 500 MHz.

Methods and apparatus for providing a broadband electromagnetic band gap EBG structure are provided herein. In some embodiments an apparatus for providing a broadband EBG structure includes a progressive cascade of patterns of EBG cells each pattern having a resonance at a different but closely spaced frequency compared with an adjacently positioned pattern. In some embodiments this is accomplished by using one of either a concentric arrangement or a symmetric parallel arrangement of patterns of EBG cells each pattern having a basic cell size which size progressively changes the further the pattern is positioned from a central point of the EBG structure so as to cause a progressive change in resonance for adjacently positioned patterns. The combined effect of this progressive cascade arrangement is a continuous ultra wide operational bandwidth for the EBG structure. In some embodiments the progressive cascade of patterns are provided as a single level structure and in other embodiments each pattern is provided on a different level. These and further embodiments of the present invention are described below.

To facilitate understanding identical reference numerals have been used where possible to designate identical elements that are common to the figures. The figures are not drawn to scale and may be simplified for clarity. It is contemplated that elements and features of one embodiment may be beneficially incorporated in other embodiments without further recitation.

The present invention describes embodiments for a broadband electromagnetic bandgap EBG structure and use of that structure in an antenna application. The invention derives from a progressive cascade of patterns of EBG structures each pattern having a progressively increasing resonant frequency so that the combined effect of the cascade structure provides a continuous ultra wide broadband phase response. The new structure is validated by using it in combination with a broadband antenna and comparing the performance of the antenna with a uniform EBG ground plan structure and then with a broadband EBG ground plane structure having a progressive cascade of patterns as described herein.

Mushroom like EBG structures have parallel LC resonators such as shown in which illustrate top and side views respectively of a 2 2 patch mushroom EBG structure of a type useful for forming some embodiments of the invention. The structure includes a periodic conductive pattern of patches centered over metallized vias having a diameter 2r formed in a dielectric board having a thickness t . Each patch and via comprise one EBG cell. The patches are illustrated in this embodiment as squares having a uniform side dimension w which are separated by a gap distance g . The inductance L of the resonator is represented by the metallized vias and the capacitance C is represented by the gap g between the patches . At the resonant frequency of the EBG structure the surface impedance goes to infinity and thus acts like a perfect magnetic conductor PMC . When the surface is used as the ground plane for an antenna this effect causes the wave reflected from the ground plan surface to be in phase and therefore constructively add with the direct wave radiated from the antenna. The result is an up to 3 DB improvement in antenna performance as compared with the antenna in a free space environment and an even more significant improvement relative to an antenna over a ground plane surface that acts like a perfect electric conductor PEC . A PEG ground plane surface provides an out of phase reflection that is 180 from its surface that destructively interferes with the direct wave radiated from the antenna. Although the reflection off of a PEG becomes coherent with the antenna radiation if the antenna is placed a quarter wavelength above the PEC placing the antenna a quarter wavelength above the PEC results in an undesirable increase in height for the antenna arrangement.

The surface impedance of the mushroom EBG structure is calculated as shown in equation 1 while the inductance and capacitance of the EBG structure are calculated as shown in equations 3 and 4. The band gap of an EBG structure is defined as the frequency band where they reflection phase is within the 90 to 90 range.

It has been found that three or four different patterns of individual cell size are needed in the EBG structure to achieve the wide bandwidth phase performance desired in an antenna arrangement. This condition although not mandatory is satisfied in .

In accordance with embodiments of the invention in order to provide a phase response commensurate with that provided by a uniform EBG configuration but over a continuous wide frequency band such as an ultra wideband of greater than 500 MHz for example a cascade of a plurality of uniform EBG patterns are described herein. Each pattern comprises an array of cell structures having a basic size. The size of the cells of each pattern progressively changes the further the pattern is positioned from a central point of the EBG structure so as to cause a progressive change in resonance for adjacently positioned patterns. The combined effect of this progressively changing cascade arrangement is a continuous ultra wide operational bandwidth for the EBG structure. Hereinafter this arrangement is referred to as a progressive cascade EBG structure. The progressive EBG structure results in a continuous band gap that is much wider compared to the band gap width of a uniform EBG structure as evidenced by the reflection phase response comparison shown in . The progressive cascade of EBG structures shown in the embodiments herein have three concentric or symmetric parallel positioned uniform EBG structures which resonate at 12 GHz 15 GHz and 18 GHz respectively although a different number of progressive uniform EBG patterns can be used and a different range and spacing of their resonant frequency can be used.

It should be noted that when surface elements with center pins form the mushroom like structure of the unit cell the center pin provides the required inductance as given in equation 4. In an alternative embodiment instead of the center pins providing the required inductance there can be no pins and the inductance can be provided by a differently shaped surface element such as a split ring elliptical or even star shape. A benefit of having no center pin is lower manufacturing cost and higher yield.

An EBG structure in accordance with the invention can be used to form low profile antenna that is one where the antenna is placed a distance substantially less than one quarter wavelength above the top surface of the EBG structure and preferably less than about one tenth of a wavelength. A thin layer of dielectric material deposited over the EBG structure can be used for supporting the antenna. The choice of the concentric versus parallel cascade configuration depends on the type of antenna that is to be placed on the top of the EBG structure. For example with the arrangement shown in a dipole antenna or log periodic would be appropriate. The dipole antenna can be fed at its center.

While the foregoing is directed to illustrated embodiments of the present invention other and further embodiments of the invention may be devised without departing from the basic scope thereof. For example other embodiments may contain different surface element shapes and sizes for the individual cells surface elements that are tightly coupled to each other and surface element without corresponding center pins or vies the inductance instead being provided by the shape of the surface element some of which were noted above with respect to .

