---

title: Live television playback optimizations
abstract: In embodiments of live television playback optimizations, streaming video content is received for distribution to a client device that is implemented to playback a video content stream for display. The video content stream is associated with a content manifest file that identifies video segments of the video content stream. An input can be received from the client device to switch from the video content stream to a new video content stream, and video segments of the new video content stream are buffered. A new content manifest file that correlates to the buffered video segments of the new video content stream is generated. The new content manifest file can then be published to the client device to indicate that a minimum of buffered video segments have been buffered for distribution to the client device before the minimum of buffered video segments have been buffered.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08892763&OS=08892763&RS=08892763
owner: Motorola Mobility LLC
number: 08892763
owner_city: Libertyville
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120103
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application 61 429 880 filed on Jan. 5 2011 the disclosure of which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

The traditional notion of watching television at home has evolved into many different forms of viewing television content on many different devices. For example users can watch television content such as live television recorded television and time shifted programs and movies on various devices such as televisions display devices entertainment devices computers and even mobile devices such as tablets and mobile phones. However television content that is viewed on a mobile device such as a tablet or mobile phone is primarily content that is either stored on the device or already recorded content that can be streamed to the device without interruption. There are challenges to streaming live television for viewing on a client device such as the inherent latencies when a user changes channels and has to wait until video data for a new channel are acquired processed and buffered to begin playback on the client device. Most television viewers have an expectation of instant channel changes and are not accustomed to the delays that are inherent with live television viewing on client devices.

Streaming video content is received for distribution to a client device that is implemented to playback a video content stream for display. The video content stream is associated with a content manifest file that identifies video segments of the video content stream. An input can be received from the client device to switch from the video content stream to a new video content stream and video segments of the new video content stream are buffered. A new content manifest file that correlates to the buffered video segments of the new video content stream is generated. The new content manifest file can then be published to the client device to indicate that a minimum of buffered video segments have been buffered for distribution to the client device before the minimum of buffered video segments have been buffered.

Live television playback optimizations can be implemented for a better user experience when changing television channels on a client device such as streaming live television from a media streamer to the client device via a router in a home or business environment. Responsive to a channel change input the media streamer initiates a tuner being tuned and the transport for a selected television program is acquired decrypted transcoded segmented and encrypted for streaming the video content to the client device. The media streamer is implemented to reduce or eliminate latencies associated with the television channel change input received from the client device such as a mobile phone tablet device or computer device. In implementations live television can be streamed to a client device utilizing HTTP Live Streaming or other techniques that may be implemented to stream live television and other video content over HTTP. For example Dynamic Adaptive Streaming over HTTP may be utilized for streaming content to a client device and embodiments of live television playback optimizations can be implemented accordingly.

While features and concepts of live television playback optimizations can be implemented in any number of different devices systems networks or configurations embodiments of live television playback optimizations are described in the context of the following example devices systems and methods.

The content distributor includes video content servers to distribute video content to the media streamer such as streaming live television that is distributed via a coaxial cable system. The streaming video content can include any type of audio video or image data in the form of television programming movies on demand video interactive games advertisements and the like. The content distributor can be implemented with various components such as a processor and memory devices as well as with any combination of differing components as further described with reference to the example electronic device shown in . For example the content distributor includes storage media such as any type of memory or suitable electronic data storage to store or otherwise maintain the video content and other data.

The media streamer receives the streaming video content from the content distributor and an HTTP server is implemented to communicate the streaming video content such as live television to the client device via the router . The client device may be implemented as any one or combination of a communication computer media playback gaming entertainment or electronic device such as a mobile phone or tablet device that can be configured as a television client device to receive and playback video content. The client device can be implemented with various components such as a processor and memory devices as well as with any combination of differing components as further described with reference to the example electronic device shown in .

For example the client device includes a video rendering system to playback video content for viewing on an integrated display device. The client device also includes various client applications that are implemented to manage the video content playback and communication with the media streamer via the router . For example the client device can include a media player that is implemented to manage media content playback. Additionally the client device can be implemented to utilize the HTTP protocol and REST APIs to communicate with the media streamer to query a list of television channels and initiate tuning to a channel of streaming video content to be decrypted transcoded encrypted and streamed to the client device .

As a device the media streamer can be implemented with various components such as a processor and memory devices as well as with any combination of differing components as further described with reference to the example electronic device shown in . In this example the media streamer includes a tuner controller a tuner and a transcoder . The tuner controller can receive an input from the client device to switch from a first video content stream to a second video content stream such as when a user is watching a television program on the client device and then initiates a channel change. The tuner tunes to the television channel frequency that correlates to the channel change input and the transcoder then decrypts and transcodes the streaming video content . The transcoder may also be implemented with a cryptography module MCard to decrypt or transcrypt the streaming video content .

The media streamer includes memory that maintains a software stack and can be implemented as a memory buffer for buffered video segments of the streaming video content . An example of the buffered video segments is described with reference to and an example of the software stack is described with reference to . The media streamer also includes a media streamer controller that can be implemented as computer executable instructions such as a software application and executed by one or more processors to implement the various embodiments described herein. The media streamer controller also referred to as a device controller implements optimizations for live television playback when a television channel change input is received.

When a channel change input is received from the client device the tuner at the media streamer is tuned and the transport for the selected television program is acquired decrypted transcoded segmented and encrypted for streaming to the client device . The process can be implemented using the HTTP Live Streaming protocol in which case the video segments are listed in a content manifest file in the order of playback at the client device . An example of content manifest files is described with reference to and the information regarding content manifest files are maintained in a database such as a SQL database to track which television channels are tuned and the data that corresponds to a tuned television channel.

Before playback of the video content begins at the client device after a channel change has been initiated a minimum number of the buffered video segments are typically buffered at the media streamer and identified in the content manifest file that correlates to the streaming video content . The transcoder writes the video segments into the memory buffer and a video segment is multiple frames of the video content. For example a one second video segment may include thirty frames and a client device may be designed to wait for ten seconds of the buffered video segments before the video content is downloaded to the client device . For HTTP Live Streaming a common implementation is ten second segments with approximately ten of the buffered video segments listed in the content manifest file. This content buffering latency varies with different devices and manufacturers.

In embodiments the media streamer controller is implemented to publish the content manifest file to the client device to indicate that at least a minimum of the buffered video segments have been buffered for distribution to the client device but before the minimum of the buffered video segments have actually been buffered. Additionally the buffered video segments are identified in the content manifest file as each new video segment is ready to be downloaded to the client device and communication of the buffered video segments to the client device can be initiated before the minimum of the buffered video segments needed for playback on the client device have been buffered. The content buffering and downloading delays of the buffered video segments are reduced with these optimizations. For example if the buffered video segments are each ten seconds in duration of video playback then playback of the video content would not typically start at the client device for approximately ten seconds after a television channel change input. This is improved by implementing a one second or even fractional second of segments in video playback duration and only three buffered video segments listed in the content manifest file to begin downloading the buffered video segments for playback at the client device .

The media streamer controller is also implemented to cache packet identifiers PIDs for the audio and video of the streaming video content to preclude latency associated with acquisition when switching to a video content stream. For example if a user changes to the same television channel again rather than acquiring the program association table and the program map table from the transport stream which may take approximately one half of a second the audio and video PIDs can be stored and obtained from a cache.

The media streamer controller is also implemented to generate a new content manifest file that correlates to the buffered video segments for a changed television channel rather than appending the data to an existing content manifest file. The new content manifest file is generated responsive to a channel change input received from the client device . Further the content manifest file can be regenerated when the content manifest file is requested by the client device . For example the client device can detect new buffered video segments for playback by querying for a content manifest file and downloading the buffered video segments that are published in the content manifest file. Storing the content manifest files in physical storage has the overhead of file locking and storage latency. This latency is reduced by dynamically generating the content manifest file when the client device requests the content manifest file.

Example method is described with reference to in accordance with one or more embodiments of live television playback optimizations. Generally any of the services functions methods procedures components and modules described herein can be implemented using software firmware hardware e.g. fixed logic circuitry manual processing or any combination thereof. A software implementation represents program code that performs specified tasks when executed by a computer processor. The example methods may be described in the general context of computer executable instructions which can include software applications routines programs objects components data structures procedures modules functions and the like. The program code can be stored in one or more computer readable storage media devices both local or remote to a computer processor. The methods may also be practiced in a distributed computing environment by multiple computer devices. Further the features described herein are platform independent and can be implemented on a variety of computing platforms having a variety of processors.

At block streaming video content is received for distribution at a client device that is configured to playback a video content stream for display. For example the media streamer receives the streaming video content from the content distributor such as live television streaming content received via a coaxial cable system. The video content stream is associated with a content manifest file that identifies buffered video segments of the video content stream to the client device .

At block an input is received from the client device to switch from the video content stream to a new video content stream. For example the tuner controller at the media streamer receives a television channel change input from the client device to initiate a switch from the video content stream to a new video content stream.

At block the new video content stream is tuned to discontinue transcoding the video content stream and begin transcoding the new video content stream for distribution to the client device . For example the tuner at the media streamer tunes to initiate the transcoder transcoding the new video content stream e.g. the streaming video content . At block video segments of the new video content stream are buffered. For example the memory at the media streamer maintains the buffered video segments as they are transcoded.

At block a new content manifest file that correlates to the buffered video segments of the new video content stream is generated. For example the media streamer controller at the media streamer generates the new content manifest file that correlates to the new video content stream and the buffered video segments are identified in the new content manifest file as each new video segment is ready to be downloaded to the client device . In some embodiments the new content manifest file is regenerated when the content manifest file is requested by the client device .

At block the new content manifest file is published to the client device to indicate that at least a minimum of the buffered video segments have been buffered for distribution. For example the media streamer controller at the media streamer publishes the new content manifest file to the client device to indicate that a minimum of the buffered video segments have been buffered for distribution to the client device but before the minimum of the buffered video segments have actually been buffered.

At block the buffered video segments of the new video content stream are communicated to the client device before the minimum of the buffered video segments have been buffered. For example the HTTP server at the media streamer communicates the buffered video segments to the client device before the minimum of the buffered video segments have been buffered. The streaming video content is communicated to the client device via the router that is implemented for wireless communication with the client device .

At block PIDs for audio and video of the new video content stream are cached to preclude latency associated with acquisition when switching to the new video content stream. For example the media streamer controller at the media streamer initiates caching audio and video PIDs of the new video content stream in the event that a user changes to the same television channel again. Rather than acquiring the program association table and the program map table from the transport stream the audio and video PIDs are stored and obtained from a cache.

The electronic device includes communication transceivers that enable wired or wireless communication of device data such as received data data that is being received data scheduled for broadcast data packets of the data etc. Example transceivers include wireless personal area network radios compliant with various IEEE 802.15 standards wireless local area network radios compliant with any of the various IEEE 802.11 standards wireless wide area network radios for cellular telephony wireless metropolitan area network radios compliant with various IEEE 802.15 standards and wired local area network Ethernet transceivers.

The electronic device may also include one or more data input ports via which any type of data media content or inputs can be received such as user selectable inputs messages music television content recorded video content and any other type of audio video or image data received from any content or data source. The data input ports may include USB ports coaxial cable ports and other serial or parallel connectors including internal connectors for flash memory DVDs CDs and the like. These data input ports may be used to couple the electronic device to components peripherals or accessories such as microphones or cameras.

The electronic device includes one or more processors e.g. any of microprocessors controllers and the like which process computer executable instructions to control operation of the device . Alternatively or in addition the electronic device can be implemented with any one or combination of software hardware firmware or fixed logic circuitry that is implemented in connection with processing and control circuits which are generally identified at . Although not shown the electronic device can include a system bus or data transfer system that couples the various components within the device . A system bus can include any one or combination of different bus structures such as a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus a universal serial bus or a processor or local bus that utilizes any of a variety of bus architectures.

The electronic device also includes one or more memory devices that enable data storage examples of which include random access memory non volatile memory e.g. read only memory flash memory EPROM EEPROM etc. and a disk storage device. A disk storage device may be implemented as any type of magnetic or optical storage device such as a hard disk drive a recordable or rewriteable disc any type of a DVD and the like. The electronic device may also include a mass storage media device.

A memory device provides data storage mechanisms to store the device data other types of information or data and various device applications e.g. software applications . For example an operating system can be maintained as software instructions within a memory device and executed on the processors . The device applications may also include a device manager such as any form of a control application software application signal processing and control module code that is native to a particular device a hardware abstraction layer for a particular device and so on. The electronic device may also include a media streamer controller and a media player such as for a media streamer device to implement embodiments of live television playback optimizations.

The electronic device also includes an audio or video processing system that generates audio data for an audio system or generates display data for a display system . The audio system or the display system may include any devices that process display or otherwise render audio video display or image data. Display data and audio signals can be communicated to an audio component or to a display component via a radio frequency link S video link high definition multimedia interface composite video link component video link digital video interface analog audio connection or other similar communication link such as the media data port . In some implementations the audio system or the display system is an external component to the electronic device . Alternatively the audio system or the display system is an integrated component of the example electronic device .

Although embodiments of live television playback optimizations have been described in language specific to features or methods the subject of the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or methods described. Rather the specific features and methods are disclosed as example implementations of live television playback optimizations.

