---

title: Generating broadband spectral power in multimode optical fibers
abstract: A broadband spectral power generator in a multimode optical fiber utilizes a standard multimode fiber that is coiled. A plate is placed on the coiled fiber and a force is applied to compresses the coiled fiber and thereby increase the interactions between the compressed windings and induce modal mixing and birefringence in the fiber. In addition, the compression causes additional non-linear processes to be excited and occur in the compressed fiber coil to generate more broadband light. This allows for better “mixing” of the spatial beam in the multimode fiber coil and allows for the various modes to overlap. The multimode fiber coil is made of silica, silicate, germinate, phosphate, fluoride, chalcogenide, or telluride. The compressed coiled fiber may be driven by a laser providing more than one wavelength output and this greatly increases the amount of nonlinear mixing in the fiber for a greatly enhanced spectral coverage.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09176278&OS=09176278&RS=09176278
owner: BAE Systems Information and Electronic Systems Integration Inc.
number: 09176278
owner_city: Nashua
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120822
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application 61 527 166 filed Aug. 25 2011 which is incorporated herein in its entirety by reference

The invention was made with United States Government assistance under contract no. W911W6 08 C 0004 awarded by the US Department of the Army. The United States Government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates to optical fibers and more specifically to generating broadband output with multimode optical fibers.

In optics a supercontinuum is formed when a collection of nonlinear processes act together upon a pump beam in order to cause severe spectral broadening of the original pump beam into a smooth spectral continuum. There is no definitive explanation of how much spectral broadening constitutes a supercontinuum.

A supercontinuum source typically consists of a pulsed laser and a non linear element in which a combination of non linear effects in the non linear element broadens the narrow band pulsed laser radiation into a continuous spectrum without destroying the spatial coherence of the laser light. Photonic crystal fibers are uniquely suited as the non linear medium for such supercontinuum sources offering high non linearity suitable dispersion characteristics and ease of use.

Examples of photonic crystal fibers used to create supercontinuum sources are available from NKT Photonics in Denmark Fianium in the UK and Leukos France.

These nonlinear photonic optical fibers are generally engineered to have particular dispersion and nonlinear characteristics based on specific wavelengths of interest. These nonlinear fibers also typically have very small core diameters 

An alternative to using a nonlinear optical fiber with a small diameter core is to use one with a larger diameter core and increase the length of the optical fiber. However using nonlinear optical fibers having long lengths usually leads to greater optical propagation losses so using optical fibers having small diameter cores helps to maintain a short length of optical fiber to minimize losses and maximize output power.

The main problem with small diameter optical fibers is that it is very difficult to free space couple a laser beam into an end of the optical fiber and hold the beam thereon efficiently. The tolerances associated with coupling a laser beam into an end of these small diameter optical fibers are very tight and any slight misalignments can lead to a loss of coupling between the two or to damage of the optical fiber. If a laser optical fiber system is required to handle even moderate temperature excursions this laser beam to optical fiber coupling becomes more difficult and very expensive to overcome.

Using fiber optic cables having larger core diameters offers easier optical coupling between a laser source and an end of the cable with looser tolerances. However optical fibers having larger diameter cores increases nonlinear thresholds and decreases optical intensity in the fibers. To overcome the decrease in optical intensity the length of the optical fiber must be increased. However the increase in length of the optical fiber often leads to more propagation losses. In addition use of optical fibers having larger diameter cores usually results in multimode operation of the optical fiber which also has an effect on nonlinear thresholds.

Thus a need therefore exists in the art for an inexpensive broadband supercontinuum generator that utilizes standard larger diameter optical fibers rather than specialized nonlinear optical fibers having small core diameters.

The aforementioned need in the prior art is satisfied by the teaching of the present invention. Rather than utilizing a special small core diameter optical fiber to create a supercontinuum generator source a standard larger core diameter multimode fiber is utilized. This larger core diameter multimode fiber may have a diameter of in the order of 15 microns and a length of 250 meters so avoids the mounting and other problems detailed in the Background of the Invention. To achieve the results formerly only available with small diameter optical fibers the long larger diameter multimode optical fiber is coiled around a typical fiber spool and is then compressed in a direction parallel to the axis of the spool. The result of the compression is that there are interactions between the coils of the multimode optical fiber that produce the same broadband supercontinuum output as if a small diameter multimode optical fiber was used.

This larger core diameter multimode fiber may have a diameter of in the order of 15 microns and a length of 250 meters and avoids the mounting and other problems detailed in the Background of the Invention for smaller core diameter optical fibers.

The process that occurs in such a standard multimode optical fiber is known as Stimulated Raman Scattering SRS and is a well known nonlinear process in optical fibers. The pump laser beam at wavelength interacts with a Raman medium optical fiber to generate Raman shifted radiation at additional wavelengths of and as shown in .

Very briefly the scattering of light may be thought of as the redirection of light that takes place when an electromagnetic wave from pulsed laser encounters an obstacle of non homogeneity coiled optical fiber . As the electromagnetic wave interacts with the matter the electron orbits within the constituent molecules are perturbed periodically with the same frequency as the electric field of the incident wave. The majority of light scattered is emitted at the identical frequency of the incident laser light a process referred to as elastic scattering. However additional light is scattered at different frequencies a process referred to as inelastic scattering. Raman scattering is one such example of inelastic scattering and produces light at multiple frequencies that are at both shorter and longer wavelengths than the wavelength of the incident wavelength of from laser . In the present invention the extra wavelengths generated and by the Raman scattering are all longer than the incident wavelength .

In an alternative embodiment of the invention pulsed laser may be a single laser or may be multiple lasers generating output light pulses at more than one wavelength to drive compressed fiber coil at the same time. More particularly laser s generating two or more wavelengths can be launched into a multimode fiber in the form of a compressed coil per the invention. The presence of multiple initial wavelengths input to fiber allows for even greater spectral coverage output compared to a single wavelength from laser pump . These multiple wavelengths will all Raman shift differently allowing for a larger spectral coverage having more peaks. In addition the compressed fiber coil can allow for the initial input wavelengths to mix providing a greater amount of nonlinear mixing in fiber coil for greatly enhanced spectral coverage compared to a single wavelength laser pump .

With the present invention optical fiber is preferably made of silica but may also be made of silicate germinate phosphate fluoride chalcogenide or telluride. In silica optical fibers the wavelength of each Raman shift wavelength is 440 cmshorter than its pump signal which is the previous longer wavelength as shown in . Thus as shown in 440 cm 440 cm 440 cm and 440 cm. That is the Raman shift spectrum.

There are a host of other nonlinear effects in optical fibers including Four Wave Mixing FWM Stimulated Brillouin Scattering SBS Self Phase Modulation SPM and Cross Phase Modulation XPM . The thresholds for these nonlinearities are dependent on fiber composition fiber length fiber core diameter and the amount of optical power contained within the fiber waveguide. In optical fibers these nonlinearities may interact to generate broadband output known as supercontinuum generation. The additional wavelength outputs so produced make up the supercontinuum are shown in and are interspersed with the Raman scattering outputs and .

In the preferred embodiment of the invention the multimode optical fiber that is utilized is not a special non linear fiber so does not have the problems described in the Background of the Invention for special small core diameter optical fibers. The result is reduced cost and less complexity in coupling a laser output into one end of a standard optical fiber and maintaining it there. In addition the standard optical fibers utilized with the invention are both inexpensive and robust.

In the preferred embodiment of the invention standard large core optical fibers are utilized which have a core that is larger than 5 microns in diameter. These optical fibers may be single mode or multimode but multimode optical fibers are preferred and are described herein. The advantage of using a multimode large core optical fiber is that it is easier to free space couple a laser there into and to maintain the optical coupling over vibrations and large temperature variations.

In the preferred embodiment of the invention described herein optical fiber has a core diameter of 15 microns and is 250 meters long. The length of the optical fiber depends on the amount of power from laser that is launched into optical fiber as well as the spectral coverage desired. The longer is optical fiber the broader is its spectral coverage. In the preferred embodiment of the invention the 250 meters of optical fiber is wound on a typical fiber spool that is shown in . The size height of fiber spool and the spacing between windings of optical fiber are shown exaggerated in to better understand the orientation and relationship between the elements.

By compressing the coil of optical fiber as shown in the previously mentioned additional nonlinear processes FWM XPM SPM etc. and possibly others are excited and occur in compressed fiber coil so more broadband light is generated. This is in contrast to standardly spooled fiber where only Raman shifting occurs as shown in .

As described above the compression allows for more spectral output from optical fiber using the same input laser by only changing the mechanical forces on fiber . The invention does not require special fiber nonlinear fiber photonic crystal fiber or even single mode fiber. The invention also does not require modulation instability in the fiber to generate supercontinuum light nor does it require a large amount of peak pulsed power from the pump laser . A standard multimode fiber is utilized to generate broadband output with spectral coverage defined by the fundamental Raman shifting in fiber . Multimode optical fibers are known in the art and have a high index of refraction core surrounded by an outer layer or cladding of a light transmitting material having a low index of refraction. The large diameter fiber core allows for easy and stable free space coupling of laser light into fiber at input end and the compressed coil of optical fiber allows for the generation of a broadband output as shown in . The broadband supercontinuum output shown in obviously goes beyond the Raman scattering outputs and shown in and repeated in . While a specific number of multimodes are shown and described herein an optical fiber cable having any number of multimodes may be utilized while practicing the invention. It has been experienced that larger core optical fibers having more than five modes promote more spectral coverage in the fiber and better fill in gaps between the Raman scattering peaks.

In is a graph showing the multi wavelength outputs and from coiled multimode optical fiber shown in due only to the Raman scattering before the invention is implemented. More particularly the multimode five outputs are which is the wavelength of the laser beam output from laser that is pumping optical fiber on fiber spool 440 cm 440 cm 440 cm and 440 cm. The laser beam from laser at wavelength and input to end of coiled optical fiber may be continuous wave or pulsed. Some of the energy that is originally in the pump laser beam at wavelength is transferred to the other wavelength outputs and . These additional wavelengths are known as Stokes wavelengths. This process continues to cascade throughout the length of optical fiber . The disadvantage of the Raman approach is that there are gaps between the wavelength shifts as seen in . For some applications these gaps are undesirable since portions of the spectrum are missing.

In is a graph showing the multi wavelength outputs and from the coiled multimode optical fiber shown in due only to the Raman scattering overlaid with the additional wavelengths generated by the additional processes enabled in fiber by the mechanical compression thereof. As previously described the broadband supercontinuum output shown by other peaks in obviously go beyond the Raman scattering outputs and shown in and repeated in .

The novelty is that the present invention does not require special fiber nonlinear fiber photonic crystal fiber or even single mode fiber. The invention also does not require modulation instability in the fiber to generate supercontinuum light nor does it require a large amount of peak pulsed power from the pump laser. A standard multimode fiber may be utilized to generate broadband output with spectral coverage defined by the fundamental Raman shifting in the fiber. The relatively large diameter core of the fiber allows for easy and stable free space coupling of light and the compressed coil enables other processes that generate additional wavelengths for the supercontinuum. In addition the intensity of the output spectra is well distributed in comparison to typical supercontinuum sources with higher optical intensities occurring at longer wavelengths than the fundamental. In typical supercontinuum sources the fundamental pump has the highest intensity in the fiber and the supercontinuum is generally surrounding that pump signal with significantly less intensity.

Further due to the utilization of the teaching of the invention the intensity of the supercontinuum output spectra shown in is well distributed and is mixed with the typical Raman spectrum shown in with higher optical intensities occurring at wavelengths longer than the fundamental wavelength. In typical prior art supercontinuum sources the fundamental wavelength of the pump at has the highest intensity in the fiber and the supercontinuum generally surrounds the fundamental pump signal with significantly less intensity. As seen in with the utilization of the invention the gaps between the Raman shifts wavelengths are filled in showing a more broadband spectral output. In addition wavelengths longer than the initial Raman shifts are present in the output shown in allowing for enhanced spectral coverage. Stated another way new modes wavelengths are generated which are interspersed with the prior art Raman wavelength modes shown in . The final result is the more broadband spectral output shown in .

Some optical fibers that may be utilized with the present invention are photonic crystal fibers and air holes are placed in the optical fiber itself to engineer the dispersion and propagation characteristics of the fiber. Although such photonic crystal fibers offer high nonlinearity they have drawbacks. It is very difficult to splice to them and the air holes must remain clean and free from debris to maintain its optical properties.

In alternative embodiments of the invention single mode fibers or large effective mode area LMA fibers may be utilized to allow for easy free space coupling of a laser beam. LMA optical fibers are those having relatively large mode areas and a single transverse mode or only a few modes. Due to the reduced optical intensities such LMA fibers effectively have lower nonlinearities and a higher damage threshold which makes them suitable for e.g. the amplification of intense pulses or single frequency signals in fiber amplifiers. Standard single mode fibers have an effective mode area below 100 m and large mode area LMA fibers reach values of hundreds or even thousands of m.

A straightforward design approach to obtain large mode areas is to decrease the numerical aperture NA i.e. to decrease the refractive index difference between the core and the cladding for a step index fiber design. The numerical aperture NA is also called an acceptance angle and measures the range of acceptance of light into an optical fiber. If fiber coil is coiled too tightly too small a diameter higher order modes in the fiber are lost.

The best optical fiber designs reach an effective mode area of several thousand m. This is not a strict limit but designs with larger mode areas exhibit less robust single mode propagation and often can tolerate only very slight bending. It appears that no kind of design can offer a further substantial expansion of the mode area with robust single mode propagation. The reason for this is essentially that a mode involves some balance of diffraction and waveguiding and as diffraction inevitably becomes weaker at larger mode areas this balance becomes more and more sensitive to any disturbances.

While what has been described herein is s preferred embodiment of the invention those skilled in the art will realize that numerous changes may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.

