---

title: Geographical location aggregation from multiple sources
abstract: Systems and methods for obtaining geographical location data from multiple sources and aggregating the geographical location data are disclosed. A particular embodiment includes: receiving geo-location data from a plurality of geo-location data collectors, at least one of the plurality of geo-location data collectors being in data communication with an in-vehicle geo-location data source, at least one of the plurality of geo-location data collectors being in data communication with a geo-location data source in a mobile device; collecting reliability data corresponding to one or more of a plurality of geo-location data sources corresponding to the plurality of geo-location data collectors; collecting map data including information related to geographical features associated with the geo-location data; and aggregating, by use of a data processor, the geo-location data from the plurality of geo-location data collectors based on the reliability data and the map data to produce a resulting geo-location fix.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08898002&OS=08898002&RS=08898002
owner: CloudCar, Inc.
number: 08898002
owner_city: Los Altos
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121127
---
This patent document pertains generally to tools systems apparatuses methodologies computer program products etc. for processing geographical location data and more particularly but not by way of limitation to a system and method for obtaining geographical location data from multiple sources and aggregating the geographical location data.

An increasing number of vehicles are being equipped with one or more independent computer and electronic processing systems. Certain of the processing systems are provided for vehicle operation or efficiency. For example many vehicles are now equipped with computer systems for controlling engine parameters brake systems tire pressure and other vehicle operating characteristics. Other in vehicle processing systems provide location based services such as navigation and proximity alerting. In support of these location based services many vehicles are being equipped with one or more global positioning system GPS devices. GPS devices use a well known technology for receiving data and timing from satellites to determine a geographical location or geo location. GPS receivers can provide location and time information in all weather anywhere on or near the Earth where there is an unobstructed line of sight to four or more GPS satellites. However an unobstructed line of sight to four or more GPS satellites in a moving vehicle is not always practical. For example tunnels canyons mountains tall buildings and the like can interfere with GPS signal reception. As a result reliable geo location data from in vehicle GPS receivers can be intermittent inaccurate or lost altogether.

In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the various embodiments. It will be evident however to one of ordinary skill in the art that the various embodiments may be practiced without these specific details.

As described in various example embodiments a system and method for obtaining geographical location data from multiple sources and aggregating the geographical location data are described herein. In one particular embodiment a geographical location aggregation system is provided in the context of a cloud based vehicle information and control ecosystem configured and used like the ecosystem illustrated in . However it will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that the geographical location aggregation system described and claimed herein can be implemented configured and used in a variety of other applications and systems.

Particular example embodiments relate to the communication of signals and information and the activation of procedures and or services between network resources mobile devices and Controller Area Network CAN buses in a vehicle. Embodiments disclosed herein generally can use the signals communicated between electronic control units ECUs of a vehicle a controller platform network based mobile devices such as mobile phones or mobile computing platforms and network resources such as server computers. Data signals communicated from the ECUs to the mobile devices or network resources may include information about the state of one or more of the components of the vehicle including a geo location fix or timing information from one or more GPS receivers installed in the vehicle. In particular in some embodiments the data signals which are communicated from the ECUs to the CAN bus are abstracted by an automotive data abstraction and communication device abstraction device . The abstraction device connects directly to an On Board Diagnostics OBD connector that enables access to the CAN bus. The abstraction device converts the data signals from a vehicle specific format to a mobile device format defined by an Application Programming Interface API . The abstraction device then wirelessly and securely transmits the data signals to the mobile device and or a network resource. By converting the data signals to the mobile device format the mobile device may use the data signals without knowing the vehicle specific or GPS specific format. Additionally the mobile device format defined by the API exposes the data signals ECUs and other vehicle hardware and software in a standardized way thereby enabling multiple vendors or software developers to create mobile device applications that process the data signals. In the same way the API can expose the data signals ECUs and other vehicle hardware and software in a standardized way for the network resources.

Additionally a user of the mobile device and or a network resource can send a write or control signal from the mobile device and or network resource through the abstraction device to the CAN bus. The write control signal enables the user of the mobile device and or network resource to alter the state of one or more components included in the vehicle. The write signal is formatted in the mobile device format defined by the API and wirelessly transmitted to the abstraction device. The abstraction device converts the write control signal to the vehicle specific format and communicates the write signal to the vehicle. By converting the write signal from the mobile device format defined by the API to the vehicle specific format or GPS receiver specific format the abstraction device may interface with multiple vehicles. Additionally the mobile device format defined by the API acts as a common programming language enabling multiple vendors to write mobile device and or network resource applications that may communicate read and write signals to multiple types of vehicles independent of the model or manufacturer. In this manner a mobile device a network resource or other vehicle subsystems can have access to geo location data generated by an in vehicle GPS receiver by an in vehicle dead reckoning subsystem by a mobile device geo location subsystem or by a network resource geo location subsystem. In the various example embodiments described in more detail below the geo location data generated by a variety of sources can be shared with a variety of other subsystems in the cloud based vehicle information and control ecosystem. As a result a more accurate geo location can be determined based on an aggregate of the geo location information obtained from a plurality of sources.

As used herein the term CAN bus refers to any bus used in a vehicle for communicating signals between ECUs or components including automotive standards or other standards like MOST LIN I2C and Ethernet. The CAN bus may be a bus that operates according to versions of the CAN specification but is not limited thereto. The term CAN bus can therefore refer to buses that operate according to other specifications including those that might be developed in the future.

As used herein and unless specified otherwise the term mobile device extends to any device that can communicate with the abstraction devices described herein to obtain read or write access to messages or data signals communicated on a CAN bus or via any other mode of inter process data communications. In many cases the mobile device is a handheld portable device such as a smart phone mobile phone cellular telephone tablet computer laptop computer display pager radio frequency RF device infrared IR device global positioning system GPS device Personal Digital Assistants PDAs handheld computers wearable computer portable game console other mobile communication and or computing device or an integrated device combining one or more of the preceding devices and the like. Additionally the mobile device can be a computing device personal computer PC multiprocessor system microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronic device network PC diagnostics equipment a system operated by a vehicle manufacturer or service technician and the like and is not limited to portable devices. The mobile device can receive and process data in any of a variety of data formats. The data format may include or be configured to operate with any programming format protocol operating system or language including but not limited to JavaScript C iOS Android etc.

As used herein and unless specified otherwise the term network resource extends to any device system or service that can communicate with the abstraction devices described herein to obtain read or write access to messages or data signals communicated on a CAN bus or via any other mode of inter process or networked data communications. In many cases the network resource is a data network accessible computing platform including client or server computers websites mobile devices peer to peer P2P network nodes and the like. Additionally the network resource can be a web appliance a network router switch bridge gateway diagnostics equipment a system operated by a vehicle manufacturer or service technician or any machine capable of executing a set of instructions sequential or otherwise that specify actions to be taken by that machine. Further while only a single machine is illustrated the term machine can also be taken to include any collection of machines that individually or jointly execute a set or multiple sets of instructions to perform any one or more of the methodologies discussed herein. The network resource may include any of a variety of providers or processors of network transportable digital content. Typically the file format that is employed is Extensible Markup Language XML however the various embodiments are not so limited and other file formats may be used. For example data formats other than Hypertext Markup Language HTML XML or formats other than open standard data formats can be supported by various embodiments. Any electronic file format such as Portable Document Format PDF audio e.g. Motion Picture Experts Group Audio Layer 3 MP3 and the like video e.g. MP4 and the like and any proprietary interchange format defined by specific content sites can be supported by the various embodiments described herein.

The data network also denoted the network cloud used with the network resources can be configured to couple one computing or communication device with another computing or communication device. The network may be enabled to employ any form of computer readable data or media for communicating information from one electronic device to another. The network can include the Internet in addition to other wide area networks WANs metro area networks local area networks LANs other packet switched networks circuit switched networks direct data connections such as through a universal serial bus USB or Ethernet port other forms of computer readable media or any combination thereof. On an interconnected set of networks including those based on differing architectures and protocols a router or gateway can act as a link between networks enabling messages to be sent between computing devices on different networks. Also communication links within networks can typically include twisted wire pair cabling USB Firewire Ethernet or coaxial cable while communication links between networks may utilize analog or digital telephone lines full or fractional dedicated digital lines including T1 T2 T3 and T4 Integrated Services Digital Networks ISDNs Digital User Lines DSLs wireless links including satellite links cellular telephone links or other communication links known to those of ordinary skill in the art. Furthermore remote computers and other related electronic devices can be remotely connected to the network via a modem and temporary telephone link.

The network may further include any of a variety of wireless sub networks that may further overlay stand alone ad hoc networks and the like to provide an infrastructure oriented connection. Such sub networks may include mesh networks Wireless LAN WLAN networks cellular networks and the like. The network may also include an autonomous system of terminals gateways routers and the like connected by wireless radio links or wireless transceivers. These connectors may be configured to move freely and randomly and organize themselves arbitrarily such that the topology of the network may change rapidly.

The network may further employ a plurality of access technologies including 2nd 2G 2.5 3rd 3G 4th 4G generation radio access for cellular systems WLAN Wireless Router WR mesh and the like. Access technologies such as 2G 3G 4G and future access networks may enable wide area coverage for mobile devices such as one or more of client devices with various degrees of mobility. For example the network may enable a radio connection through a radio network access such as Global System for Mobile communication GSM General Packet Radio Services GPRS . Enhanced Data GSM Environment EDGE . Wideband Code Division Multiple Access WCDMA CDMA2000 and the like. The network may also be constructed for use with various other wired and wireless communication protocols including TCP IP UDP SIP SMS RTP WAP CDMA TDMA EDGE UMTS GPRS GSM UWB WiMax IEEE 802.11x and the like. In essence the network may include virtually any wired and or wireless communication mechanisms by which information may travel between one computing device and another computing device network and the like.

In a particular embodiment a platform system and or a mobile device with network access may act as a client device enabling a user to access and use the cloud based vehicle information and control system via the network. These client devices may include virtually any computing device that is configured to send and receive information over a network such as network ecosystem as described herein. Such client devices may include mobile devices such as cellular telephones smart phones tablet computers display pagers radio frequency RF devices infrared IR devices global positioning devices GPS Personal Digital Assistants PDAs handheld computers wearable computers game consoles integrated devices combining one or more of the preceding devices and the like. The client devices may also include other computing devices such as personal computers PCs multiprocessor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics network PC s and the like. As such client devices may range widely in terms of capabilities and features. For example a client device configured as a cell phone may have a numeric keypad and a few lines of monochrome LCD display on which only text may be displayed. In another example a web enabled client device may have a touch sensitive screen a stylus and a color LCD display screen in which both text and graphics may be displayed. Moreover the web enabled client device may include a browser application enabled to receive and to send wireless application protocol messages WAP and or wired application messages and the like. In one embodiment the browser application is enabled to employ HyperText Markup Language HTML Dynamic HTML Handheld Device Markup Language HDML Wireless Markup Language WML WMLScript JavaScript EXtensible lITML xHTML Compact HTML CHTML and the like to display and send a message with relevant information.

The client devices may also include at least one client application that is configured to receive content or messages from another computing device via a network transmission. The client application may include a capability to provide and receive textual content graphical content video content audio content alerts messages notifications and the like. Moreover the client devices may be further configured to communicate and or receive a message such as through a Short Message Service SMS direct messaging e.g. Twitter email Multimedia Message Service MMS instant messaging IM internet relay chat IRC mlRC Jabber Enhanced Messaging Service EMS text messaging Smart Messaging. Over the Air OTA messaging or the like between another computing device and the like. The client devices may also include a wireless application device on which a client application is configured to enable a user of the device to send and receive information to from network resources wirelessly via the network.

In the system includes a vehicle an abstraction device and a mobile device . Generally depicts the communication of data signals from the vehicle to the abstraction device and to the mobile device . Some of the data signals can be produced at the vehicle the format of the data signals are converted at the abstraction device and the data signals are processed at the mobile device .

In a particular embodiment related to a cloud based vehicle information and control ecosystem vehicle may include multiple automotive components A N generally a component or components . The components include the individual apparatuses systems subsystems mechanisms etc. that are included in the vehicle . The components may include but are not limited to windows door locks oxygen sensors an ignition system windshield wipers brakes engines GPS and navigation systems a tachometer etc.

The vehicle may additionally include one or more electronic control units A N an ECU or ECUs . The ECUs are associated with the components . As used with respect to the relationship between the ECUs and the components the term associated with may refer to the component including an ECU the component being coupled to and ECU for monitoring a state of the component the ECU controlling the component or some combination thereof. As illustrated in one ECU is associated with one component . However this depiction is not meant to be limiting. In some embodiments one ECU may be associated with multiple components . Additionally or alternatively multiple ECUs may be associated with a single component . Additionally or alternatively some embodiments include ECUs associated with some subset of ECUs etc.

In a first component A is associated with a first ECU A a second component B is associated with a second ECU and an Nth component N is associated with an Nth ECU N. The inclusion of the Nth component N the Nth ECU N and the ellipses is meant to indicate that the number of components and or ECUs are not limited. That is the vehicle may include hundreds or thousands of components and or ECUs for instance.

In the particular embodiment shown in the first ECU A associated with the first component may monitor the first component . The ECU A may communicate a state or a condition of the first component as a data signal to the CAN bus . For example if the first component A was the steering wheel the first ECU A may communicate the radial position of the steering wheel in real time to the CAN bus . For another example if the first component A was an in vehicle GPS device the first ECU A may communicate the geo location of the vehicle in real time to the CAN bus . Similarly the second ECU B and the Nth ECU N may communicate the data signals to the CAN bus regarding the state or the condition of the second component B and the Nth component N respectively. Accordingly the data signals may include but are not limited to the geo location of the vehicle based on data reported from a GPS device the speed of the vehicle the distance traveled by the vehicle since engine start positions of the vehicle windows positions of the vehicle door locks oxygen levels measured in the oxygen sensors ignition timing state of the windshield wipers a position of the steering wheel RPM of the engine and the like.

The data signals may be formatted in a vehicle specific format i.e. specific to a vehicle make and model. The vehicle specific format generally refers to the format of the data signals for the vehicle . That is the vehicle may be manufactured by a first manufacturer that may have a vehicle specific format for all its vehicles. Alternatively the first manufacturer may have a vehicle specific format for different models years option packages etc. Generally the vehicle specific formats of different vehicles are not the same. Thus a vehicle manufactured by the first manufacturer typically has a different vehicle specific format that a second vehicle manufactured by a second manufacture. Additionally or alternatively in some embodiments the data signals may be differential signals.

The CAN bus receives the data signals from the ECUs . Additionally the CAN bus may enable the components or some subset thereof to internally communicate without an additional computer system. Thus data signals received at the CAN bus may be available for download may be internally communicated within the vehicle or may be dropped.

In some embodiments the CAN bus may be coupled to a bus connector that enables access to the CAN bus . For example in this and other embodiments the vehicle may include an On Board Diagnostics OBD connector. The bus connector may be configured according to an OBD II specification for instance. In embodiments with multiple CAN buses the vehicle may include multiple bus connectors and or alternative bus connectors that enable access to one or more CAN buses . In most modern vehicles the CAN bus includes the bus connector located under the hood or accessible through the removal of a panel in the cabin of the vehicle . However embodiments described herein can be implemented by using connector that connects with CAN bus in any available way.

The data signals or some subset thereof may be communicated to the abstraction device . In some embodiments the abstraction device is a discrete unit that can be adapted for use with one or more existing or new vehicles . For example as explained herein the abstraction device can be embodied in a discrete unit that can be installed in an existing or new vehicle by connecting it to the bus connector e.g. an OBD II connector associated with CAN bus . In this way the methods and systems described herein can be easily used with substantially any new or existing vehicle that includes a CAN bus .

In other embodiments the abstraction device or elements thereof may be integrated into new vehicles or retrofitted into an existing vehicle. Under this approach the elements of the abstraction device are a substantially permanent system of vehicle . In this case abstraction device can replace or supplement the bus connector that may otherwise be present in the vehicle . In these embodiments the abstraction device may be a platform within a larger apparatus or system or may be an integrated circuit with controllers and or microcontrollers that manage or dictate the function of the abstraction device .

The abstraction device couples with the bus connector associated with the CAN bus via a connector . For example the CAN bus may have a bus connector e.g. an OBD II connector that is adapted to connect with the connector or the abstraction device may include the connector adapted to interface with the bus connector . Generally the interface between the connector and the bus connector includes a physical connection as well as an electrical interface such that the data signals communicated to the CAN bus may be further communicated to the abstraction device .

When connected to the CAN bus the connector may communicate the data signals to mapping platform . Generally the mapping platform may be configured to convert a data signal from the vehicle specific format into a mobile device format and or a network resource format defined by an Application Programming Interface API . Additionally in some embodiments the API included in the mapping platform may enable the conversion of data signals from multiple vehicle specific formats to the mobile device format and or a network resource format. Thus the mapping platform may not be specific to the vehicle . Some additional details of the mapping platform and the API are discussed with reference to .

Alternatively in some embodiments the abstraction device may include one or more controllers that may be configured to receive one or more data signals from the CAN bus . The controller may then communicate the data signals to the mapping platform .

In the example embodiment of the abstraction device may include a certification module configured to limit access to the data signal converted to the mobile device format by the mapping platform . In the example of the certification module determines that mobile device is authenticated at a level that permits the mobile device to access events mapped from the CAN messages by the mapping platform . In this way mobile device in this example is prevented from having full access to the raw CAN messages thereby substantially limiting the ability of mobile device to perform action that might damage the vehicle or put the passengers in danger.

As shown in the transceiver Tx Rx in may receive an identification signal from the mobile device and or a mobile device application on the mobile device . The communication of the identification signal is indicated by the arrow in . The identification signal may include one or more privileges possessed by the mobile device and or the mobile device application . For example the mobile device may be owned or operated by a mechanic who may have a specific privilege without authentication of the specific mobile device application or the specific mobile device application may include a privilege. Some examples of privileges may include one or more read privileges and or one or more write privileges. The identification signal may be communicated from the transceiver to the certification module . The certification module may verify or authenticate whether the mobile device and or the mobile device application includes a specific privilege.

Abstraction device can be implemented using systems that enhance the security of the execution environment thereby improving security and reducing the possibility that the abstraction device and the related services could be compromised by viruses or malware. For example abstraction device can be implemented using a Trusted Execution Environment which can ensure that sensitive data is stored processed and communicated in a secure way.

As stated above the transceiver may receive data signals that have been converted to the mobile device format and or a network resource format defined by the API. The transceiver may then communicate the data signals formatted in the mobile device format to the mobile device . In the communication of the data signal to the mobile device is represented by arrow A. More specifically in this and other embodiments the transceiver may be configured to wirelessly communicate the data signal in the mobile device format to the mobile device . The transceiver may include several configurations. In this and other embodiments the transceiver may include a wireless receiver to receive identification signals and or write signals from the mobile device another receiver to receive the data signals from the mapping platform a wireless transmitter to communicate the data signals in the API to the mobile device and another transmitter that communicates identification signals to the communication module and or write signals to the mapping platform . In some embodiments the transceiver includes a Bluetooth transceiver.

Additionally in some embodiments the transceiver may establish a secure channel between the abstraction device and the mobile device . In addition to or alternative to the secure channel the abstraction device may encrypt the data signals formatted in the mobile device format. The mobile device may decrypt the data signals. The inclusion of the secure channel and or encryption may enhance security of the data signals communicated to the mobile device .

The mobile device receives the data signals communicated from the abstraction device . In embodiments in which the transceiver wirelessly communicates the data signals to the mobile device the mobile device can include wireless capabilities such as Bluetooth Wi Fi 3G 4G LTE etc. For example if the transceiver includes a Bluetooth transceiver the mobile device includes Bluetooth capabilities. Generally the mobile device includes one or more mobile device applications that process the data signals. The mobile device application may be loaded downloaded or installed on the mobile device . Alternatively the mobile device may access the mobile device application via a network cloud or internet browser for example. The mobile device application may also be accessed and used as a Software as a Service SaaS application. The mobile device application may be written or created to process data signals in the mobile device format rather than the vehicle specific format. Accordingly the mobile device application may be vehicle agnostic. That is the mobile device application may process data signals from any vehicle once the data signals formatted in the vehicle specific format are converted by the mapping platform .

In some embodiments the mobile device application includes an ability to perform an API call. The API call is represented in by arrow A. The API call A may be an integrated portion of the mobile device application and may allow a user of the mobile device to request data signals from the vehicle . The API call A may be communicated to the transceiver which then relays the content of the API call A through the mapping platform which converts the requested data signals to the mobile device format. The requested data signals are transmitted to the mobile device . In other embodiments a remote procedure call RPC can be used to request data or invoke a function using an inter process communication that allows a mobile device application for example to cause a sub process or procedure to execute in a vehicle component or the abstraction device .

By processing the data signals the mobile device application may function better than a mobile device application without the data signals or may be able to provide functionality not possible without the data signals. For example the mobile device applications may include a navigation application. The navigation application may receive GPS signals as well as data signals related to a radial position of the steering wheel an angle of the tires a speed etc. of the vehicle . The navigation application may process the GPS signals as well as the data signals from the vehicle . Thus the navigation application may output more accurate navigation data than another navigation application that only processes GPS signals.

Additionally or alternatively the mobile device application may enable abstraction of data signals for aggregate uses. For some aggregate uses the mobile device application may sync with one or more secondary systems not shown . For example the mobile device may abstract data signals related to states of the windshield wipers. The mobile device may communicate with a secondary system that determines weather patterns based on the state of windshield wipers in multiple vehicles in a given location at a given time.

Examples of the mobile device applications are not limited to the above examples. The mobile device application may include any application that processes abstracts or evaluates data signals from the vehicle or transmits write control signals to the vehicle .

Referring now to a cloud based vehicle information and control ecosystem is illustrated. In an example embodiment the communication path between a mobile device and the subsystems of a vehicle as described above can be expanded into a cloud based vehicle information and control ecosystem that brings the full power of the Web to bear on enhancing the driving experience. In the particular example embodiment shown in the ecosystem can be partitioned into three layers an application layer first layer a framework layer second layer and a platform layer third layer . The application layer represents the most abstract and broad level of the vehicle information and control system. The application layer can include a vehicle information and control system which can provide several subsystems including a map or geo location based support subsystem a user or people communication based support subsystem a media e.g. audio or video support subsystem and a vehicle subsystem . These subsystems provide support for a variety of vehicle driver passenger and 3party applications such as geo navigation in vehicle control of media hands free communication monitoring and control of various vehicle systems and components convergence of social communities with vehicle operation mining of vehicle and or driving related data from a single vehicle or thousands of vehicles. The application layer can be in data communication with content sources via the network cloud directly or via one or more apps software application modules configured to process and serve data and services from a particular content source . The network cloud represents one or more of the various types of data networks described above such as the Internet cellular telephone networks or other conventional data networks and related network protocols. The content sources represent a type of the network resources e.g. server computers websites etc. described above. In an example embodiment the application layer is configured to provide information access and control to users from a variety of user devices via local or remote data communications.

Additionally the application layer can provide a user interface server to support human interaction with the various applications of the application layer. In a particular embodiment the user interface server can include a map or geo location based support subsystem interface a user or people communication based support subsystem interface a media e.g. audio or video support subsystem interface and a vehicle subsystem interface . The user interface server can be in data communication with the vehicle information and control system via the network cloud . The user interface server can also be in data communication with content sources via the network cloud .

In an example embodiment the map or geo location based support subsystem and its related interface provides information and services to support in vehicle navigation mapping routing location searching proximity alerting and a variety of functions related to geo location. One of the components of the vehicle can include a global positioning system GPS device that can produce a geo coordinate position of the vehicle at any point in time. Alternatively or in addition a GPS device can be available in a mobile device that is accessible to one of the components of the vehicle . The data from these one or more GPS devices is accessible to the geo location based support subsystem using the data transfer mechanisms described above. The geo location based support subsystem can use this geo coordinate position of the vehicle to correlate the locations of points of interest in proximity to the location of the vehicle. The locations of these points of interest can be obtained from a locally maintained database or from any of the network resources accessible via the network cloud . The geo location based support subsystem interface can present these points of interest to an occupant of the vehicle using the data transfer mechanisms described above. The occupant of the vehicle can select one or more points of interest and the geo location based support subsystem can generate mapping navigation and routing information related to the selected points of interest. The geo location based support subsystem interface can also generate alerts to notify the vehicle occupant of the proximity of a point of interest.

In an example embodiment the user or people communication based support subsystem and its related interface provides information and services to support interactions and communications between people. These interactions and communications can include in vehicle wireless telephone communications messaging texting social network updates e.g. Facebook Twitter etc. contact list management conferencing and the like. The user or people communication based support subsystem can also coordinate with the geo location based support subsystem to correlate the geo locations of people of interest and generate corresponding alerts. The people of interest can be determined or user specified based on contact lists social network profiles network resource searches and the like.

In an example embodiment the media e.g. audio or video support subsystem and its related interface provides information and services to support the search selection purchase and playing of audio video or other media selections in the vehicle. One of the components of the vehicle can include a media player which can receive content for playback from a traditional antennae source an optical disc source e.g. compact disc CD magnetic tape or the like. Additionally the media player can include a dock or physical interface for receiving a portable MP3 player cellular telephone or other mobile device. The media player can be configured to play or record media content from these mobile devices. Moreover the media player can include an interface for search selection purchase and playing of audio video or other media selections from a network resource. In this manner any media content available in the network cloud can be streamed or downloaded to a media player and played or recorded in the vehicle.

In an example embodiment the vehicle subsystem and its related interface provides information and services to support the monitoring configuration and control of vehicle subsystems. As described above the components of the vehicle can include a variety of vehicle subsystems and related ECUs. The status of these vehicle subsystems can be communicated through the abstraction layers shown in as described above. The vehicle subsystem can receive these vehicle subsystem status signals and process these signals in a variety of ways. Similarly vehicle control signals generated by the vehicle subsystem and its related interface can be communicated through the abstraction layers shown in as described above. These control signals can be used by one or more components of the vehicle to configure and control the operation of the one or more components .

Referring still to the framework layer represents a set of interfaces and control subsystems supporting the application layer and platform layer to which the framework layer is connected. The framework layer provides a lower level of abstraction for servicing a particular type of device such as a mobile device and the mobile apps therein. The framework layer can provide a user interface server to support human interaction with the various applications of the application layer via a map or location based support subsystem interface a user or people communication based support subsystem interface a media support subsystem interface and a vehicle subsystem interface . In one embodiment the user interface server at the framework layer can substantially mirror the functionality provided by the user interface server at the application layer except the user interface server can be implemented in a smaller footprint e.g. requires less memory and less processing power . As a result the user interface server may have less robust functionality or a reduced level of functionality with respect to subsystems of the user interface server and corresponding subsystems of user interface server . However the user interface server can still provide support albeit a reduced level of functionality for vehicle and or driver applications even when connection with the network cloud is interrupted intermittent or temporarily lost. Thus the framework layer is well suited though not exclusively suited to a mobile environment where uninterrupted access to the network cloud cannot always be assured. When access to the network cloud is available the full support of the vehicle and or driver applications can be provided by the components of the application layer. When access to the network cloud is not available or not reliable a somewhat reduced level of support of the vehicle and or driver applications can still be provided by the components of the framework layer without network cloud connectivity. As shown in the user interface server can provide a user interface for the mobile apps executing on a mobile device . Because the user interface server is in data communications with the components of the vehicle via the platform system described below the user interface server can provide any data or vehicle status signals needed by a mobile device app . Similarly the user interface server can communicate any control signals or configuration parameters from the mobile device app to a corresponding component via the platform system .

The platform layer represents a variety of components designed to reside on or with a platform system which is typically installed on or in a vehicle such as the vehicle described above. As shown in the platform system of an example embodiment can include a cloudcast subsystem a carlink subsystem a platform operating system and a virtualization module . The platform operating system can provide an execution environment for the platform system components and interfaces to low level hardware. The platform operating system can execute platform apps to process platform system data and or data captured from the ECUs of the vehicle. The virtualization module can provide a logical abstraction or virtualization of the resources hardware or software functional components installed with or accessible to the platform system . The cloudcast subsystem provides a variety of technologies and or interfaces with which the platform system can for example decode data and or a media stream for presentation to vehicle occupants. In a particular embodiment the platform system can be implemented as the abstraction device shown in and described above.

Conventional technologies provide a process for mixing the signals produced by a GPS receiver and signals produced by dead reckoning subsystems. Dead reckoning subsystems refer to vehicle subsystems such as speed sensors distance measuring systems gyroscopes inertial navigation systems and the like. For example an article by Georg zur Bonsen Daniel Ammann Michael Ammann Etienne Favey and Pascal Flammant titled Combining GPS with Sensor Based Dead Reckoning GPS World Apr. 1 2005 describes computing a weighted mix of GPS data and dead reckoning data. The algorithmic approach can be embedded into an enhanced Kalman filter. This approach eliminates multipath effects position jumps and distortions from jamming sources. Depending on the quality of the GPS signal indicated for example by the number and distribution of visible satellites dilution of precision value etc. and on the confidence level of the dead reckoning signal that is how well the sensors are calibrated at the moment a weighted mix of both GPS and dead reckoning can be chosen to generate better results. In practice this approach can provide uninterrupted reliable navigation results in the most challenging urban environments including New York Hong Kong and Tokyo. However for accurate dead reckoning calibration is required for the odometer pulses and the gyroscope. Different vehicle models provide signals with different wheel pulses per unit distance. The dead reckoning software must match the wheel pulses with the distance traveled as measured with some reference such as GPS. Calibration must be an ongoing process to account for small variations such as those due to changing tires. In regard to the gyroscope two parameters need to be calibrated voltage offset and volts per degrees per second. Furthermore the gyroscope exhibits temperature dependent characteristics and aging effects. The on going calibration process during normal operation must compensate for the aging effects. Thus for a number of reasons dead reckoning can be subject to inaccuracies. Even when signals produced by a GPS receiver and signals produced by dead reckoning subsystems are mixed the errors persist particularly when the GPS data becomes intermittent interrupted or unreliable.

The various embodiments described herein provide a system and method for obtaining geographical location data from multiple sources and aggregating the geographical location data to produce a more accurate geo location fix. As described above the geo location data from one or more in vehicle device subsystems can be obtained by one or more corresponding ECU s and communicated up the layers of the cloud based vehicle information and control ecosystem . These in vehicle device subsystems can include GPS receivers dead reckoning subsystems and other subsystems from which geo location data can be extracted.

Furthermore as described in more detail below the layers of the cloud based vehicle information and control ecosystem can also provide access to GPS receivers other geo location sensing devices or other geo location data sources that may be available in the mobile devices of the occupants of the vehicle or available from network based geo location data sources. As described above and shown in the framework layer and the user interface server therein provides wireless access to a mobile device which can include a GPS receiver from which GPS data can be extracted. Clearly the GPS data obtained from the mobile device is generated by a different GPS receiver than the GPS data obtained from an in vehicle GPS receiver via a corresponding ECU. Moreover and separate from the mobile device resident GPS receiver mobile devices can be used for determining geo location using other techniques. For example cell tower triangulation can be used to determine the location of a cellular telephone merely based on the location of the cell towers that are receiving a wireless signal from the cellular telephone at any point in time. Similarly many modem mobile devices are enabled for WiFi wireless network access. These mobile devices emit WiFi signals which can be received and processed by a wireless router or other WiFi access point WAP if the router or WAP is within the range of the mobile device s WiFi signals. The router or WAP can be used by the WiFi enabled mobile device to connect to a wide area network such as the Internet. The location of the router or WAP can also be used to determine the geo location of the mobile device if the mobile device is within range of the router or WAP. Techniques for determining the location of a mobile device based on a mobile device resident GPS receiver cell tower triangulation or WiFi WAP proximity are well known to those of ordinary skill in the art. As shown in the framework layer and the user interface server therein provides wireless access to a mobile device and can use these various techniques for determining the location of a mobile device . As described in more detail herein the location of a mobile device can be shared with other layers and other subsystems for comparing and cross checking location information obtained from other sources.

The application layer of the cloud based vehicle information and control ecosystem the vehicle information and control system and user interface server provide access to a variety of content sources via network which can represent network based geo location data sources. The network can include the Internet. These network based geo location sources can provide a variety of geo location data and reliability data which can be used to reference or calibrate the geo location fix received from a different source particularly a source in a vehicle. For example network based geo location sources such as servers websites network nodes and the like can provide map data. The map data can be used to locate checkpoints at known geo location fixes. These checkpoints and their corresponding geo location fixes can be used to compare with the GPS data produced by a GPS receiver positioned at the checkpoint. Additionally other checkpoints or locations with a known geo location can be used as geo location reference points. For example a gas station a city landmark or a WiFi hotspot with a known geo location can be used as a reference checkpoint. Thus in an example embodiment a variety of sources of geo location data can be accessed and used in the various layers of the cloud based vehicle information and control ecosystem .

Referring now to the diagram illustrates the geo location aggregation engine of an example embodiment. The geo location aggregation engine receives input from a plurality of geo location data collectors . The geo location data collectors are configured to collect geo location data from a variety of geo location data sources in the various layers of the cloud based vehicle information and control ecosystem . For example a first data collector is configured to obtain geo location data from one or more UPS receivers installed in a vehicle. Using the platform layer and the platform system described above the first data collector can access an ECU corresponding to the in vehicle UPS receiver via the CAN bus and retrieve GPS and timing data generated therein. The first data collector can be configured to periodically retrieve the in vehicle GPS data and process and or store the retrieved data. The first data collector and each of data collectors can be implemented as a software or firmware module with processing logic embedded therein for performing the retrieval of the GPS and timing data or other geo location data or reliability data from one or more GPS receivers or other geo location devices installed in a vehicle.

Referring again to and the geo location data collectors can be implemented at any layer of the cloud based vehicle information and control ecosystem . For example the first data collector can be implemented as an integrated component of platform system or as part of an in vehicle platform application to collect GPS data from an in vehicle GPS receiver. The first data collector can also collect reliability data from the in vehicle GPS receiver. Reliability data refers to data indicative of the reliability of the GPS data such as signal strength error counts type of GPS receiver and the like. The collected GPS data and reliability data can be provided or made available to any other component or subsystem at the platform layer. A second data collector can be implemented as an integrated component of platform system or as part of an in vehicle platform application to collect dead reckoning data and related reliability data from in vehicle sensors and or in vehicle dead reckoning data subsystems. The collected dead reckoning data and reliability data can also be provided or made available to any other component or subsystem at the platform layer.

Similarly the first data collector and or the second data collector can be implemented as an integrated component of map subsystem of the user interface server at the framework layer of the cloud based vehicle information and control ecosystem . The first data collector and or the second data collector can also be implemented in the framework layer as a part of a mobile device application . The first data collector and or the second data collector can be implemented in the framework layer to collect GPS data and or dead reckoning data and related reliability data from an in vehicle GPS receiver or in vehicle dead reckoning subsystem. Data communications as described above can be used to transfer the data between the platform and framework layers. The collected GPS data and or dead reckoning data and related reliability data can be provided or made available to any other component or subsystem at the framework layer. In this manner the user interface server and or a mobile device app in the framework layer can get access to GPS data and or dead reckoning data and related reliability data generated by an in vehicle GPS receiver in vehicle sensors and or dead reckoning data subsystems.

Moreover the first data collector and or the second data collector can also be implemented as an integrated component of map subsystem of the vehicle information and control system or an integrated component of map subsystem of the user interface server at the application layer of the cloud based vehicle information and control ecosystem . The first data collector and or the second data collector can also be implemented in the application layer as a part of a content source application . The first data collector and or the second data collector can be implemented in the application layer to collect GPS data and or dead reckoning data and related reliability data from an in vehicle GPS receiver or in vehicle dead reckoning subsystem. Data communications as described above can be used to transfer the data between the platform framework and application layers. The collected GPS data and or dead reckoning data and related reliability data can be provided or made available to any other component or subsystem at the application layer. In this manner the vehicle information and control system the user interface server and or content sources in the application layer can get access to GPS data and or dead reckoning data and related reliability data generated by an in vehicle GPS receiver in vehicle sensors and or dead reckoning data subsystems.

Thus as described herein the first data collector and or the second data collector can be implemented at any layer of the cloud based vehicle information and control ecosystem to enable any component or subsystem at any layer to obtain access to GPS data and or dead reckoning data and related reliability data generated or obtained from an in vehicle GPS receiver and or in vehicle dead reckoning subsystem. As described above data communications between layers of the cloud based vehicle information and control ecosystem can be used to convey the GPS data and or dead reckoning data and related reliability data to other components subsystems and or layers of ecosystem .

Similarly a third data collector can be implemented as an integrated component of map subsystem of the user interface server at the framework layer of the cloud based vehicle information and control ecosystem . The third data collector can also be implemented in the framework layer as a part of a mobile device application . The third data collector can collect GPS data or other geo location information and related reliability data from a GPS receiver or other geo location sensing device resident in the mobile device . The GPS data and related reliability data obtained from the mobile device is generated by a different GPS receiver or other geo location sensing device as compared to the GPS data obtained from an in vehicle GPS receiver via a corresponding ECU. As such the geo location data and related reliability data generated or obtained by the third data collector originates from a different source i.e. a mobile device than the data generated by the first data collector i.e. an in vehicle GPS receiver connected to an ECU . The GPS data and reliability data collected by the third data collector can be provided or made available to any other component or subsystem at the framework layer.

The third data collector can also be implemented as an integrated component of platform system or as part of an in vehicle platform application to collect GPS data and related reliability data from a GPS receiver or other goo location sensing device resident in the mobile device . Data communications as described above can be used to transfer the data between the platform and framework layers. The collected GPS data and related reliability data from the mobile device can be provided or made available to any other component or subsystem at the framework or platform layers. In this manner the platform system in the platform layer can get access to GPS data and related reliability data generated by a mobile device resident GPS receiver.

Moreover the third data collector can also be implemented as an integrated component of map subsystem of the vehicle information and control system or an integrated component of map subsystem of the user interface server at the application layer of the cloud based vehicle information and control ecosystem . The third data collector can also be implemented in the application layer as a part of a content source application . The third data collector can be implemented in the application layer to collect GPS data and related reliability data from a mobile device resident GPS receiver. Data communications as described above can be used to transfer the data between the platform framework and application layers. The collected GPS data and related reliability data can be provided or made available to any other component or subsystem at the application layer. In this manner the vehicle information and control system the user interface server and or content sources in the application layer can get access to GPS data and related reliability data generated by a mobile device resident GPS receiver.

Thus as described herein the third data collector can be implemented at any layer of the cloud based vehicle information and control ecosystem to enable any component or subsystem at any layer to obtain access to GPS data and related reliability data generated or obtained from a mobile device resident GPS receiver. As described above data communications between layers of the cloud based vehicle information and control ecosystem can be used to convey the GPS data and related reliability data to other components or subsystems of ecosystem .

Referring still to a fourth data collector can be implemented as integrated component of map subsystem of the vehicle information and control system or an integrated component of map subsystem of the user interface server at the application layer of the cloud based vehicle information and control ecosystem . The fourth data collector can also be implemented in the application layer as a part of a content source application . The fourth data collector can be configured to generate or obtain geo location data and or geo location reliability data from one or more content sources or other network based geo location data sources. For example network based geo location data can include map data GPS receiver reliability data satellite status information GPS service data weather information or a variety of other information that may bear on the accuracy or predictability of the geo location fixes generated by other components in the ecosystem . Additionally network based geo location data sources can be deployed at various locations along roadways on adjacent buildings along railroad tracks or other locations proximate to passing vehicles. In some cases these network based geo location data sources can act as checkpoints to mark the passage or proximity of passing vehicles. Because the geo location of the checkpoints can be precisely determined the location of a particular vehicle can be precisely determined as the vehicle passes or is proximate to the checkpoint at a particular moment in time. The network based geo location data source can use network to convey the vehicle location and timing e.g. the vehicle geo location based on a network based geo location data source to other network connected devices in the application layer. In this manner the vehicle information and control system the user interface server and or other content sources can get access to GPS data and or geo location reliability data generated or obtained by a network based geo location data source via data communications within the application layer. Note that the vehicle geo location fix based on a network based geo location data source may be different than either the geo location of the vehicle based on an in vehicle GPS receiver connected to an ECU or the geo location of the vehicle based on a GPS receiver in a mobile device of an occupant of the vehicle.

The fourth data collector can also be implemented as an integrated component of platform system or as part of an in vehicle platform application to collect go location data and or geo location reliability data from one or more content sources and or other network based geo location data sources. Data communications as described above can be used to transfer the data between the platform framework and application layers. The collected GPS data and related reliability data from the network based geo location data sources can be provided or made available to any other component or subsystem at the application or platform layers. In this manner the platform system in the platform layer can get access to GPS data and related reliability data generated by network based geo location data sources.

Similarly the fourth data collector can be implemented as an integrated component of map subsystem of the user interface server at the framework layer of the cloud based vehicle information and control ecosystem . The fourth data collector can also be implemented in the framework layer as a part of a mobile device application . The fourth data collector can be implemented in the framework layer to collect geo location data and or geo location reliability data from one or more content sources and or other network based geo location data sources. Data communications as described above can be used to transfer the data between the application and framework layers. The collected geo location data and or geo location reliability data can be provided or made available to any other component or subsystem at the framework layer. In this manner the user interface server and or a mobile device app in the framework layer can get access to GPS data and related reliability data generated by network based geo location data sources.

Finally a fifth data collector can be provided in a particular embodiment. Again the fifth data collector can be implemented in components of the platform framework or application layers as described above. The fifth data collector can be implemented in any of the ecosystem layers to collect explicitly provided geo location information from a user. For example a user operating a vehicle in which a platform system includes a fifth data collector can use provided user interfaces to explicitly specify a geo location of the vehicle at a particular moment. Similarly a user operating a vehicle in which an occupant has a mobile device with a mobile app that includes a fifth data collector can use mobile app provided user interfaces to explicitly specify a geo location of the vehicle at a particular moment. A user in data connection with a content source and or other network based geo location data source that includes a fifth data collector can use provided user interfaces to explicitly specify a geo location of a vehicle at a particular moment. The fifth data collector can be useful for explicitly calibrating or initializing a particular GPS device geo location sensing device or network based geo location data source. Thus as described above various types of geo location data collectors can be implemented at any layer of the cloud based vehicle information and control ecosystem . Data communications between layers of the ecosystem can be used to convey the GPS data or other geo location information and related reliability data to other components or subsystems of ecosystem . The GIPS data or other geo location information and related reliability data can thereby be conveyed as input to the geo location aggregation engine shown in .

It will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that a variety of other geo location data collectors can be used to gather geo location data in a variety of ways. For example cell tower triangulation of signals from a mobile device can be used to determine a geo location of the mobile device . If the mobile device is with an occupant of a vehicle the geo location of the mobile device can also define the geo location of the vehicle . Cell tower triangulation of signals from a mobile device can be performed or assisted by network resources that are accessible through the layers of the cloud based vehicle information and control ecosystem as described herein. Additionally the other gee location data collectors can include a WiFi WAP proximity detector for using WiFi signals from a mobile device to determine a geo location of the mobile device as described above. Again the geo location determination of the mobile device based on WiFi proximity can be performed or assisted by network resources that are accessible through the layers of the cloud based vehicle information and control ecosystem as described herein. As described above techniques for determining the location of a mobile device based on a mobile device resident GPS receiver cell tower triangulation or WiFi WAP proximity are well known to those of ordinary skill in the art. Any of these techniques for determining a geo location fix can be used and provided as a geo location data collector .

Referring again to the geo location aggregation engine can receive geo location data and related reliability data from a variety of geo location data collectors and along with the map data set and configuration data set produce a resulting geo location fix based on aggregated geo location data from a plurality of sources. For example the geo location aggregation engine can receive a GPS geo location fix for a particular vehicle at a particular moment in time from an in vehicle GPS receiver connected to an ECU via a first data collector . Similarly the geo location aggregation engine can also receive dead reckoning data for the particular vehicle at the particular moment in time from a dead reckoning subsystem of the vehicle via a second data collector . The geo location aggregation engine can also receive a GPS geo location fix for the particular vehicle at the particular moment in time from GPS receiver in a mobile device of an occupant of the vehicle via a third data collector . The geo location aggregation engine can also receive a geo location fix for the particular vehicle based on cell tower triangulation or WiFi WAP proximity detection as described above. The geo location aggregation engine can also receive a CPS geo location fix for the particular vehicle at the particular moment in time from a network based geo location data source via a fourth data collector . Finally the geo location aggregation engine can receive a GPS geo location fix for the particular vehicle at the particular moment in time from an explicit user data entry via a fifth data collector . As described in more detail below the geo location aggregation engine can select the best geo location fix or combine a plurality of geo location fixes to produce a resulting geo location fix. This geo location fix can be rendered more accurately based on input from multiple sources and the connected intelligence of multiple resources at each of the layers of the cloud based vehicle information and control ecosystem .

As shown in the geo location aggregation engine can receive input from a map data set a data collector reliability data set and a configuration data set . The map data set includes conventional map data such as a scaled two dimensional or three dimensional arrangement of natural and man made landmarks in a particular geographical location. Typically the specific geo location of landmarks and other objects on the map can be determined from the map data set . Additionally the map data can be augmented to include information related to regions or geographical locations where GPS service may be intermittent or unavailable. For example locations of tunnels deep canyons mountains tall buildings etc. where GPS signals may be blocked can be identified in regional interference information of the map data set . The data collector reliability data set can include the reliability data obtained from each of the geo location data sources as described above. This reliability data can be used to ascertain the reliability of geo location data provided by a particular geo location data source. The data collector reliability data set can also include historical data that specifies the geo location data and reliability data provided by a particular geo location data source for a past period of time. The historical data can be used to identify trends over time in the data produced by a particular geo location data source. The data collector reliability data set can also include device data and service data that specify any interruptions or degradations that may be occurring with respect to particular geo location data sources or system wide geo location service providers. The data collector reliability data set can also include a set of weighted values that define a confidence level that a geo location service provider can apply to particular geo location data sources or system wide geo location service providers. The weighted values can be used to bias the geo location aggregation engine for or against particular geo location data sources. Finally the configuration data set can be used to define configuration values to specify the manner in which a system operator wants the geo location aggregation engine to operate. For example the configuration data set can be used to configure the weighted values or to specify the type of geo location action processor the geo location aggregation engine should use for processing the geo location collected by the geo location data collectors .

As described above the geo location aggregation engine can receive geo location data and related reliability data from a variety of geo location data collectors . As described the geo location aggregation engine can receive 1 a GPS geo location fix for a particular vehicle at a particular moment in time from an in vehicle GPS receiver connected to an ECU 2 dead reckoning data for the particular vehicle at the particular moment in time from a dead reckoning subsystem of the vehicle 3 a GPS geo location fix for the particular vehicle at the particular moment in time from GPS receiver in a mobile device of an occupant of the vehicle 4 a GPS geo location fix for the particular vehicle at the particular moment in time from a network based geo location data source and 5 a GPS geo location fix for the particular vehicle at the particular moment in time from an explicit user data entry. Given this geo location data and related reliability data the geo location aggregation engine can perform a variety of configurable processing operations and related actions. For example the geo location aggregation engine can use a first action processor to identify a best geo location fix from the geo location data received from the geo location data collectors . The best geo location fix can be a geo location fix from one of the geo location data collectors that may have the highest related reliability data from the data collector reliability data set or that may have a high level of accuracy based on map data set . For example the best geo location fix can represent a geo location fix from a geo location data source that has reported no errors or few errors has a historical data trend that is not erratic or intermittent is a type of geo location data source known to be reliable and has been weighted by a system operator in a manner indicating a high level of confidence in the geo location data source. Additionally the first action processor can refer to the map data set to determine if the geo location fix being processed represents a location within a regional interference area. If so the geo location fix may be less accurate or less reliable as GPS receivers in the regional interference area may report errant or erratic geo location data. In this case the first action processor can prioritize or re prioritize the geo location data collectors to favor geo location data collectors that may be more accurate in the regional interference area and discount the data received from the goo location data collectors that may be sensitive to regional interference. As a result the first action processor can use map data to customize or modify the manner in which the best geo location fix is calculated based on geographical features on the map. Similarly the first action processor can prioritize or re prioritize the geo location data collectors to favor geo location data collectors that may be more accurate within particular timeframes. For example some geo location data collectors may be more accurate at night or on weekends when there is less ambient interference. As a result the first action processor can use time and date data to customize or modify the manner in which the best geo location fix is calculated based on temporal factors. Thus using a variety of factors as described above the first action processor can identify and select a best geo location fix from a plurality of geo location fixes received from the geo location data collectors . The best geo location fix represents a resulting geo location fix produced by the geo location aggregation engine .

The first action processor and each of geo location action processors can be implemented as a software or firmware module with processing logic embedded therein for performing processing operations on the GPS and timing data or other geo location data or reliability data received from one or more GPS receivers or geo location data sources.

Alternatively or in combination the geo location aggregation engine can use a second action processor to determine an average or composite geo location fix from the geo location data received from the geo location data collectors . The composite geo location fix can be a combined geo location fix from a plurality of the geo location fixes provided by a plurality of the geo location data collectors . Instead of selecting a single best geo location fix as the first action processor does the second action processor produces a combination of the plurality of the geo location fixes. For example the second action processor can compute an average or an interpolation of the input plurality of the geo location fixes. In one embodiment the best two or more geo location fixes can be selected based on the reliability data as described above. Then the selected best geo location fixes can be interpolated to produce a composite geo location fix. In another embodiment the weighted values corresponding to each geo location data source can be used in the interpolation to shift the composite geo location fix toward the geo location fixes with the highest weighted values wherein the highest weighted values correspond to a higher level of confidence in the geo location produced by a particular geo location data source. As described above the second action processor can use map data to customize or modify the manner in which the composite geo location fix is calculated based on geographical features on the map. Moreover the second action processor can use time and date data to customize or modify the manner in which the composite geo location fix is calculated based on temporal factors. In this manner the second action processor can compute a composite geo location fix from a plurality of geo location fixes. The composite geo location fix represents a resulting geo location fix produced by the geo location aggregation engine . It will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art upon reading this disclosure that a variety of techniques can be used to compute a combined averaged or composite geo location fix from a plurality of geo location fixes.

Alternatively or in combination the geo location aggregation engine can also use a third action processor to report errors that may have been received in the goo location data received from the geo location data collectors . For example a geo location fix received from a particular geo location source may be significantly different e.g. outside a configurable range than the geo location fix received from other geo location sources. These geo location differentials can be tracked over time using the historical data in reliability data set . The third action processor operating under a configurable rule set can determine that the particular geo location source is producing errant or erratic geo location data given the significantly different geo location fix or a history of errant geo location fixes provided by the particular geo location source. In this case the third action processor can report the error to other processing components subsystems or layers of the ecosystem . Additionally the third action processor can adjust the reliability data in the data collector reliability data set to reflect the errant geo location fixes provided by the particular geo location source.

Alternatively or in combination the geo location aggregation engine can also use a fourth action processor to perform a re calibration operation on a particular geo location data source. As described above the fourth action processor can identify a particular goo location source that is producing errant geo location fixes. The fourth action processor can also identify a particular geo location source that is not producing data at all. In these cases the fourth action processor can cause data transmissions through ecosystem to re calibrate re configure or reset the particular geo location source. For example techniques are well known for re calibrating a GPS receiver. Similar operations can be performed on other types of geo location sources to induce the devices to start or continue producing accurate geo location fixes.

As with the geo location data collectors described above the geo location aggregation engine can be implemented at any layer of the cloud based vehicle information and control ecosystem . For example the geo location aggregation engine can be implemented as an integrated component of platform system or as part of an in vehicle platform application to aggregate geo location data received from a plurality of geo location data collectors . Similarly the geo location aggregation engine can be implemented as an integrated component of map subsystem of the user interface server or as a part of a mobile device application at the framework layer of the cloud based vehicle information and control ecosystem . Moreover the geo location aggregation engine can be implemented as an integrated component of map subsystem of the vehicle information and control system or an integrated component of map subsystem of the user interface server at the application layer of the cloud based vehicle information and control ecosystem . The geo location aggregation engine can also be implemented in the application layer as a part of a content source application . Because the geo location data collectors described above can be implemented at any layer of the ecosystem the geo location aggregation engine can be implemented at any layer of the ecosystem and can have access to the geo location data provided by the geo location data collectors at any layer. Thus a system and method for obtaining geographical location data from multiple sources and aggregating the geographical location data is disclosed.

The example computer system includes a data processor e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU or both a main memory and a static memory which communicate with each other via a bus . The computer system may further include a video display unit e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD or a cathode ray tube CRT . The computer system also includes an input device e.g. a keyboard a cursor control device e.g. a mouse a disk drive unit a signal generation device e.g. a speaker and a network interface device .

The disk drive unit includes a non transitory machine readable medium on which is stored one or more sets of instructions e.g. software embodying any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The instructions may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory the static memory and or within the processor during execution thereof by the computer system . The main memory and the processor also may constitute machine readable media. The instructions may further be transmitted or received over a network via the network interface device . While the machine readable medium is shown in an example embodiment to be a single medium the term machine readable medium should be taken to include a single non transitory medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more sets of instructions. The term machine readable medium can also be taken to include any non transitory medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying a set of instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the various embodiments or that is capable of storing encoding or carrying data structures utilized by or associated with such a set of instructions. The term machine readable medium can accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories optical media and magnetic media.

The Abstract of the Disclosure is provided to comply with 37 C.F.R. 1.72 b requiring an abstract that will allow the reader to quickly ascertain the nature of the technical disclosure. It is submitted with the understanding that it will not be used to interpret or limit the scope or meaning of the claims. In addition in the foregoing Detailed Description it can be seen that various features are grouped together in a single embodiment for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure. This method of disclosure is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed embodiments require more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather as the following claims reflect inventive subject matter lies in less than all features of a single disclosed embodiment. Thus the following claims are hereby incorporated into the Detailed Description with each claim standing on its own as a separate embodiment.

