---

title: System and method for extending a biometric framework
abstract: In one embodiment, a method includes providing a biometric framework in a native environment thereof. The biometric framework includes a biometric service, a biometric device interface (BDI), and a BDI driver. The biometric service includes a biometric unit relative to a biometric sensor. The biometric unit includes a sensor adapter, an engine adapter, and a storage adapter. The method further includes extending the biometric framework to store biometric templates in a secondary database maintained in a secondary location. The extending includes extending the storage adapter to support storage in the secondary location.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09053048&OS=09053048&RS=09053048
owner: Dell Products L.P.
number: 09053048
owner_city: Round Rock
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121214
---
The present invention relates generally to biometric storage and access and more particularly but not by way of limitation to systems and methods for extending a biometric framework.

Windows Biometric Framework WBF as introduced in Windows 7 and 8 operating systems provides a set of components that standardizes the use of fingerprint biometric devices. Microsoft and Windows are either registered trademarks or trademarks of Microsoft Corporation in the United States and or other countries. As part of its functionality WBF maintains a biometric database of fingerprint biometric templates for example on a computer hard drive for access in its native environment e.g. Windows 7 or 8 operating system . The biometric database however is not necessarily accessible outside of WBF s native environment. For example the computer hard drive may be encrypted employ an incompatible file structure or not be connected at a given point in time.

Many situations exist in which it would be advantageous to access the biometric database outside of WBF s native environment. For example it may be desirous to perform biometric authentication in a pre boot environment or in a secondary operating system environment such as for example Linux. Traditional solutions entail developing a complete stack of software to support each biometric sensor so that the biometric sensor can maintain biometric storage separate and apart from WBF. Therefore to implement such solutions it is necessary to have specific knowledge of each driver and each specific implementation used by biometric device vendors. Further the use of an additional stack of software that accesses and stores biometric templates introduces new security risks. Generally there is not a defined common method for all devices to store biometric templates and other secret data for access outside of a biometric framework s native environment e.g. Windows 7 or 8 operating system .

Moreover as the value and use of information continues to increase individuals and businesses seek additional ways to process and store information. One option available to users is information handling systems. An information handling system generally processes compiles stores and or communicates information or data for business personal or other purposes thereby allowing users to take advantage of the value of the information. Because technology and information handling needs and requirements vary between different users or applications information handling systems may also vary regarding what information is handled how the information is handled how much information is processed stored or communicated and how quickly and efficiently the information may be processed stored or communicated. The variations in information handling systems allow for information handling systems to be general or configured for a specific user or specific use such as financial transaction processing airline reservations enterprise data storage or global communications. In addition information handling systems may include a variety of hardware and software components that may be configured to process store and communicate information and may include one or more computer systems data storage systems and networking systems.

In one embodiment a method includes on an information handling system providing a biometric framework in a native environment thereof. The biometric framework includes a biometric service a biometric device interface BDI and a BDI driver. The biometric service includes a biometric unit relative to a biometric sensor. The biometric unit includes a sensor adapter an engine adapter and a storage adapter. The method further includes on the information handling system extending the biometric framework to store biometric templates in a secondary database maintained in a secondary location. The extending includes extending the storage adapter to support storage in the secondary location.

In one embodiment an information handling system includes a processing unit. The processing unit is operable to provide a biometric framework in a native environment thereof. The biometric framework includes a biometric service a biometric device interface BDI and a BDI driver. The biometric service includes a biometric unit relative to a biometric sensor. The biometric unit includes a sensor adapter an engine adapter and a storage adapter. The processing unit is further operable to extend the biometric framework to store biometric templates in a secondary database maintained in a secondary location. The extension includes extending the storage adapter to support storage in the secondary location.

In one embodiment a computer program product includes a computer usable medium having computer readable program code embodied therein. The computer readable program code is adapted to be executed to implement a method. The method includes providing a biometric framework in a native environment thereof. The biometric framework includes a biometric service a biometric device interface BDI and a BDI driver. The biometric service includes a biometric unit relative to a biometric sensor. The biometric unit includes a sensor adapter an engine adapter and a storage adapter. The method further includes extending the biometric framework to store biometric templates in a secondary database maintained in a secondary location. The extending includes extending the storage adapter to support storage in the secondary location.

In various embodiments access to biometric templates outside of a biometric framework s native environment can be facilitated by extending the biometric framework as described herein. For purposes of this patent application a biometric sensor refers to a device operable to obtain biometric samples. The biometric sample can be for example a captured image of a fingerprint. A biometric template as used herein refers to a digital reference of distinct characteristics i.e. biometric factors that have been extracted from a biometric sample. For example the biometric templates can be used as a basis for biometric authentication. A biometric application as used herein refers to a software application that provides for management and or utilization of biometric templates. A biometric framework as used herein refers to a platform and set of interfaces for managing and servicing biometric sensors. For purposes of this patent application a native operating system environment periodically referenced herein as a native environment refers to an operating environment in which a given biometric framework is designed to operate.

For purposes of this disclosure an information handling system may include any instrumentality or aggregate of instrumentalities operable to compute calculate determine classify process transmit receive retrieve originate switch store display communicate manifest detect record reproduce handle or utilize any form of information intelligence or data for business scientific control or other purposes. For example an information handling system may be a personal computer e.g. desktop or laptop tablet computer mobile device e.g. personal digital assistant PDA or smart phone server e.g. blade server or rack server a network storage device or any other suitable device and may vary in size shape performance functionality and price. The information handling system may include random access memory RAM one or more processing resources such as a central processing unit CPU or hardware or software control logic ROM and or other types of nonvolatile memory. Additional components of the information handling system may include one or more disk drives one or more network ports for communicating with external devices as well as various input and output I O devices such as a keyboard a mouse touchscreen and or a video display. The information handling system may also include one or more buses operable to transmit communications between the various hardware components.

The biometric API exposes a set of standard functionality of biometric sensors to biometric applications. The set of standard functionality is typically exposed within a native operating system environment such as for example an environment provided by a Windows 7 or 8 operating system. The sensor adapter the engine adapter and the storage adapter inter communicate via the biometric service . In a typical embodiment the sensor adapter performs capture operations for purposes of obtaining biometric samples. The engine adapter performs processing on the biometric samples such as for example feature extraction and generates biometric templates. In addition the engine adapter matches biometric samples to biometric templates. The storage adapter stores manages and retrieves biometric templates from storage. In a typical embodiment instances of the sensor adapter the engine adapter and the storage adapter relative to a given biometric sensor collectively form a biometric unit. The biometric unit is a software object that represents the given biometric sensor. The WBDI provides a common interface that the WBDI driver uses to expose the given biometric sensor through the biometric service .

In a typical embodiment a limitation of the biometric framework without extension is that the biometric framework only stores biometric templates in a biometric database on a given information handling system. In a typical embodiment the storage API of the extended WBDI can be used to additionally store biometric templates in a secondary location such as for example flash memory on a given biometric sensor. As described in greater detail with respect to the extended storage adapter extends the storage adapter to call the storage API and request that the biometric templates be stored in the secondary location. The extended WBDI driver extends the WBDI driver to receive calls from the storage API and store the biometric templates in the secondary location as requested. Exemplary operation will be described with respect to .

The extended biometric framework includes a biometric API a biometric service an extended WBDI and an extended WBDI driver . The biometric service includes a sensor adapter an engine adapter and an extended storage adapter that collectively form a biometric unit relative to the biometric sensor . It should be appreciated that in various embodiments the biometric service can include a plurality of biometric units for a plurality of biometric sensors. However for simplicity of description and illustration the biometric service is depicted as only including the biometric unit for the biometric sensor .

The biometric sensor can be for example a fingerprint reader. As shown the biometric sensor includes flash memory on which a sensor database is stored. In various embodiments rather than be part of the information handling system as illustrated the biometric sensor can be external to the information handling system and communicably coupled thereto via a communication standard such as for example Universal Serial Bus USB .

In a typical embodiment the extended biometric framework has been extended as described with respect to the biometric framework of and as a result enables additional functionality. Specifically this additional functionality is enabled by the extended storage adapter the storage API and the extended WBDI driver . Traditionally a non extended storage adapter as is provided by WBF stores all biometric templates in a central location such as for example the biometric database . The biometric templates can be stored as they are enrolled. The biometric database can be resident for example on a given information handling system s hard drive. The biometric database however is not necessarily accessible outside the native operating system environment . As described below the extended storage adapter the extended WBDI and the extended WBDI driver can rectify this deficiency.

In particular the extended WBDI has been extended by the addition of a storage API . The extended storage adapter and the extended WBDI driver have each been extended to interface with the storage API . The storage API specifies functions data structures object classes and or variables related to storing biometric templates in the sensor database . The extended storage adapter has been extended to call the storage API whenever biometric templates are to be stored. The extended WBDI driver has been extended to receive calls made via the storage API and in response store biometric templates in the sensor database as instructed.

For example after creation of a new biometric template by the engine adapter the extended storage adapter can store the new biometric template in the biometric database per WBF standard procedure and in addition call the storage API so that the new biometric template is also stored in the sensor database . In that way the extended storage adapter enables concurrent storage of the new biometric template in multiple locations the biometric database and the sensor database . In a typical embodiment each biometric template is stored in the sensor database such that the biometric template is accessible on a per user basis.

Further the storage API logically abstracts how the biometric templates are stored in the sensor database from the extended storage adapter . Consequently the extended storage adapter need not directly interface with either the extended WBDI driver or the biometric sensor . In a typical embodiment this exemplary advantage eliminates any need to define a new storage adapter for each biometric unit such as for example the biometric unit . Rather the extended storage adapter can be common across all biometric units. In a typical embodiment only the extended WBDI driver is specific to the biometric unit . Table 1 below lists exemplary functions that can be included as part of the storage API .

In a typical embodiment the sensor database stores a database record for each biometric template. In various embodiments each database record can be identical to a corresponding database record in the biometric database . In various other embodiments each database record can include a subset of data from the biometric database such as for example identity values subfactor values and template data. The identity values can be for example a globally unique identifier GUID associated with a biometric template. The subfactor values can be for example qualifying characteristics that can be used to further define a biometric factor e.g. which finger a given fingerprint came from . The template data can be for example any data or metadata associated with the given biometric template. Each database record of the sensor database can also include additional data that is not present in the biometric database . For example the database records can include secret data that is used for security purposes in a non native environment such as for example a pre boot environment. The secret data can be for example a shared secret that is used to authenticate either a user or a given biometric application in the non native environment.

One of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate numerous advantages of the principles outlined above. For example the sensor database can serve as a backup of a portion of the biometric database relating to the biometric unit . Should a need arise the biometric database can be restored from the sensor database . In similar fashion the sensor database can be used to migrate biometric templates to another environment. In that way a new biometric database similar to the biometric database could be created based on the sensor database .

At step a biometric application receives a request from a user to enroll a biometric template by providing a biometric sample e.g. via a finger swipe . From step the process proceeds to step . At step the biometric application calls a sensor adapter of the extended biometric framework so that the biometric sample can be acquired. In various embodiments multiple biometric samples may be acquired. In a typical embodiment the biometric application calls the sensor adapter via a biometric API such as for example the biometric API of . From step the process proceeds to step .

At step the sensor adapter acquires a biometric sample from the user. In a typical embodiment the sensor adapter accomplishes the acquisition by instructing the biometric sensor to capture the biometric sample. For example the sensor adapter can so instruct the biometric sensor via an extended WBDI and an extended WBDI driver such as for example the extended WBDI and the extended WBDI driver respectively of . From step the process proceeds to step .

At step the sensor adapter passes the biometric sample to the engine adapter. From step the process proceeds to step . At step the engine adapter creates the biometric template. From step the process proceeds to step . At step the engine adapter passes the biometric template to the extended storage adapter. From step the process proceeds to step . At step the extended storage adapter stores the biometric template in a biometric database such as for example the biometric database of . From step the process proceeds to step .

At step the extended storage adapter calls a storage API such as for example the storage API of so that the biometric template can be stored on flash memory of the biometric sensor. From step the process proceeds to step . At step the extended WBDI driver receives the biometric template via the call to the storage API. From step the process proceeds to step . At step the extended WBDI driver stores the biometric template in a sensor database within the biometric sensor s flash memory. After step the process ends.

The biometric application communicates with a sensor driver for a biometric sensor . The biometric sensor includes a sensor database in its flash memory . In a typical embodiment the sensor database includes biometric templates that have been stored therein for example as described with respect to . However in contrast to a biometric database maintained by non extended WBF e.g. the biometric database of the sensor database is additionally accessible in the non native environment by the biometric application . In operation the biometric application communicates with the sensor driver in order to instruct the biometric sensor to perform a requested action such as for example biometric verification. An example will be described with respect to .

At step the biometric application loads a sensor driver for a biometric sensor. For example the sensor driver and the biometric sensor can operate as described with respect to the sensor driver and the biometric sensor respectively of . In a typical embodiment the biometric sensor maintains a sensor database such as for example the sensor database in its flash memory. From step the process proceeds to step . At step the biometric application prompts a user to provide a candidate template. For example the biometric application may ask the user to swipe their finger. From step the process proceeds to step . At step the sensor driver acquires the candidate template from the biometric sensor. From step the process proceeds to step .

At step the biometric application instructs the sensor driver to match the candidate template with a biometric template of the sensor database. From step the process proceeds to step . At step the sensor driver performs a comparison of the biometric template with the biometric templates of the sensor database. From step the process proceeds to step . At step it is determined whether a match with the candidate template has been identified. If not the process proceeds to step and ends in failure. If it is determined at step that a match with the candidate template has been identified the process proceeds to step . At step the sensor driver returns metadata associated with a matched template to the biometric application. From step the process proceeds to step . At step the user is provided access to the requested resource. From step the process proceeds to step . At step the process ends.

It should be appreciated that the inventive principles outlined above are not limited to storage in a sensor database on a biometric sensor. Rather in various embodiments the inventive principles described above can be leveraged to store biometric templates any secondary location such as for example another hard drive an embedded controller BIOS and the like. An example will be described with respect to below.

The extended biometric framework includes a biometric API a biometric service and a receiver interface . The biometric service includes a sensor adapter an engine adapter and an extended storage adapter that collectively form a biometric unit relative to the biometric sensor. It should be appreciated that in various embodiments the biometric service can include a plurality of biometric units for a plurality of biometric sensors. However for simplicity of description and illustration the biometric service is depicted as only including the biometric unit for the biometric sensor.

As shown the secondary location includes memory on which a secondary database is stored. The secondary database can be for example a sensor database as described with respect to . The sensor database can also be for example a database on a hard drive embedded controller in BIOS or the like. In various embodiments rather than be part of the information handling system as illustrated the secondary location can be external to the information handling system and communicably coupled thereto via a communication standard such as for example Universal Serial Bus USB .

In a typical embodiment the extended biometric framework has been extended as described with respect to the biometric framework of and the extended biometric framework of and as a result enables additional functionality as described with respect to . Specifically this additional functionality is enabled by the extended storage adapter a storage API and the receiver interface . In particular the storage API has been added to the extended biometric framework . In addition the extended storage adapter has been extended to interface with the storage API. Further the receiver interface has been added and disposed between the storage API and the secondary location

In various embodiments the receiver interface can be an extended WBDI driver such as for example the extended WBDI driver of . In various embodiments in which the secondary location does not correspond to a biometric sensor the receiver interface can be an interface that is operable to receive calls from the storage API and in that way abstract particulars of the secondary location from the storage API . As described with respect to the storage API of the storage API specifies functions data structures object classes and or variables related to storing biometric templates in the secondary database . The extended storage adapter has been extended to call the storage API whenever biometric templates are to be stored. The receiver interface receives calls made via the storage API and in response stores biometric templates in the secondary database as instructed.

For example after creation of a new biometric template by the engine adapter the extended storage adapter can store the new biometric template in the biometric database per WBF standard procedure and in addition call the storage API so that the new biometric template is also stored in the sensor database . In that way the extended storage adapter enables concurrent storage of the new biometric template in multiple locations the biometric database and the secondary database . In a typical embodiment each biometric template is stored in the secondary database such that the biometric template is accessible on a per user basis.

Therefore the storage API logically abstracts how the biometric templates are stored in the secondary database from the extended storage adapter . Consequently the extended storage adapter need not directly interface with either the receiver interface or the secondary location . In a typical embodiment this exemplary advantage eliminates any need to define a new storage adapter for each biometric unit such as for example the biometric unit or each secondary location such as for example the secondary location . Rather the extended storage adapter can be common across all biometric units and storage locations.

Although various embodiments of the method and apparatus of the present invention have been illustrated in the accompanying Drawings and described in the foregoing Detailed Description it will be understood that the invention is not limited to the embodiments disclosed but is capable of numerous rearrangements modifications and substitutions without departing from the spirit of the invention as set forth herein.

