---

title: Multipath communication in a network
abstract: Ways of sending data over a network over a single path or over multiple parallel paths on an as-needed basis depending upon network conditions, and/or other factors, are described. For example, if a computing device detects sufficient jitter and/or latency at one or more network interfaces, the data may be sent over two or more communication paths using two or more network interfaces.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09628373&OS=09628373&RS=09628373
owner: Comcast Cable Communications, LLC
number: 09628373
owner_city: Philadelphia
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121219
---
Most networks experience delivery problems such as jitter and latency and are designed to work within realistic expectations of such limitations. For example some networks offer quality of service QoS features that specially handle certain designated data at the expense of timely delivery of other data.

Moreover QoS may not be available in all network configurations. This is especially true when transitioning between two different network types. The transferring network may provide the sender a certain QoS level yet the transferee network may not honor the QoS level. Moreover QoS may not be helpful or efficient in certain situations such as when one or more network interfaces and or paths are congested or unavailable. In that case the network may throttle back large portions of data traffic to prioritize the QoS traffic thereby potentially impacting the network and users on a magnified scale. The foregoing and or other drawbacks are addressed by this disclosure.

Some aspects as described herein provide ways of sending data over a single path or over multiple parallel paths in one or more networks on an as needed basis depending upon network conditions and or other factors. For example if one or more computing devices detect sufficient jitter and or latency at one or more network locations such as at network interfaces of the computing device s then a computing device may choose to redundantly send two or more instances of the data over two or more communication paths which may comprise for example sending data through two or more network interfaces. One or more of the instances may be generated by for example replicating a portion of the data or the entirety of the data. The two or more network interfaces may be different types of network interfaces and the routing for each may utilize different routing information for example by utilizing one or more different routing tables one for each network interface for the same or similar data. For example the same data may be sent generally concurrently over a wireless network interface and a wired network interface. A device that receives the data may utilize e.g. process or forward only the first received instance of the data and may ignore any subsequent instances of the data. By using two or even more parallel communication paths in this way a potential effect may be to reduce the average latency and or jitter experienced between the sending and receiving devices or between any other two or more locations e.g. hops within a network. The lowest latency link may win on for example a per packet basis. Where problematic network conditions are not detected e.g. low jitter and or low latency then the sending device may choose to send the data over only a single one of the network interfaces or fewer network interfaces . Such dynamic choice of network interface utilization based on network conditions may result in a more efficient use of network interfaces than if multiple network interfaces were used all of the time regardless of network conditions.

One or more aspects described herein are directed to a method apparatus system and software for performing at least the following set of steps replicating by at least one computing device first data to generate second data. First routing information may be used to determine a first communication path based on a destination of the first data and second routing information may be used to determine a second communication path different from the first communication path based on the destination. The first data may be sent over the first communication path and the second data may be sent over the second communication path.

One or more further aspects described herein are directed to a method apparatus system and software for performing at least the following sending by at least one computing device a first instance of data to a network destination using a first network interface of the at least one computing device. The at least one computing device may determine that a congestion condition exists at the first network interface. If so then the at least one computing device may send a second instance of the data to the network destination using a second network interface different from the first network interface.

One or more further aspects described herein are directed to a method apparatus system and software for performing at least the following detecting by at least one computing device a condition of at least a portion of a network determining a quantity of network interfaces based on the detected condition and using the determined quantity of network interfaces to send data.

The other network may include any one or more networks such as but not limited to the Internet a cellular network a landline telephone network a wireless network a wired network a satellite network a coaxial cable network a hybrid fiber coaxial network e.g. a DOCSIS compliant network an intranet an extra net a wide area network an in home network a service provider network and or a local area network.

The gateway device may be responsible for communicating between the network containing the elements and and the other network . The communication may be in a bidirectional or unidirectional e.g. in an upstream or downstream direction . The gateway device may be or otherwise include for example any one or more computing devices modems and or other communication interfaces for communicating in a bidirectional or unidirectional manner with the other network . For example where the other network is or otherwise includes a DOCSIS network the gateway device may include a coaxial cable modem configured to communicate with a DOCSIS network. In further examples the gateway device may communicate with the other network via an Ethernet connection a universal serial bus USB connection and or a wireless connection e.g. an IEEE 802.11 wireless connection and or a cellular wireless network connection . Where the network that includes the router and the computing devices uses a particular method of communication e.g. wired and or wireless the gateway device may likewise have a corresponding one or more physical and or logical ports for communicating with those devices and e.g. one or more Ethernet connections one or more USB connections one or more coaxial cable connections an antenna with an IEEE 802.11 compatible transceiver and the like .

The router device may be physically part of the gateway device or it may be a physically separate device from the gateway device . The router device may be responsible for routing data amongst the various computing devices and or between the computing devices and the gateway device . The router device may also have one or more ports for communicating with the gateway device e.g. an Ethernet connection a USB connection and or a coaxial cable connection and with the computing devices such as via Ethernet connections USB connections coaxial cable connections such as in the case of a MoCA network and or a wireless connection.

Each of the computing devices may be or otherwise include any type of computing device such as but not limited to a desktop computer a laptop computer a tablet computer a server a handheld computer e.g. a smart phone a smart television set a digital video recorder a video game console and or a set top box. One or more of the computing device may be configured to communicate with the router device and or with one or more others of the computing device using one or more different paths modes of communication. The one or more paths may include for example a wireless path and a wired path. The wireless path may be in the form of for example an IEEE 802.11 compliant wireless connection a BLUETOOTH connection an infra red connection and or the like. The wired path may be in the form of for example an Ethernet cable connection a coaxial cable connection a USB cable connection and or the like. In the example shown in each of the computing devices has both a connection to a wired path indicated by the solid arrowed lines between the computing devices and a connection to a wireless path indicated by the broken line arrowed lines between the computing devices .

As will be described in further detail below if the computing device A for example intends to send data to the computing device B for example then the computing device A may send the data over the wired path between devices A and B and or over the wireless path between computing devices A and B. In the particular example configuration of the data may be sent by the computing device A to the computing device B through the router device over one or both of the wired and wireless paths. As another example if the computing device C intends to send data to the other network then the computing device C may send the data over one or both of the wired and wireless paths. In the particular example configuration of the data may be sent to the other network through the router device and the gateway device over one or both of the wired and wireless paths. Moreover for both of these examples any of the devices and may if desired convert a wired communication to a wireless communication and vice versa. For example the router device may receive data over a wireless path and route the data out toward the destination over a wired path and vice versa.

In any of the above examples and in any other examples discussed herein the sending computing device may or may not send the data over both paths e.g. both the wired and the wireless path simultaneously. For example the sending computing device may begin sending the data over each of the two path at the same time and or the sending computing device may send the data over both paths such that the sending over one of the paths partially or fully overlap in time with the sending of the data over the other of the paths. In other examples such as where only a single logical or physical output communication port is available to the sending computer the sending may be time multiplexed between the two paths e.g. alternating sending portions of the data on the two paths . In further examples the data may be sent in time series between the two paths. In other words the data may be partially or fully sent on a first one of the paths and then the same data may be partially or fully send on the second one of the paths.

The various computing devices may be interconnected in any topology desired. The particular topology shown in is merely an example. As can be seen some of the computing devices are coupled to others of the computing devices by two or more redundant communication paths e.g. both wired and wireless communication paths whereas others of the computing devices may be coupled to others of the computing devices by only a single communication path which may be wired or wireless . In other examples all of the computing device may be coupled to others of the computing devices by two three or more redundant communication paths. In the present example it may be that the computing devices A through E are part of a first network and that the computing devices F through K are part of a different second network. However the various computing devices may be in the same network or further subdivided into additional networks as desired. Moreover the indication of a wired or wireless communication path between the computing devices is only an example. For example the two or more communication paths between any of the computing devices may be of the same type e.g. all wired or all wireless . By way of example the two communication paths shown between the computing device A and the computing device B may alternatively both be wireless paths or both be wired paths and may utilize the same or different physical network infrastructures.

The redundant sending of the same data between devices may be implemented across all of the computing devices or only amongst one or more subsets of the computing devices . For example the redundant sending of the same data along two or more redundant communication paths may be implemented only for communications amongst the group of computing devices A B C D and E and between the computing devices G and H. Thus for example if the computing device A is sending data to the computing device E then the entire path through hops B C and D may utilize redundant communication by each of the computing devices A B C and D sending the same data e.g. two or more instances of the data through both wired and wireless communication paths. If on the other hand the computing device A is sending data to the computing device I then the path through hops B C and D may utilize the above discussed dual redundant sending of the same data. Then the computing device D may send only a single instance of the data to the computing device G. Then the computing device G may send the same data over both wired and wireless paths to the computing device H which in turn may send only a single instance of the data to the destination computing device I.

Moreover the two sets of redundant data need not be sent over the same hops. For example assume that the computing device A initiates a connection to send a data packet and its replicated instance of the data packet to the computing device I. As shown by way of example in where the paths taken by data packet instances are indicated by thicker lines the first instance of the packet may travel through the following hops A B C F G H and then I. The second instance of the same packet may travel e.g. at least partially simultaneously through the following hops A B C D G H and I. The computing device A may send the first instance of the data packet through its wireless network interface to the computing device B and the second instance of the data packet through its wired network interface to the computing device B or vice versa. Moreover any of the hops may if desired translate the type of communication path over which a given one of the data packets travel. For example the computing device B may receive one of the copies of the data packet over its wireless network interface and may forward the data packet on to the computing device C using its wired network interface or vice versa. Or the computing device B may continue using the same type of communication path for a given data packet. Thus the computing device B for example may receive a data packet over its wired network interface and resend that data packet to the computing device C over its wired network interface and the same may go for its wireless network interface . Upon receiving either of the data packet instances the computing device C may thus send one of the instances of the data packet to the computing device C via its wired or wireless network interface and the other of the instances of the data packet to the computing device F again via its wired or wireless network interface .

Eventually in the above example it may be expected that both instances of the data packet will arrive at the computing device I. As described further below the computing device I may use the first arriving instance of the data packet and ignore for example discard any later arriving instances of the data packet. Moreover such ignoring of later arriving data packet instances may be performed at any of the hops over which the data packet traverses and not necessarily at the destination. For example if any of the hops in either of the two communication paths of this example were to receive two instances or copies of a data packet that hop may only utilize e.g. forward the first arriving instance.

For example referring to when the computing device B receives the first arriving instance of the data packet from the computing device A the computing device B may forward two instances of the data packet to the computing device C e.g. over both wired and wireless communication paths and may ignore the second arriving instance of the data packet. Likewise when the computing device C receives the first arriving instance of the data packet from the computing device B the computing device C may forward three instances of the data packet two to the computing device D and one to the computing device F and may ignore the second arriving instance of the data packet. In addition the decision at any given hop whether to replicate a data packet for forwarding may be made depending upon any one or more factors such as network congestion measured and or predicted at one or more of the network interfaces of that hop. As can be seen any combination of redundant and non redundant communication paths may be provided in one or more networks and the redundant sending of the same data may be implemented in only a subset of the hops between a source and destination. Alternatively the redundant sending of the same data may be implemented through the entire path between the source and the destination. Moreover the type of sending redundant or not redundant may dynamically change over time between any two given hops depending upon whether a given hop determines that redundant sending is appropriate. In addition the type of sending redundant versus non redundant may be transparent to the user and or to the source and or destination devices depending upon which hops between the source and destination perform redundant transmission. As will be discussed further below such a determination may be based at least in part on network conditions from the point of view of the sending device or other network conditions such as network conditions remotely reported to the sending device from another device .

The software application may be or otherwise include any type of software application such as but not limited to an operating system a web browser an instant messaging software application an audio phone software application a multimedia e.g. audio and or video phone software application a server side multimedia streaming software application a client side multimedia player software application and or a gaming software application. The software application may be separate from the operating system partially or fully integrated as part of the operating system and or in the form of an independent software application or a plugin or other type of module that is designed to operate as part of another software application. Regardless of the type of software application the software application may be configured to send data to and or receive data from another device or network. For example where the software application and the other elements are implemented on the computing device A the software application may be configured to send data to and or receive data from another computing device such as from the computing device C. As another example the software application implemented on the computing device A may be configured to send data to and or receive data from another network such as the other network e.g. via the router device and or the gateway device . As yet another example where the software application and or the other elements are implemented on the gateway device the software application may desire to send data to and or receive data from the other network and or any of the other elements and or . The data may represent for example signaling data streaming multimedia e.g. audio and or video content a file a remote user interface such as an interactive menu screen or electronic program guide a website etc.

The routing module may operate as a process running between the application and network layers referring to OSI model layers . Or the routing module may be part of a software application or a separate software application. Where the routing module is part of the operating system it may be fully or partially integrated with the operating system .

In operation the software application may for example be configured to cause the computing device executing the software application to send data to another device. To do so the software application may initiate a request to send the data where the request may be directed to the operating system . The request may be in the form of for example one or more application programming interface API commands. In other examples the request may bypass the operating system or be originated by the operating system. In any of these examples the routing module may be configured to detect the request to send data. This may be done such as by using an appropriately placed software hook that is triggered by the request and or by modifying the operating system itself. Without the routing module the operating system might operate on the request directly by referring to routing information to determine how to send the data to the other device. However in this example the routing module may intervene by processing the request before the operating system completes and perhaps even before the operating system begins its own processing of the request. As will be described in further detail below the routing module may intervene by e.g. modifying and or replicating the request. For example the routing module may selectively modify the request so that the request is a request to send the data over both a wired path and a wireless path. Or the routing module may selectively replicate the request and or the data resulting in a first request to send the data over the wired path and a second request to send the data over the wireless path.

In some examples the request from the software application may not itself specify which path type e.g. wired versus wireless is to be used to send the data rather this may be determined by e.g. the operating system in response to the request. In such examples the routing module may dynamically determine or may intervene to cause the operating system to dynamically determine whether to send the data over a wired path a wireless path or both.

After the routing module has intervened and once the operating system for example has regained control of the modified request or the replicated requests the operating system may use the request to refer to the appropriate one or more sets of routing information e.g. routing tables to send the data along the correct path s . For example the routing table A may be a routing table for sending data over a particular wired path and the routing table B may be a routing table for sending data over a particular wireless path. Routing information such as routing tables of a given computing device may generally include information the immediate topology of the network as seen from the computing device. For example the routing information may associate one or more network interfaces with one or more network destinations. In some examples each set of routing information is responsible for providing such routing topology information for one of the network interfaces of a computing device. Thus if data is to be sent over two network interfaces e.g. a wired network interface and a wireless network interface then two sets of routing information e.g. two routing tables one for each of the two network interfaces may be used to route the data toward the intended destination. In many examples described herein the intended destination using both sets of routing information may be the same destination e.g. the same device and or the same network address albeit the data may be routed over two different communication paths of the network in accordance with the routing information. Also while examples are described in which a different set of routing information is used for each network interface a single shared set of routing information may be used for two or more of the network interfaces. In such a case the routing information may list one or more network interfaces for each listed destination and different portions of the set of routing information may be used for the various network interfaces.

At step the software application executing on a sending device may initiate a request to send data to one or more destinations indicated by the request. The request may indicate a particular destination such as by a network address e.g. IP address or MAC address and or other identifier associated with the destination and or a particular network connection over which to send the data. The indicated destination may be a final destination of the data and or the request may indicate one or more intermediate network hops. In the present example it will be assumed that the sending device is the computing device A and that the destination is the computing device B. Moreover while it is assumed in this example for the sake of simplified explanation that only a single destination is indicated by a given request it will be understood that a request may indicate more than one destination e.g. in a multicasting or broadcasting scenario . In such a case any modification replication and or other processing of a request may be performed as described herein for any or all of the indicated destinations. The request may merely indicate that subsequent data is to be sent or the request itself may be or otherwise include some or all of the data to be sent. Moreover the request may be or otherwise include a dedicated message or packet containing the substance of the request and or the request may be implemented as for example a header of one or more data packets that contain the data to be sent in packet payloads.

At step the operating system and or the routing module may receive the request. For example as previously discussed the routing module may intercept the request prior to any processing of the request by the operating system and or during processing by the operating system . As also previously discussed for example an appropriate software hook may be installed such that the routing module receives an instance of the request and or the request is redirected to the routing module . In either case the operating system may or may not temporarily hand control of the request over to the routing module . Where the routing module is separate from the operating system the request may be processed as described below with regard to steps by the routing module . Where the routing module is part of the operating system the request may be processed as described below with regard to steps by the operating system .

At step the routing module and or the operating system depending upon whether the routing module is separate from the operating system may determine whether routing of data indicated by the request should be modified. The outcome of the step determination may be based on one or more factors such as but not limited to information contained in the request e.g. the indicated destination of the data a priority of the data and or an indicated quality of service designation a current e.g. measured and or predicted condition e.g. feedback and or collected information about operational status available bandwidth jitter latency congestion and or experienced errors of one or more communication paths that the data might traverse a property of the data to be sent e.g. the type priority and or format of the data such as multimedia versus text and or a property of the external environment e.g. the current time of day the identity of a user associated with the data a system status . Thus under some network conditions replication may not be performed and under other network conditions replication may be performed. Also under some network conditions more replication may be performed e.g. replicate more than once to result in multiple copies of the data and under other network conditions less replication may be performed e.g. replicate once or more than once but resulting in a smaller number of copies of the data . As a further example the decision whether to replicate data and or how many times to replicate the data may depend upon a priority and or some other property of the data. For example data indicated or otherwise known to be more important may be replicated for redundant transmission while less important data may not be replicated. Regardless of the factors used to decide whether to replicate data for redundant transmission the decision whether or not to replicate data may be made dynamically and may change over time for various portions of the data e.g. for different data packets .

In addition to determining whether to replicate the data step may also involve determining based for example on any of the above mentioned factors which and or how many of the communication paths are to be redundantly used. For example if it is determined that a particular communication path e.g. as experienced by the network interface sending data over the communication path has a congestion condition such as a large amount of jitter and or latency then it may be determined to supplement the communication path with another communication path e.g. via a different network interface or not to use that communication path at all to route the data. The determination of whether a congestion condition exists may include for example determining whether the latency exceeds a predetermined latency threshold and or the jitter exceeds a predetermined jitter threshold.

At step it may be determined whether the path over which the data is to be routed is experiencing a congestion condition or is expected to be congested. This may be determined in any number of ways such as by measuring the latency and or jitter experienced by the network interface and comparing the measured value s with a predetermined threshold latency value and or a predetermined threshold jitter value. If it is determined that a congestion condition is present then it may be determined that the request should be replicated and so this may be noted e.g. by setting the replication flag to the first value and the process may move to step . If not then this may be noted e.g. by setting the replication flag to the second value and the process may move to step . The process of is but one possible way that step may be implemented. There are many other possible permutations and combinations of factors that may be taken into account to make the determination of step . While the steps of determine whether or not a request is to be replicated these steps could alternatively be performed to determine whether a request is to be modified rather than or in addition to replication of the request. Moreover while the steps of are shown in a particular order and divided into specific steps it will be understood that the order may be modified and that one or more of the steps may be combined and that one or more of the steps may be further sub divided into further steps.

Returning to if the determination during step is that the routing of the data is not to be modified e.g. by replication and or modification of the request then the process may move to step in which control of the request is passed back to the operating system if such passing of control is needed.

If on the other hand the determination during step is that the routing of the data should be modified again e.g. by replication and or modification of the request then the process may move to step . At step it may be determined whether the original request is for sending the data over a first network connection Connection A or over a second network connection Connection B . This may be determined at least by e.g. examining the request. If the request is for sending the data over Connection A then the process may move to step . If the request is for sending the data over Connection B then the process may move to step . Connection A may be a wired network connection and Connection B may be wireless network connection or vice versa. Alternatively Connection A and Connection B may both be the same type of network connection a wired network connection or a wireless network connection . It can be seen that step may be extended to involve decisions about more than two possible network connections. For example the sending device may have one or more wired network connections and or one or more wireless network connections. Thus there may also be a possible Connection C Connection D etc. for a given sending device. Only two possible network connections are explicitly shown step for simplicity of explanation in the present example.

At step if the request is for sending the data over Connection A the routing module and or the operating system may replicate the request and or the data associated with the request to generate a request for sending over Connection B e.g. a second request that may be a replicated version of the original request except that the data is to be sent over Connection B toward the destination . Additionally or alternatively the original request may be modified to request sending the data to the destination both via a wired path and via a wireless path. Where the data is in the form of one or more packets including headers and payloads the payload of each data packet may be replicated identically. The header of each data packet may also be replicated identically or may be different. For example the header may be replicated identically except for one or more items of header information such as an identity of the source of the data packet e.g. to distinguish between the various network interfaces that may be used by the sending device . The process may then move to step .

If on the other hand the request is for sending the data over Connection B then at step the routing module and or the operating system may replicate the wireless request to generate a request to send over Connection A e.g. a second request that may be a replicated version of the original request except that the data is to be sent over Connection B toward the destination . Additionally or alternatively the original request may be modified to a single request sending the data to the destination both via Connections A and B. The process may then move to step .

At step if control of the request and or of any replicated request is not with the operating system then such control may be passed back to the operating system and or to any other appropriate software application. Then at step the operating system and or another software application may use one or more the appropriate routing information e.g. routing tables based on the one or more network connections as determined at steps and to route the data to the indicated destination over one or more paths. For example the same data may be routed per the original request and the replicated request or per the modified request over one or both of Connections A and B e.g. over both wired and wireless paths . The same data may then be sent by the sending computing device e.g. the computing device A to the destination over the determined network connection s e.g. using the network I O .

At step the receiving computing device receives the data such as in the form of one or more data packets e.g. IP data packets and or other grouping of data. The data may be received by a given network connection of the receiving computing device. In this example the receiving network connections are labeled as Connection C and Connection D. However it will be understood that there may be more than two receiving network connections and that the receiving network connections may comprise one or more wired network connections and or one or more wireless network connections. Moreover Connection C and Connection may be different types of network connections e.g. one wired and the other wireless or the same type of network connection e.g. both wired or both wireless .

Connections C and D may be implemented by for example the network I O . The process of may be repeatedly performed for each grouping of data. For example the steps may be performed for each data packet on a packet by packet basis for each burst of data packets on a burst by burst basis for each of a set of multiple packets e.g. every fixed or variable X number of packets and or on any other basis.

For example assuming that the sending device is the computing device A and the receiving device is the computing device B then the wired and or wireless connections of the computing device B may receive the data via the wired and or wireless paths extending between the router and the computing device B in the example of or the wired and or wireless paths extending between the computing device A and the computing device B in the example of . Or if the sending device is the computing device A and the receiving device is the computing device C then the wired and or wireless connections of the computing device C may receive the data via the wired and or wireless paths extending between the router and the computing device C in the example of or the wired and or wireless paths extending between the gateway and the computing device C in the example of . Or if the sending device is the computing device A and the receiving device is the router device then the wired and or wireless connections of the router device may receive the data via the wired and or wireless paths extending between the computing device A and the router device .

At step the receiving computing device determines whether the data received at step was already received by an alternate connection e.g. via an alternate path . For example while the data may be sent to and received by the receiving computing device by Connection C for example a wired connection e.g. through the wired path between the router and the computing device B the data may have already been previously sent to and received by the receiving computing device by Connection D for example a wireless connection e.g. through the wireless path between the router and the computing device B . Likewise while the data may be sent to and received by the receiving computing device by a wireless connection e.g. through the wireless path between the router and the computing device B the data may have already been previously sent to and received by the receiving computing device by a wired connection e.g. through the wired path between the router and the computing device B .

If the data is determined at step to have been already received through an alternate connection then the data may be ignored e.g. discarded at step . The data may be ignored because there is no need to receive any further instances of data that was already successfully received. Thus if replicated data is redundantly sent over two paths e.g. a wired path and a wireless path or two wired paths or two wireless paths the data on the slower of the two paths would be ignored and the data on the faster of the two paths would be utilized.

If the data was not already received by an alternate connection as determined at step then the receiving device may log the data as currently being received. Such logging may be done actively as a separate activity or it may be inherent to the receiving process. For example the receiving device may maintain a data log containing unique identifiers of the data packets or other groupings of data received along with an indication of which connection e.g. wired versus wireless received the data packet. The unique identifiers may include unique portions of data packet headers and or a hashing of the data packet s and or portion s thereof. This may be considered an active logging of the data packets since it may involve additional processing of the data packets to log the identifiers. The identifiers may be stored on a permanent or semi permanent basis such as in a first in first out FIFO buffer. In such a case step may involve comparing data packets or other groupings received with the log of identifiers. As another example the data packets themselves may be received into a FIFO buffer one for each of the connections and step may involve comparing the received data with the data already in the FIFO buffer. This may be considered a passive logging since the data packets or other groupings may already be stored in the FIFO buffer as an inherent part of the receiving process. In this latter situation step may not involve any extra processing and may in fact be skipped altogether.

Next at step the receiving computing device may determine whether the receiving computing device is itself the destination of the data. This may be determined by for example examining the header information of the data. If the receiving computing device is the indicated destination then the data may be utilized by the receiving computing device at step . For example the data may be interpreted and rendered as multimedia content and or stored in a secondary storage device such as on a hard drive or a memory chip.

If the receiving computing device determines that it is not the destination indicated by the data then at step the receiving computing device may forward the data on one or more paths that is toward the destination. For example if the receiving computing device is the router device or the gateway device then it is likely that neither of these devices are the intended destination and so it may be typical for these devices to forward the data toward the destination. The forwarding at step may involve sending the data over only a single path or it may involve forwarding the data redundantly over two or more paths such as in the manner described with regard to . Thus for example the data may be forwarded toward the destination using one or both of wired and wireless paths and may use the process of to determine whether and or how to send the data. As another example data may be received by the receiving computing device over two or more communication paths yet may forward the data at step using only a single communication path. Again the receiving computing device may forward only the first received instance of the data and may ignore any later received instances of the data.

While certain examples have been described above in which two communication paths have been used to transmit two copies of data any of these examples may use more than two communications paths to transmit more than two copies of the data such as three communication paths four communication paths or more. Any of these multiple communication paths may be used to simultaneously transmit the copies of the data if desired. The number of communication paths used to transmit data may be dynamically determined based on any of the above discussed factors such as network conditions.

Moreover the various features described above are merely non limiting examples and can be rearranged combined subdivided omitted and or altered in any desired manner. For example features of the servers can be subdivided among multiple processors and computing devices. The true scope of this patent should only be defined by the claims that follow.

