---

title: Social network device memberships and applications
abstract: A social device including capabilities for participating in a social network group via a social infrastructure. Various functions and resources of the social device are accessible by members of the social network group. Likewise, the social device may be configured to access services and other resources of the social network group. The social device may participate in the social network group through an autonomous, automated or member-triggered process. In one embodiment, the social device functions as a social gateway to communicatively couple a child node and a social network group. The social gateway may comprise a set top box or mobile communication device, and the child node may be a human user that interacts with the social gateway through a user interface. In a further embodiment, the social gateway may concurrently operate as a child device that communicates with a social network group through another social device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09065869&OS=09065869&RS=09065869
owner: Broadcom Corporation
number: 09065869
owner_city: Irvine
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120103
---
U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 545 147 entitled Social Network Device Memberships and Resource Allocation filed Oct. 8 2011 which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety and made part of the present U.S. Utility Patent Application for all purposes.

The invention relates generally to social networking and more particularly it relates to social network device memberships resource allocation and related services and communications.

The popularity and growth of social network sites and services has increased dramatically over the last few years. Present social network sites include Facebook Google Twitter MySpace YouTube LinkedIn Flicker MYUBO Bebo and the like. Such social networking SNET sites are typically web based and organized around user profiles and or collections of content accessible by members of the network. Membership in such social networks is comprised of individuals or groupings of individuals who are generally represented by profile pages and permitted to interact as determined by the social networking service.

In many popular social networks especially profile focused social networks activity centers on web pages or social spaces that enable members to view profiles communicate and share activities interests opinions status updates audio video content etc. across networks of contacts. Social networking services might also allow members to track certain activities of other members of the social network collaborate locate and connect with existing friends former acquaintances and colleagues and establish new connections with other members.

Individual members typically connect to social networking services through existing web based platforms via a computing device tablet or smartphone. Members often share a common bond social status or geographic or cultural connection with their respective contacts. Smartphone and games based mobile social networking services are examples of rapidly developing areas.

In so called cloud computing computing tasks are performed on remote computers servers which are typically accessed via Internet connections. One benefit of cloud computing is that may reduce the relative processing and storage capabilities required by user devices e.g. a cloud computer may load a webpage accessed by a tablet device and communicate only required information back to the tablet . Accordingly recent years have witnessed an ever growing amount of content and application software being migrated from local or on site storage to cloud based data storage and management. Such software functionality services and content are typically available on demand via virtualized network infrastructures.

As used herein the terms social network and SNET comprise a grouping or social structure of devices and or individuals as well as connections links and interdependencies between such devices and or individuals. Members or actors including devices within or affiliated with a SNET may be referred to herein as nodes social devices SNET members SNET devices user devices and or modules . In addition the terms SNET circle SNET group and SNET sub circle generally denote a social network that comprises social devices and as contextually appropriate human SNET members and personal area networks PANs .

Referring now to a social network circle group hereinafter SNET circle comprising social devices is shown. Beyond traditional social networking features and services a SNET circle and associated social devices according to various embodiments of the invention include numerous novel features and attributes as described more fully below with general reference to the illustration.

Briefly membership in the SNET circle may comprise docked social devices an embodiment of which is described in conjunction with and human SNET circle members as well as proxies thereof. Further SNET circle nodes may include device services and software e.g. applications of various types participating as members. By way of example SNET circle members might include artificial intelligence agents social robots SNET security device s appliances vehicles and service providers common or authorized members functionality of other SNET circles etc. Further access to specific content and resources of a SNET circle may be shared with members of additional SNET s including remote or web based applications. Such access can be conditioned on acceptable profiling and association data. Similarly social devices or individuals may be granted temporary or ad hoc memberships with or without restricted access.

In the illustrated embodiment formation maintenance and operation of SNET group is performed by standalone or distributed SNET processing circuitry and software . It is noted that the SNET processing circuitry may comprise hardware hardware and software software applications executed by SNET hardware or various combinations thereof and be configurable to support various functionalities disclosed herein. Further the SNET processing circuitry may be included in a standalone server server farm cloud based resources and or the various types of devices described below and incorporate authentication and security functionality . In addition specialized middleware may also be utilized by SNETs according to the invention including standardized middleware or standardized communication protocols with an associated certification process. Interactions and interdependencies within the SNET group may involve one or more of an adaptive resource management allocation and arbitration module a social device association control module and a SNET group member profiling module as described more fully below.

Distribution of internal and external SNET content media can be accomplished in a variety of ways in accordance with various embodiments of the invention. For example media distribution may involve an adaptive or parallel network routing infrastructure involving a wide variety of communication protocols and wired and or wireless communications channels. SNET content media may comprise for example various user driven advertising channels pictures videos links online text etc. Access to such content as well as communications with and remote access to social devices of the SNET circle may occur over an Internet backbone cellular communication system WAN LAN etc.

In the illustrated embodiment social system members or nodes include one or more local or remote servers and server clusters that provide a support infrastructure for social group functionality and member operations routing data storage services etc. . Communications within the social group and with non members may occur via dedicated or multi function communication path devices.

Social system members further include devices configured to operate as nodes within the social group . Social functionality in such devices and other social system members can be implemented through various means. For example a device may have integral hardware firmware software to support social group access and member operations. Alternatively a general purpose device may include social code that enables participation in the social group . In a further embodiment a device designed to include social functionality may participate in the social group through a combination of non social code and a social shim layer or driver wrapper. In yet another embodiment a member device having a social design may utilize additional social code including code specific to a social group .

Participation in the social group is supported through functionality that includes automated and member triggered membership invitations and processing membership management . More particularly membership management may function to invite prospective members to participate in the social group through automatic automated and member triggered processes. For example membership management might be configured by a human user to establish a social group by automatically inviting accepting social system members having certain characteristics such as devices owned or controlled by the user or acquaintances of the user .

Processing of accepted invitations and unsolicited requests to join the social group may be conditioned upon input or authorization from an existing social system member s or human user s e.g. through a user interface . Similarly membership management may be configured to generate automated suggestions regarding which prospective members receive an invitation. Various other approaches such as those described herein can be used to establish membership in accordance with the invention.

Access to and visibility of resources of a social group including services and data may be managed through general and member class specific access configurations . For example if membership in the social group includes family members and associated devices a uniform access configuration or separate device and human configurations could be applied across the class in an automatic or automated manner. In other embodiments access control and constraints are imposed on a per member basis.

The social group may offer a wide variety of member services including both internal and external services accessible by social system members . By way of example the social group may offer email or other communication services between full members and or authorized guest members and visitors. As with other resources of the social group access control and constraints on member services may be applied to individual members or classes of members.

The SNET infrastructure of the illustrated embodiment includes a number of functions and resources to support formation and maintenance of a SNET having social device members. In particular member report management and processing receives information from SNET group member reporting functions in associated social devices . Such information may include for example status data regarding the location address and activities of a social device and or device user.

In addition the social device may provide device information indicating for example device functions and social capabilities device model number s device configurations software versions attached peripherals and downstream social devices device resources and usage etc. Device information relating to available resources and current resource usage may be utilized by the SNET infrastructure for purposes of SNET resource management including dynamic resource allocation and arbitration.

In various embodiments the social device may have an obligation to gather store and or report device status information at different times. For example reporting may be required upon affiliation or docking with a SNET on a periodic basis and or during operational engagements with other intra and inter SNET resources and devices including upstream and downstream devices .

Referring again to the SNET infrastructure additional functionality and resources include without limitation SNET member information capture and storage management a SNET application programming interface API that allows SNET associated software components to communicate with each other security and access control management for maintaining the integrity of the SNET and affiliated data resources and Web server services . The social network infrastructure further comprises other group application services corresponding to the foregoing as well as additional services such as those described herein. In one exemplary embodiment the SNET infrastructure might determine e.g. by means of device information the category and nature of a social device wishing to participate in a SNET. As necessary functionality in the SNET infrastructure could then direct or trigger installation of appropriate application software and underlying drivers in the social device . Such operations might be performed with minimal involvement from inherent functions of the social device .

In the illustrated embodiment the social device comprises a number of additional functions and resources to support participation in a social network. More particularly SNET SNET and or member control functions may include slave functions master functions and various combinations thereof. Slave functions include for example device re configuration directed resource allocation managed resource arbitration bridging operations etc. Master functions enable the social device to establish manage and terminate various interactions between nodes or groups of nodes in a social network including interactions involving the social device itself.

The social device further includes a social API and browser based interaction capabilities to support for example relevant social applications and services which might comprise slave and master functions and . Security and access control layers permit the social device to interface with or establish secure SNET groups circles and control access to internal and external SNET resources.

It is noted that numerous of the functional building blocks of the embodiment of the invention illustrated by may be incorporated in whole or part in one or more application specific integrated circuit devices. For example an integrated circuit device may include a member reporting module to provide member reporting functionality including communication of device status and device characteristics device control capabilities master slave functions security and access control modules etc. Such an integrated circuit device may also include onboard processing capabilities and or interface with a processor device. Alternatively several of the functions described above may be incorporated in whole or part into an operating system and or software loaded above an operating system kernel.

As described more fully in conjunction with the illustrated social devices may operate in a social device hierarchy comprising social devices social parent SP devices and social child SC devices. Briefly SP devices may enable associated SC devices to interact and or connect with a social network either directly or indirectly. Social capabilities of a SC device can be provided via a SP device.

Further certain social devices according to various embodiments and applications of the invention such as the STB gateway and downstream devices may concurrently or selectively function as a social device SP device and or SC device. Associations between SP and SC devices may be established in a selective automatic or automated manner. For example docking of the STB gateway with a SNET infrastructure may result in automatic docking of user s home devices.

The STB gateway of the illustrated embodiment interacts with a SNET infrastructure and SNET external media systems via one or more wired and wireless networks links . The wired and wireless networks links and may utilize one or more of various transmission media such as coaxial cable shielded twisted pair cable fiber optic cable power line wires and wireless media radio frequencies microwave satellite infrared etc. and operate in accordance with a variety of communication and networking protocols TCP IP UPnP IPv6 etc. . In addition the wired and wireless networks links may comprise a multi hop network utilizing a spanning tree protocol direct wireless connections peer to peer links etc.

The SNET external media systems may comprise for example one or more of cable satellite and or terrestrial televisions systems. Various headend equipment and services can be utilized by these systems such as a cable headend that receives television signals for further processing and distribution and may offer various other services such as internet connectivity.

While the illustrated STB gateway functions as a social parent device in alternate embodiments it could have a peer to peer or parent relationship with the SNET infrastructure and SNET members associated therewith or SNET external media systems . For example a cable headend itself might include social capabilities allowing it to participate as a node in a social network.

The STB gateway of the illustrated embodiment includes a broadcast unicast multicast front end that operates to receive compressed digital video digital audio and other data signals from either the SNET external media systems or SNET infrastructure for further processing and distribution. The front end comprises tuner circuitry operable to isolate particular channels. Signals from the tuner circuitry are then provided to analog to digital ADC circuitry and demodulation circuitry for conversion into binary format stream. Once in binary format forward error correction FEC circuitry checks the integrity of the received binary stream. Audio video and data extracted from the binary stream may then be decoded e.g. by decoding into formats suitable for consumption by downstream social devices. It is noted that demodulation circuitry a may support one or more modulation techniques such as Quadrature Phase Shift Keying QPSK Quadrature Amplitude Modulation QAM Coded Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing COFDM etc.

The front end may be integrated into one or more semiconductor devices that may further support for example interactive digital television networked DVR functionality IP video over DOCSIS applications and 3D graphics support. In addition multiple tuner circuitry including in band and out of band tuners ADC circuitry and demodulation circuitry may be provided for different television standards such as PAL NTSC ATSC SECAM DVB C DVB T 2 DVB H ISDB T DMB Open Cable and modulation schemes. Further in certain embodiments sharing of channels and associated program information provided by the front end may be considered a social function.

In one alternative embodiment of the invention functionality of the STB gateway functionality is performed by a smartphone or mobile computing device. In this embodiment the front end comprises one or more wireless interfaces including PHY and baseband functions such as a cellular 3G 4G IMT Advanced etc. or wide area network WiMax etc. interface. The interface may support one or more modulation and multiplexing techniques such as OFDM OFDMA SC FDMA QPSK QAM 64QAM CSMA MIMO etc. In the illustrated embodiment the wireless interface comprises a transceiver analog to digital ADC and digital to analog DAC circuitry demodulation and modulation circuitry and FEC such as turbo codes or LDPC codes circuitry . Encoding decoding and transcoding functions may be provided by processing circuitry .

The STB gateway also includes upstream social communication interface circuitry for communicating with SNET infrastructure and or SNET external media system . Through the social communication interface circuitry the STB gateway may communicate directly with upstream resources or offer bidirectional bridged communications between such resources and devices e.g. social devices coupled to the STB gateway .

In the embodiment of STB gateway interacts with a variety of social devices and upstream resources via upstream social communication interface circuitry and downstream social child communication interface circuitry coupled to one or more wired and wireless communication networks . For example a television interface module communicates with a digital television or other media display device to relay television programming and enable available interactive services. Similarly an audio interface provides audio programming or audio library access to an audio system .

The communication interface circuitry further comprises a remote control interface for receiving control signals from a remote control . In addition to traditional remote control operations the remote control may further offer voice and or gesture control signals that are relayed or mapped to relevant media devices. User interfaces are also provided for communications with one or more user interface devices . Gaming interfaces function to provide interactive communications with a gaming system . Such communications may involve for example online multiplayer gaming between members a social network and or external players in a gaming platform.

Various communications between downstream devices may be bridged without substantive modification to various nodes in a social network via social bridging interfaces . Such bridging may operate independently of the set top functionality of the STB gateway . For example social child devices may communicate directly with a SNET infrastructure to receive social channel broadcasts from a social group or IPTV services.

The STB gateway of the illustrated embodiment includes processing circuitry which may be comprised of hardware software or combinations thereof social upstream downstream functionality support and decoding functionality to support social interactions such as those described above. Social upstream downstream functionality support in this embodiment includes various functions such as social bridging parent child services and other functionality such as functions of . It is noted that the processing circuitry may be made available in whole or part as a SNET resource.

Referring now to a schematic block diagram is shown for a social device operable to support various interactions between other social devices and social systems in accordance with an embodiment of the invention. The social device is configured with a variety of functions that enable it to operate in a social device hierarchy comprising social S devices social parent SP devices and social child SC devices. For example a social parent device may enable a docked social child device to access resources of the parent device and or connect to and interact with directly or indirectly with a social network. The social child device may be configured with inherent social capabilities or gain access to such capabilities from or through an associated parent device. Further a human SNET member might have associated social child devices or be served by a social parent device via a user I O interface .

A social device according to various embodiments and applications of the invention may also concurrently or selectively function as a social device SP device SC device or even a grandparent device that supports e.g. in a multi hop environment a parent device in a SNET group. Dynamic and static hierarchical associations between SP and SC devices may be established in a selective automatic or automated manner. Further a social device may take many forms including without limitation a smartphone personal computer server tablet device access point gateway network switch hub bridging device set top box or other device enabled with social capabilities.

In the illustrated embodiment the social device is communicatively coupled to a SNET infrastructure and or social parent system via upstream social communication interface circuitry . Likewise downstream social peer and or child communication interface circuitry enables coupling with a social child device social peer device and or social parent system device . Social resources of both upstream and downstream devices may be accessible to one another via the social device .

The social device of this embodiment includes social resources that along with external SNET resources are managed by a social resource management module and accessible to at least one other SNET group member. Specific social resources may include user I O interfaces general purpose and dedicated hardware processing circuitry peripheral circuitry and components which may or may not have social capabilities communication bandwidth and credit determination functionality switching bridging functions application software etc.

Among other functions the social resource management module comprises allocation arbitration and scheduling functionality as well as the functionality for establishing regaining and relinquishing control processing operations . It is noted that counterpart resource management functionality may be present in the SNET infrastructure and or other SNET nodes.

In one exemplary embodiment wherein the social device comprises a switching bridge bandwidth capacity may be dynamically allocated by allocation arbitration and scheduling functionality . Access to bandwidth capacity and other resources of the social device might be available only upon request or per arbitration functions and selectively terminated when excessive bandwidth resources are consumed or requested.

Although SNET sub circles and are illustrated as separate sub circles such sub circles may instead comprise a single SNET circle or sub circle or any number of additional SNET circles and or sub circles each of which may include various combinations of social devices . Further SNET processing circuitry and software of the illustrated embodiment manages formation and operation of the SNET circle . The SNET processing circuitry and software may be incorporated in a standalone server social devices and or cloud based resources. The SNET circle may be persistent or of limited duration and include ad hoc and or static associations.

Exemplary social devices may be broadly categorized as either i social devices that include a user or SNET circle interface sufficient to provide meaningful input to SNET interaction and ii social devices that support minimal or no user input relevant to SNET interaction. More particularly and without limitation the first category may include computers tablet devices IPTVs IPTV set top boxes smart phones servers laptops cloudbooks network attached storage devices gaming consoles media players sources communication nodes access points routers switches gateways etc. user interface devices power line communication PLC devices etc. Such social devices may receive user input for SNET setup and management. The second category may include again without limitation printers projectors cameras and camcorders scanners speakers headsets smoke detectors alarm systems video cameras mice etc. In general dockable social devices include any electronic device that could be operably coupled to or docked in a SNET circle sub circle via wired or wireless pathways to participate as a SNET member.

As will be appreciated by docking social devices members of a SNET circle may gain full or partial remote control and interaction such devices via an authorized member SNET account. For example family members authorized to participate in a family SNET circle may remotely access docked social devices via one or more associated SNET accounts. Exemplary methods for docking and accessing social devices are described more fully below in conjunction with .

The social device further includes processing circuitry operable to process and manage communications services and associations between the device and other entities including members of a SNET circle third parties software agents etc. More particularly the processing circuitry may include for example a software management application comprising one or more of docking logic including support for device discovery and configuration protocols such as described below communication protocol control and security authentication functionality .

The social device further may utilize that may take many forms and be maintained in static or dynamic memory . Such profile information enables a social device and or user to present an image of itself and its capabilities to other members of a SNET. As described more fully below device and user profile information and may be utilized in various ways in accordance with the invention to facilitate a variety of social interactions. Depending on the capabilities and requirements of a particular device and other members of a SNET a device or user profile may be static or dynamic.

In certain embodiments the social device may interact with a user s via user interface circuitry . User input to the social device may include for example data entry through a keypad touchscreen remote control device gaming controller device control buttons voice or gesture commands storage device etc. Authorized access to or control of the social device can be facilitated through unique biometric identifiers passwords token based identification trusted authorities or documents such as a driver s license or passport and like authentication means.

The social device may perform core or underlying functionality various examples of which are described herein. Alternatively the social device may primarily function as a social networking interface or communication device or be programmable to perform specific functions within a SNET circle sub circle.

In one embodiment either the SNET gateway or SNET circle gateway functions as a proxy for the social device . Proxy functionality within the SNET gateway may be provided by a software application or a computer system server that functions as an intermediary for requests from clients including connected social devices seeking resources from other servers or gateways such as SNET gateway . Such resources might include files services web pages connections profiling information and interaction with social devices and other available SNET circle resources .

The SNET gateway may evaluate requests from social devices according to various filtering rules. For example the SNET gateway might filter traffic by IP address or protocol. Once a request from the social device validated if necessary the SNET gateway connects to the SNET circle gateway over a WLAN LAN or other communication path and requests access to resources of the SNET circle sub circle on behalf of the social device . The SNET gateway may optionally alter the request from the social device or the response from SNET circle gateway as appropriate.

Membership in the SNET circle sub circle is established through a docking module of the SNET processing circuitry and software which may support one or more device discovery and configuration protocols. When circle membership is restricted a local or cloud based registrar can be employed to provide authentication. The registrar of the illustrated embodiment may utilize an administrator or a directory service such as a Lightweight Directory Access Protocol LDAP based directory server that stores attribute data. LDAP is a well known application protocol for querying and modifying items in directory service. When docking with an IP based SNET circle a social device may broadcast profile data to the local domain using a textual data format such as Extensible Markup Language XML .

Membership in the SNET circle PAN might include for example a human member accessing the SNET circle via a user interface UI . In various embodiments of the invention described herein a UI may comprise a graphical user interface GUI voice controls gesture commands etc. The UI may take the form for example of a browser that graphically indicates available resources. Access to the SNET circle can also be provided by a proxy server . The proxy server functions as an intermediary for access requests from proxy clients including social devices connected to the proxy server via the Internet or other IP based networks seeking to communicate with social devices and or circle resources of the SNET circle sub circle . Such resources might include files services web pages connections profiling information and other available SNET circle resources. It is noted that the human member and proxy server may operate independently of a SNET circle or PAN. Further the proxy server may be a distributed or cloud based entity or a member of or incorporated in a member of the SNET circle sub circle .

In the illustrated embodiment communications with the SNET circle sub circle flow between a firewall and or a SNET gateway firewall over a WLAN LAN communication channel. The firewall s may be software based e.g. as part of an operating system or comprise various combinations of software and or hardware components. In addition a firewall may be incorporated in a gateway router such as the SNET gateway firewall . In certain embodiments the firewall may be operable to perform basic routing functions.

Referring first to the network aware social device exemplary steps are shown for docking or otherwise associating with a SNET circle . In this embodiment the social device broadcasts a request to register with or access a SNET circle. The request may occur as part of initiation or power up of the social device on a proximity or ad hoc basis or other trigger event.

The registration request may be received by at least one gateway device. The gateway functions to configure the social device such that it can communicate with other hosts. In an IP based network typical configuration information might include an IP address and default route and routing prefix. The gateway may be a standalone device multi function computing device etc. and can operate in an ad hoc manner or be persistent.

In one illustrative embodiment the network configuration protocol utilized by the gateway may be the Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol DHCP and related standards promulgated and maintained by the Internet Engineering Task Force IETF or similar protocol that automates network parameter assignment to network aware social devices . In addition to eliminating the need for manual device configuration DHCP provides a central database of devices that are connected to the network and eliminates duplicate resource assignments.

Upon a trigger event e.g. power up registration with a SNET circle etc. the social device can transmit configuration capability information to one or more other devices. Such information may be advertised to specific devices identified by the social device . The configuration capability information may also be transmitted to any device in a SNET circle or any device capable of receiving the transmission. A device can in some embodiments determine the configuration capability information of other devices by querying them individually or as a group.

SNET circle resources may also be accessible via a zero configuration multi cast discovery protocol that locates devices such as printers and the services offered by those devices on a local network using a multicast discovery protocol and related service records or profiling information. Such a protocol may operate at the application layer and transmissions of configuration capability information can be used for example to identify and utilize common programming interfaces protocols packet formats and the like between two or more devices. In addition a bridge or proxy node that communicatively couples two or more devices may utilize a multicast type discovery and access protocol. In certain embodiments a bridge or proxy node may communicate or relay queries and advertisements regarding configuration capability information and may further operate to process transcode or modify transmissions relating to configuration capability information of devices.

Wide area service discovery of SNET circle resources may be enabled through an appropriately configured domain name service DNS server or the like or a multicast type protocol that performs DNS like operations. Further SNET circle resources may be configured to support interoperability guidelines and network protocols such as Universal Plug and Play UPnP that provide uniform mechanisms and restrictions for accessing resources and media over a network.

Depending on the particular implementation gateway DHCP server may utilize various methods to assign and allocate IP addresses. Briefly a network SNET circle administrator can assign a range of available IP addresses. Each social device can be configured to request an IP address when joining a SNET circle or during SNET circle initialization. Next an IP address can be granted using a lease approach that includes a configurable time period thereby enabling the gateway to dynamically reclaim and then reallocate IP addresses that are not renewed e.g. a social device powers off or otherwise terminates communication with a SNET circle .

Alternatively the DHCP server may permanently assign an available IP address to a social device. Under this approach and the lease approach the DHCP server maintains a table of previous IP address assignments such that it may preferentially assign an IP address that was previously assigned to a requesting social device. In yet another approach a DHCP server may restrict IP address assignment to devices included in a table with MAC address and IP address pairs.

Once the social device is configured the gateway communicates with a firewall to open up communication ports thereby permitting network transmissions to from the social device . Registered ports are typically used by networked applications as transitory source ports when contacting servers but they can also identify named services that have been registered by a third party.

In addition to opening ports for devices the firewall may function to advertise the social device to local and remote users devices and services over for example a WAN W LAN communication channel. In one embodiment social device IP addresses and profiles are communicated to SNET circle members and remote users devices. In another embodiment a gateway may function as a proxy such as described above in conjunction with for social devices including legacy devices that might otherwise require human involvement. The firewall may be software based e.g. as part of an operating system or comprise various combinations of software firmware and or hardware components. In addition the gateway may include bifurcated firewall functionality for connections to SNET circles sub circles and remote devices respectively.

Social device participation in a SNET circle sub circle can be established through a docking module or like functionality in a SNET circle. When SNET circle membership is restricted a local or cloud based registrar can be employed to provide authentication services using a directory service for example . The registrar may be located in or on either side of the gateway including after firewall or it may operate independently of a gateway. Further the registrar might provide registration functions for both the social device and or a remoter user device .

When docking with an IP based SNET circle the social device may broadcast profile data to the local domain using a textual data format such as Extensible Markup Language XML . Upon successful docking of a new social device a SNET circle node e.g. docking module provides authorized access to SNET circle. It is contemplated that the social device may simultaneously participate in more than one SNET circle.

Referring to the remote user device a process is illustrated for accessing resources in a SNET circle such as a social device . In one embodiment the remote user device employs an embedded SNET circle client to establish communications with the social device . In operation the client queries the cloud over a WAN W LAN or like communication channel for accessible SNET devices and APIs. Visibility of other SNET circle devices resources might be selectively determined by a SNET circle owner or administrator.

Upon detection of the social device and affiliated SNET circle access by the user device may require a registration process such as that described above. If access is to be granted the user device receives authorization information which could be encrypted and involve the exchange of encryption keys with a SNET circle or registrar. Access to the SNET social device might also require a username password. Prior to or following authentication of the user device the SNET circle client can be configured to broadcast profile information relating to the social device .

In one embodiment after access to the social device is established the user device transmits data to the social device for further processing. Such data may be produced by a driver or device that is compatible with the advertised capabilities of the social device .

By way of example if the social device is a networked printer the user device can transmit a document to the printer or relevant SNET circle URL for printing. In another embodiment wherein the social device is a digital picture frame the user device provides an image for display either automatically or via remote activation such as a voice command . In yet another exemplary embodiment the social device comprises a shared folder that is accessible for example by students in a classroom SNET circle. An acknowledge protocol can be utilized to confirm successful communications between the user device and social device .

SNET circle resources may be accessible via a zero configuration multicast discovery protocol that locates devices such as printers and the services offered by those devices on a local network using a multicast discovery protocol and related service records or profiling information. Such a protocol may operate at the application layer. Wide area service discovery of SNET circle resources configured in this manner may be enabled through an appropriately configured domain name service DNS server. Further SNET circle resources may be configured to support interoperability guidelines and network protocols such as Universal Plug and Play UPnP that provide uniform mechanisms and restrictions for accessing resources and media over a network.

SNET circle communications in accordance with the invention may utilize a variety of transmission protocols. By way of example most communication over the Internet is currently performed in accordance with the Transmission Control Protocol TCP and User Datagram Protocol UDP . As is known TCP typically provides an intermediate level of communication services between for example an application program and the Internet Protocol IP . Port numbers are used to identify end points for sending and receiving applications on a host often referred to as Internet sockets or network sockets . Internet sockets facilitate delivery of incoming data packets to an appropriate application process or thread as determined by a combination of local and remote e.g. SNET circle IP addresses and port numbers. In some embodiments the Real time Transport Protocol RTP running over UDP may be employed for media streaming applications real time multiplayer gaming voice over IP VoIP and like applications that are tolerant of a certain level of packet loss and may not require a dedicated end to end connection.

Data compiled by the circle profiling and data correlation module may be used by members of the SNET circle to perform a variety of operations. The data may further be accessed by a separate or intersecting SNET circle sub circle . Membership in the SNET circle sub circle includes for example cloud based applications human members via an API and a variety of social devices . In an alternate embodiment such entities operate independently of a SNET circle sub circle.

As described more fully below in conjunction with a wide variety of information including SNET member circle profile derived information feedback and replies from the SNET circle queries and other data mining operations tailored multimedia content targeted advertising introductions etc.

In optional step compiled profiling information relating to a social device or group of social devices is provided to a SNET circle by a profiling module or docked social device s . Communication of the profiling information may be accomplished via self promotion by a social device with access to the profiling information or in response to group queries data requests and or data mining activities. In addition profiling information may be automatically or selectively provided to non members of the relevant SNET circle.

Next in step the profiling information is utilized to generate filter distribute and or modify SNET circle content. In various exemplary embodiments profiling information is utilized by applications or widgets e.g. a shopping application to generate targeted content. Uses for profiling information may include adding personalized advertisements to a content stream interactive features advertising based on previously viewed content generating or embedding an advertising channel for a particular SNET circle with or without click through contingent content access time synchronized or prioritized advertising and generating a stream of advertising content that is displayed differently to different SNET circle members.

Likewise content may be dynamically modified based on a consumer s SNET circle memberships. For example if a consumer is a member of an Alcoholics Anonymous SNET circle a beer bottle in a movie scene might be replaced with a soda bottle. Advertisements may also be filtered or sent to a various member affiliated devices in a SNET circle such as a member s cell phone based on the proximity data SNET circle memberships of children etc. Profiling information for a SNET circle and circle members may be updated step on a continual or periodic basis as necessary to support desired functionality.

In step compiled profiling information is optionally provided to SNET circle members by the profiling module or a docked social device s with access to the profiling information. Communication of the profiling information may be accomplished via self promotion by a social device or in response to group queries data requests and or data mining activities. In addition profiling information may be automatically or selectively provided to non members of the relevant SNET circle.

Next in step the profiling module and data correlation module of the illustrated embodiment utilizes such information directly in a correlation manner to find alignments with SNET circle activities queries and requests. As shown in step a SNET circle might then use profiling data and correlations to provide responses to queries recommendations feedback services targeted advertising and media content etc. Profiling information for a SNET circle and circle members may be updated step on a continual or periodic basis as necessary to support desired operations. In addition a device profile associated with a social device s may be based on correlation information and enable the device to present an image of itself and its capabilities to other members of a SNET circle. Depending on the current capabilities and requirements of a particular device and other members of a SNET such device profiles may be static or dynamic.

Exemplary correlation operations according to the invention may assemble disparate data in an effort to better understand a range of human biases and behaviors. By way of example a person wishing to purchase a gift might utilize a SNET circle member s past content consumption to educate the gift selection process. Purchases based on recommendations might be tracked for purposes of providing commissions credits discounts etc. Data mining information may be made available in order to solicit recommendations and advice from other SNET circle nodes or remote devices and services. In addition the profiling and data correlation module may operate to aggregate anonymous data in order to identify SNET circle interests. Such data may include for example preferred member devices purchasing histories website interactions travel inclinations etc. In one embodiment select member profiling information and or permissive use of tracking software such as cookies may be utilized to facilitate data correlation and aggregation activities.

Profiling and correlation information may also be used to generate introductions with people of similar interests dating friends and contacts hobbies and sports gaming activities using like platforms software professions device ownership etc. . If desired offers to participate in a particular SNET circle can be generated or accepted on an anonymous basis.

Member profiling information may further indicate areas of expertise levels of respect and feedback from other members etc. For example if a human social network member is respected and buys and docks a social device in a circle other members not willing to spend the time shopping for competitive counterparts may simply purchase the same device. Such sales may be via redirected communications with external sales sites.

Either through auto self promoting or in response to a group inquiry a docked social device according to the invention might also deliver advertising information including providing support for carrying out an order for another social network member. The device may also provide demonstrations utilizing a remote member s identifiable social devices. Further the device might also perform competitive testing against other devices.

A member of a SNET in accordance with various embodiments of the invention such as those disclosed herein may establish permissions and or privacy settings that control and restrict who or what may access the member s profile s information connections and circles as well as define desired degrees of access. Permissions may enable the user to maintain certain information as private or available on a permissive basis only. For example visibility of specified user information may be limited to users devices in a SNET s . Alternatively specified user information may be publicly available. Likewise a SNET member may selectively decide to permit others to access personal information such as name gender contact information email address etc.

As described above in conjunction with and elsewhere various embodiments of a SNET circle according to the invention may comprise a wide variety of social devices device services proxies and software applications of various types participating as SNET circle members. Further social devices and other types of SNET circle members having related or specific characteristics and interdependencies may form SNET circles having specific purposes such as those described below in conjunction with . Various embodiments may comprise for example SNET circle members such as device manufacturers automobile owners hospitals and medical providers repair shops insurance companies and other third parties that might have an interest in communicating with a human member and or associated SNET devices. Such SNETs circles may be stand alone or an extension of other SNETs circles.

Referring first to an embodiment of an appliance social network circle sub circle in accordance with the invention is illustrated. In this embodiment an appliance circle sub circle comprises a wide variety of household appliances electronics social appliances that may include without limitation washing machines dryers refrigerators televisions STBs thermostats networking equipment etc. Membership in the appliance circle sub circle allows for a variety of interactions with or between such social appliances including setup and configuration as generally described above testing registration firmware and driver updates sharing status updates including power consumption information power company integration location information sharing formation of sub circles of social appliances permissions management etc.

Such interaction including communications with various social devices and family members participating in the appliance circle sub circle are facilitated through SNET processing circuitry software . In addition interaction between individuals and nodes in the appliance circle sub circle may be enabled through individual household accounts . Interactions with authorized non members may also occur through cloud communication channels or other networking paths utilized by the appliance circle sub circle .

With respect to certain contemplated social appliances such as smoke detectors carbon dioxide detectors alarm system systems and other security devices automated SNET functionality may be implemented to place automated calls or notifications to family members or emergency response entities fire departments law enforcement personnel etc. following detection of a safety event. Nearby residences may likewise receive such notifications.

When a new social appliance joins an appliance circle sub circle the SNET processing circuitry software or like functionality may determine the model sub model of the appliance deliver software updates configure operational modes etc. Further the appliance may receive or provide profile information relating to the appliance or other members of the appliance circle sub circle . Bidirectional communications with an appliance SNET circle may occur through a powerline phoneline cable plant communication system e.g. via Internet pathways power company powerlines or other specified communication pathways . Smart grid functionality and interactions may similarly be conducted through Zigbee WiFi NFC LTE IMT Advanced 4G and or other applicable protocols.

More particularly membership in the vehicular SNET circle sub circle may comprise a passenger SNET sub circle comprised of a human member and associated entertainment devices communication devices computing devices and additional social devices . Other participants might include for example payment processing services for automated remunerations for gas tolls vehicle servicing inspection drive through restaurants etc. insurance companies emergency services devices vehicle manufacturers and location based content providers . Various nodes of vehicular SNET circle sub circle may include interfaces for communications through a cellular network WAN or mobile hotpot and the like. Various usage models include for example proximity based activation of SNET circle nodes such as garage door openers environmental controls etc. In addition an insurance company may participate in order to for example view and verify driving behavior histories data and possibly offer discounts relating to same.

A vehicle according to the invention may be an automobile bus train industrial or agricultural vehicle ship or aircraft. Vehicular nodes modules in accordance with the invention may control specific components relating to respective functionality. Such on board circle nodes may include for example cameras and sensors entertainment systems environmental controls computing resources guidance and location functions safety systems braking and suspension systems battery system fuel cell monitors emissions control modules performance engine control modules etc. Various such vehicle circle nodes may be configured to communicate with one another.

Communications between modules and members of a vehicular SNET circle sub circle can be conducted at least in part over a vehicle network using a standard protocol such as Vehicle Area Network VAN or Controller Area Network CAN . A number of specialized protocols have been developed and are currently employed for vehicular communications but it is anticipated that many of these protocols will eventually be displaced by more conventional networking technologies such as Ethernet and TCP IP. Communications in a vehicular SNET circle sub circle may employ wireless communication technologies and or physical transmission media such as single wire and twisted pair cabling fiber optics power line communications e.g. power grid connections via a charging station for battery powered vehicles etc.

The medical SNET circle sub circle may further include or interface with medical devices and health monitors human or patient SNET members including respective SNET sub circles comprised of one or more social medical devices and health monitors medical providers doctors nursing staffs clinics etc. hospitals with or without separate registries researchers regulators insurance companies medical device and equipment manufacturers and national disease programs and non profits etc.

Certain embodiments may involve docking of medical devices and health monitors for purposes of user elderly health monitoring and reporting or to generate medical and risk profiles. For example social insulin pumps create grouping opportunities with researchers doctors nursing staff diabetic message boards help or volunteer resources pump management and testing emergency ambulance notifications etc.

The medical SNET circle sub circle may also include anonymous genome SNET circles which are formed for example automatically upon uploading of a user genome and may involve polymorphism phenotype sub circles information regarding genetic defects associated with disease or malfunctions etc. Genome statistics gathering can be based not only on medical information but also on genome participants own CV input. In another embodiment a family tree SNET sub circle is formed for sharing of genetic information establishing paternity identifying possible relatives making connections at different levels of ancestry based on family tree information etc. Such SNET circles may be integrated with bioinformatics social medical equipment members ancestry information DNA databanks etc.

As may be used herein the terms substantially and approximately provides an industry accepted tolerance for its corresponding term and or relativity between items. Such an industry accepted tolerance ranges from less than one percent to fifty percent and corresponds to but is not limited to component values integrated circuit process variations temperature variations rise and fall times and or thermal noise. Such relativity between items ranges from a difference of a few percent to magnitude differences. As may also be used herein the term s operably coupled to coupled to and or coupling includes direct coupling between items and or indirect coupling between items via an intervening item e.g. an item includes but is not limited to a component an element a circuit and or a module where for indirect coupling the intervening item does not modify the information of a signal but may adjust its current level voltage level and or power level. As may further be used herein inferred coupling i.e. where one element is coupled to another element by inference includes direct and indirect coupling between two items in the same manner as coupled to . As may even further be used herein the term operable to or operably coupled to indicates that an item includes one or more of power connections input s output s etc. to perform when activated one or more its corresponding functions and may further include inferred coupling to one or more other items. As may still further be used herein the term associated with includes direct and or indirect coupling of separate items and or one item being embedded within another item. As may be used herein the term compares favorably indicates that a comparison between two or more items signals etc. provides a desired relationship. For example when the desired relationship is that signal has a greater magnitude than signal a favorable comparison may be achieved when the magnitude of signal is greater than that of signal or when the magnitude of signal is less than that of signal .

As may also be used herein the terms processing module processing circuit and or processing unit may be a single processing device or a plurality of processing devices. Such a processing device may be a microprocessor micro controller digital signal processor microcomputer central processing unit field programmable gate array programmable logic device state machine logic circuitry analog circuitry digital circuitry and or any device that manipulates signals analog and or digital based on hard coding of the circuitry and or operational instructions. The processing module module processing circuit and or processing unit may be or further include memory and or an integrated memory element which may be a single memory device a plurality of memory devices and or embedded circuitry of another processing module module processing circuit and or processing unit. Such a memory device may be a read only memory random access memory volatile memory non volatile memory static memory dynamic memory flash memory cache memory and or any device that stores digital information. Note that if the processing module module processing circuit and or processing unit includes more than one processing device the processing devices may be centrally located e.g. directly coupled together via a wired and or wireless bus structure or may be distributed e.g. cloud computing via indirect coupling via a local area network and or a wide area network . Further note that if the processing module module processing circuit and or processing unit implements one or more of its functions via a state machine analog circuitry digital circuitry and or logic circuitry the memory and or memory element storing the corresponding operational instructions may be embedded within or external to the circuitry comprising the state machine analog circuitry digital circuitry and or logic circuitry. Still further note that the memory element may store and the processing module module processing circuit and or processing unit executes hard coded and or operational instructions corresponding to at least some of the steps and or functions illustrated in one or more of the Figures. Such a memory device or memory element can be included in an article of manufacture.

The present invention has been described above with the aid of method steps illustrating the performance of specified functions and relationships thereof. The boundaries and sequence of these functional building blocks and method steps have been arbitrarily defined herein for convenience of description. Alternate boundaries and sequences can be defined so long as the specified functions and relationships are appropriately performed. Any such alternate boundaries or sequences are thus within the scope and spirit of the claimed invention. Further the boundaries of these functional building blocks have been arbitrarily defined for convenience of description. Alternate boundaries could be defined as long as the certain significant functions are appropriately performed. Similarly flow diagram blocks may also have been arbitrarily defined herein to illustrate certain significant functionality. To the extent used the flow diagram block boundaries and sequence could have been defined otherwise and still perform the certain significant functionality. Such alternate definitions of both functional building blocks and flow diagram blocks and sequences are thus within the scope and spirit of the claimed invention. One of average skill in the art will also recognize that the functional building blocks and other illustrative blocks modules and components herein can be implemented as illustrated or by discrete components application specific integrated circuits processors executing appropriate software and the like or any combination thereof.

The present invention may have also been described at least in part in terms of one or more embodiments. An embodiment of the present invention is used herein to illustrate the present invention an aspect thereof a feature thereof a concept thereof and or an example thereof. A physical embodiment of an apparatus an article of manufacture a machine and or of a process that embodies the present invention may include one or more of the aspects features concepts examples etc. described with reference to one or more of the embodiments discussed herein. Further from figure to figure the embodiments may incorporate the same or similarly named functions steps modules etc. that may use the same or different reference numbers and as such the functions steps modules etc. may be the same or similar functions steps modules etc. or different ones.

Unless specifically stated to the contra signals to from and or between elements in a figure of any of the figures presented herein may be analog or digital continuous time or discrete time and single ended or differential. For instance if a signal path is shown as a single ended path it also represents a differential signal path. Similarly if a signal path is shown as a differential path it also represents a single ended signal path. While one or more particular architectures are described herein other architectures can likewise be implemented that use one or more data buses not expressly shown direct connectivity between elements and or indirect coupling between other elements as recognized by one of average skill in the art.

The term module is used in the description of the various embodiments of the present invention. A module includes a processing module a functional block hardware and or software stored on memory for performing one or more functions as may be described herein. Note that if the module is implemented via hardware the hardware may operate independently and or in conjunction software and or firmware. As used herein a module may contain one or more sub modules each of which may be one or more modules.

While particular combinations of various functions and features of the present invention have been expressly described herein other combinations of these features and functions are likewise possible. The present invention is not limited by the particular examples disclosed herein and expressly incorporates these other combinations.

