---

title: Gas turbine engine
abstract: A gas turbine engine with a compressor rotor having compressor impulse blades that delivers gas at supersonic conditions to a stator. The stator includes a one or more aerodynamic ducts that each have a converging portion and a diverging portion for deceleration of the selected gas to subsonic conditions and to deliver a high pressure oxidant containing gas to flameholders. The flameholders may be provided as trapped vortex combustors, for combustion of a fuel to produce hot pressurized combustion gases. The hot pressurized combustion gases are choked before passing out of an aerodynamic duct to a turbine. Work is recovered in a turbine by expanding the combustion gases through impulse blades. By balancing the axial loading on compressor impulse blades and turbine impulse blades, asymmetrical thrust is minimized or avoided.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09279334&OS=09279334&RS=09279334
owner: Dresser-Rand Company
number: 09279334
owner_city: Olean
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120706
---
This application claims priority from prior pending U.S. Provisional patent applications each of which was filed on Jul. 9 2011 as U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 506 055 for a SUPERSONIC COMPRESSOR as U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 506 064 for a GAS TURBINE ENGINE WITH SUPERSONIC COMPRESSOR and as U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 506 073 for a GAS TURBINE ENGINE each of which are incorporated herein in their entirety by this reference.

This invention was made with United States Government support under Contract No. DE FE0000493 awarded by the United States Department of Energy. The United States Government has certain rights in the invention.

A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material that is subject to copyright protection. The applicant has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent document or the patent disclosure as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent file or records but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever.

This description relates to gas turbine engines and more particularly to gas turbine engines which provide supersonic shock compression of an inlet gas such as ambient air.

A continuing interest exists in industry for improved gas turbine engines. For many reasons gas turbine engines continue to be useful in a wide variety of applications. Operational costs could be substantially improved in many applications by adoption of an improved gas turbine engine that would increase operating efficiency as compared to currently utilized gas turbine designs. Further from the point of view of maintenance costs it would be desirable to develop improved gas turbine engine designs that reduce the mass of rotating components since such rotating components are comparatively costly when replacement or repair becomes necessary as compared to non rotating parts which although subject to stress and strain from temperature and pressure are not subject to additional loads due to rotary motion. Thus it can be appreciated that it would be advantageous to provide a new high efficiency gas turbine design which minimizes moving parts. Generally it would be advantageous to provide more horsepower with less weight. And more specifically it would be advantageous to provide small gas turbines having a relatively high overall efficiency particularly in the one half to three megawatt range.

Components of gas turbine engines include a compressor a combustor a nozzle or choke and a turbine. Although supersonic compressors have been contemplated for use in gas turbine engines in so far as we are aware there remain various technical problems in the field and with respect to which better solutions are required in order to improve operational capability and compression efficiency. In particular although relatively low pressure ratio supersonic compressors have been proposed for gas turbine engines there still remains a need for gas turbine engines that can be easily started yet be operated at high compression ratios. Further it would be advantageous to avoid configurations that present moving shocks such as between moving blades or between moving and fixed blades or between moving blades and fixed walls in order to more simply achieve stability for normal shock location in the compressor of a gas turbine engine. Further new designs that might reduce or minimize mechanical issues such as axial thrust loading and the requirement for expensive bearings and related equipment would be desirable.

Although a variety of gas turbine engines with supersonic compressors have been contemplated the work of G. F. Hausmann as reflected in U.S. Pat. No. 2 947 139 issued Apr. 2 1960 and entitled By Pass Turbojet is instructive of such work generally and thus is suggestive of technical problems that remain in the field and with respect to which better solutions are required in order to improve operational capability and compression efficiency. The Hausmann patent describes the use of counter rotating impulse blade rotors or a single rotor in another embodiment with a downstream stator combustor and convergent divergent exhaust nozzle. However that device is directed at aircraft propulsion applications. Flow is maintained substantially axially with attendant losses. And like other prior supersonic compressor designs the design does not address minimization of the total wetted area including the leading edges subject to bow wave shock losses which result in loss of efficiency. And although the Hausmann patent suggests high pressure ratios the pressure ratios noted therein are quoted as being 6 or 7 with adiabatic efficiencies which approach multi stage subsonic compressors. 

In short there remains a need to provide a design for a high pressure ratio such as in excess of seven to one 7 1 or even twice that or more in a supersonic compressor that simultaneously resolves various practical problems seen in previous designs. Such problems include a providing for starting of a compressor designed for high pressure ratio operation so as to control a normal shock wave at an effective location in a supersonic diffuser designed for high pressure ratio and efficient compression b avoiding excessive numbers of leading edge structures such as may be encountered in prior art multi bladed stators and minimizing other losses encountered by a high velocity supersonic gas stream upon entering a diffuser and c providing for effective boundary layer control especially as related to retention of a normal shock at a desirable location in order to achieve high compression ratios in an efficient manner. Further improvements in overall power to weight ratio that is providing power in a small compact package and in overall cycle efficiency thus improving fuel economy would be a distinct advantage in many if not most applications.

A novel gas turbine engine has been developed that in an embodiment utilizes a supersonic compressor in which the total mass foot print and the number of rotating parts has been minimized. In an embodiment the compressor of the gas turbine utilizes impulse blades on a compressor rotor to develop gas velocity in an incoming gas stream to accelerate the incoming gas stream tangentially and axially and to deliver gas flow at supersonic flow conditions to a stator. In an embodiment the impulse blades may include a peripheral shroud. The stator includes a plurality of aerodynamic ducts that utilize supersonic diffusers having a converging inlet cross sectional area in a flow wise direction for decelerating incoming gas. A subsonic diffuser having a diverging outlet cross section area in a flow wise direction is utilized to diffuse the incoming gas and recover pressure energy. In an embodiment a design utilizes aerodynamic ducts which minimize the total number of leading edges and which minimize the length of leading edges exposed to an incoming flow of gas at supersonic conditions. In an embodiment the aerodynamic ducts may be wrapped about a surface of revolution that extends along a longitudinal axis for example a selected cylindrical shape or selected partial conical shape. In various embodiments aerodynamic ducts may be provided in helical helicoidal or spiral configurations. In an embodiment aerodynamic ducts may be provided helically arranged about a longitudinal axis. In an embodiment aerodynamic ducts may be provided in a shape having a relatively constant helical angle. In an embodiment aerodynamic ducts may be provided along a longitudinal centerline in the configuration of a general helix such that the ratio of curvature to torsion is generally constant. Alternately aerodynamic ducts may be provided in a conical helix configuration in the form of a slight spiral as if located over an underlying conic surface. In various embodiments aerodynamic ducts may be either right handed or left handed. In an embodiment the entrance of the aerodynamic ducts may be oriented substantially in concert with the direction of high velocity supersonic gas leaving a compressor rotor directed toward the stator. At least one oblique shock and in an embodiment a series of oblique shocks and a normal shock may be utilized within aerodynamic ducts to efficiently transform the high velocity supersonic incoming gas flow to a high pressure subsonic gas flow. Subsequent to a subsonic diffuser the high pressure gas is directed to a combustor which may be provided with a flameholder in the form of a trapped vortex combustor. Hot high velocity combustion gases are choked through an outlet nozzle and then expanded through one or more turbine stages for recovery of shaft power. In an embodiment the one or more turbine stages may be provided by axial gas turbines. In an embodiment turbine blades may be provided in the form of impulse blades. In an embodiment the turbine blades may also be provided with a peripheral shroud.

For starting supersonic shocks in a compressor for a gas turbine engine aerodynamic ducts may include bypass gas passageway outlets that remove a portion of the incoming gas flow to an extent that facilitates the establishment of supersonic shocks within the aerodynamic duct consistent with a design point for a selected compression ratio inlet Mach number and mass flow of a selected gas. In an embodiment the bypass gas outlets may be utilized to recycle of a portion of incoming gas. In an embodiment particularly for the usual gas turbine application involving compression of ambient air the bypass gas may be simply discharged to the atmosphere. Adjustable internal bypass passageways may be provided for example using doors that are actuated to an open position during startup but which remain closed during normal operation to allow a portion of incoming gas to pass downstream of the throat of the aerodynamic duct while most if not all of the flow remains within in an aerodynamic duct. In an embodiment both bypass gas outlets for removal of a portion of incoming gas and other contraction ratio adjusters including openable doors as just described may be utilized.

For minimization of adverse aerodynamic effects and for improving efficiency of gas flow through an aerodynamic duct one or more boundary layer control structures may be utilized. Such boundary layer control structures may be selected from one or more types of boundary layer control techniques including removal of a portion of gas flow via boundary layer extraction or bleed or by energizing a boundary layer by boundary layer gas injection or by energizing a boundary layer by mixing such as by use of vortex generators.

In an embodiment the compressor of a gas turbine engine as described herein may have a plurality of gas paths that is multiple aerodynamic ducts for generating supersonic shock waves and for allowing subsonic diffusion downstream of a throat portion. Since in an embodiment supersonic shocks may be located within stationary structures such as along a stationary portion of an aerodynamic duct the control of shock location is greatly simplified as compared to various prior art supersonic compressor designs where shocks are located between structures within rotors or between adjacent rotors or between rotors and adjacent stationary structures such as circumferential walls.

Further the location of shocks within stationary aerodynamic ducts avoids parasitic losses that are present in prior art designs due to drag resulting from the rotational movement of various rotor components. More fundamentally an embodiment of the gas turbine compressor design disclosed herein develops high compression ratios with very few aerodynamic leading edge structures particularly stationary structures protruding into the supersonic flow path. In part such improvement is achieved by minimizing the number of aerodynamic ducts. In an embodiment only a single leading edge is provided per aerodynamic duct and thus the number of leading edge surfaces interposed into a supersonic flow stream is minimized. Consequently the compressor design s disclosed herein have the potential to provide highly efficient gas turbines especially when such compressors operate at high compression ratios in a single compression stage. For example and without limitation the gas turbine compressor designs disclosed herein may utilize compressors operating at compression ratios in a single stage in excess of about seven to one 7 1 or about ten to one 10 1 or more or about fifteen to one 15 1 or more or about twenty to one 20 1 or more. Generally the higher the pressure ratio the higher thermal efficiency achievable in a gas turbine engine utilizing designs taught herein.

Finally many variations in gas in flow configurations particularly in detailed rotor blade geometry and in detailed aerodynamic duct geometry may be made by those skilled in the art and to whom this specification is directed without departing from the teachings hereof.

The foregoing figures being merely exemplary contain various elements that may be present or omitted from actual gas turbine engine designs utilizing supersonic compressors according to the principles taught herein. Other designs may use slightly different aerodynamic structures mechanical arrangements or process flow configurations and yet employ the principles described herein or depicted in the drawing figures provided. An attempt has been made to draw the figures in a way that illustrates at least those elements that are significant for an understanding of an exemplary gas turbine engine utilizing a supersonic compressor. Such details should be useful for providing an efficient gas turbine engine design for use in industrial systems. Various disclosed features may be utilized singularly or collectively in accord with the teachings hereof as may be useful in different embodiments or as necessary for a variety of applications depending upon the conditions of service and remain within the scope and coverage of the teachings herein as defined by the appended claims.

The following detailed description and the accompanying figures of the drawing to which it refers are provided describing and illustrating some examples and specific embodiments of various aspects of the invention s set forth herein and are not for the purpose of exhaustively describing all possible embodiments and examples of various aspects of the invention s described and claimed below. Thus this detailed description does not and should not be construed in any way to limit the scope of the invention s claimed in this or in any related application or resultant patent.

To facilitate the understanding of the subject matter disclosed herein a number of terms abbreviations or other shorthand nomenclature are used as set forth herein below. Such definitions are intended only to complement the usage common to those of skill in the art. Any term abbreviation or shorthand nomenclature not otherwise defined shall be understood to have the ordinary meaning as used by those skilled artisans contemporaneous with the first filing of this document.

In this disclosure the term aerodynamic should be understood to include not only the handling of air but also the handling of other gases within the compression and related equipment otherwise described. Thus more broadly the term aerodynamic should be considered herein to include gas dynamic principles for gases other than air. For example although ambient air may be compressed using the compressor of the apparatus described certain gas turbine engine applications exist for other gaseous mixtures some including certain gaseous fuel components and or containing other oxidants and thus as applicable the term aerodynamic duct shall also include the compression of gases or gas mixtures other than ambient air in what may be considered a gas dynamic duct.

The term choke or choked flow may be used to refer to a structure that provides a compressible effect in the flow of a gas and as used herein with respect to hot combustion gases. With initially subsonic upstream conditions the conservation of mass principle requires fluid velocity to increase when the fluid flows through a smaller cross sectional area of a restriction or choke . At the same time a Venturi effect causes the static pressure and therefore the density to decrease downstream past the restriction or choke . For homogeneous gases the physical point at which the choking occurs for adiabatic conditions is when the exit plane velocity is at sonic conditions or at a Mach number of 1. At choked flow the mass flow rate can be increased by increasing the upstream pressure or by decreasing the upstream temperature.

The term contraction ratio may be used to describe the ratio of the cross sectional area at a throat of an aerodynamic duct to the cross sectional area at the inlet of the aerodynamic duct. Boundary layer growth inside a converging inlet portion of decreasing cross sectional area of a supersonic diffuser may effectively decrease area available for gas flow and thus decrease the effective contraction ratio particularly at startup of an aerodynamic duct. Removal of such a boundary layer may be employed to effectively increase the throat area and thus permit starting of an aerodynamic duct at a contraction ratio smaller than a theoretical value for design conditions of a particular aerodynamic duct. Thus an effective contraction ratio may be adjusted by removal of a portion of an inlet gas.

The term diffuser may be used to describe an apparatus designed to reduce the velocity and increase the pressure of a gas entering at supersonic velocity. A diffuser may employ one or more aerodynamic ducts which when multiple aerodynamic ducts are used divide the incoming gas into smaller flows for processing. Such aerodynamic ducts in a diffuser may include a a supersonic diffuser portion which may be in the form of a converging inlet portion having an inlet cross sectional area and thence constructed generally of decreasing cross sectional area flow wise and which receives gas at supersonic velocity and creates oblique shocks b a throat portion at or in which in a minimal throat cross sectional area is provided and c a subsonic diffuser portion which may be in the form of a diverging outlet portion of increasing cross section toward a final subsonic diffuser cross sectional area and which allows kinetic energy from gas velocity to be converted into static pressure of the gas.

The term impulse blade s may be used to describe blades used to accelerate the flow of gas having a characteristic geometry wherein kinetic energy is imparted to the gas passing therethrough and at a theoretical limit no pressure increase is imparted to the gas passing therethrough. Thus in impulse blades as described herein the work done on a gas flow by impulse blades results predominantly in an increase in velocity rather than predominantly in an increase in pressure. The velocity increase of a gas flow through impulse blades is achieved by change of direction of the gas flow.

The term inlet may be used herein to define an opening designed for receiving fluid flow and more specifically the flow of gas. For example in an aerodynamic duct for a diffuser of in a compressor section of a gas turbine the aerodynamic duct has an inlet having an inlet cross sectional area that is shaped to capture and ingest gas to be compressed. Inlets may have a large variety of shapes and a few exemplary shapes are provided herein.

The term startup may be used to define the process of initiating gas flow in aerodynamic ducts and achieving stable supersonic flow of gas through a converging portion and into at least some of a diverging portion of generally increasing cross sectional area extending downstream from a throat of an aerodynamic duct. More specifically startup is the achievement of a condition wherein shock waves defining the boundary between supersonic and subsonic conditions of gas flow are stabilized at a desired location in an aerodynamic duct given the mass flow inlet Mach number and pressure ratio for a selected gas composition being compressed. In general various structures and or systems as described herein may be used for startup in order to conduct the process of initiating operation and establishing a stable shock system in aerodynamic ducts. In various embodiments a contraction ratio adjuster of a selected design and configuration may be provided allowing for a shock to be swallowed through a throat in an aerodynamic duct to thereby start the aerodynamic duct. In other embodiments contraction ratio may be adjusted using a startup system having bypass outlet passageways that allow external discharge of a portion of the inlet gas flow thereto in order to provide for startup again by allowing a shock to be swallowed through a throat in an aerodynamic duct. In other embodiments aerodynamic ducts may be configured to allow a portion of the gas flow thereto to internally bypass the throat and return to the aerodynamic duct downstream of the throat. Such gas flow may be contained by a pressurizable plenum and reintroduced into a diverging portion of an aerodynamic duct. The performance of the aerodynamic ducts when in a startup configuration may be provided in a manner that would be roughly the same as might be found in an aerodynamic duct without adjustable gas flow and having the approximately same effective contraction ratio that is subject to the same the degree of blockage of flow through the aerodynamic duct as in a fixed geometry aerodynamic duct. However once startup is achieved and stable supersonic flow is established bypass valves gates doors or other structures and systems employed to provide for removal or bypass of some gas with respect to the throat may be closed or returned to an operating position or operating condition. Thereafter in an operational configuration a gas turbine engine as described herein provides aerodynamic ducts wherein a high overall pressure ratio recovery is achieved even when a single stage of compression is employed.

The term un start condition may be used herein to describe a flow condition under which gas to be compressed flows through an inlet to an aerodynamic duct much less effectively than under design conditions and wherein some or even most of entering gas may be rejected from the inlet instead of being properly ingested for effective operation of the compressor. In various embodiments during an un start condition supersonic flow conditions with stable shocks would not be properly established at their design range locations within an aerodynamic duct.

Attention is directed to . In a schematic cross sectional view taken flow wise along the gas flow path in a compact gas turbine engine is shown. provides reference for the basic components of a compact gas turbine engine . A compact gas turbine engine may utilize a supersonic compressor a combustor such as a trapped vortex combustor to burn fuel and produce hot combustion gases which traverse downstream to a nozzle or choke as shown in . As seen in in an embodiment the nozzle choke may be configured as a supersonic nozzle in which case a supersonic shock Smay be located downstream of the minimum area portion of nozzle choke . Downstream of the choke hot pressurized and high velocity combustion gases are then directed to for passage therethrough blades and blades if present as shown in of a gas turbine to produce shaft power which may be utilized by suitable load noted in . Exhaust gases are discharged or used in cogeneration process schemes not shown as appropriate for a particular application. A portion of the power produced may be transmitted to the compressor or more specifically compressor rotor via a shaft to process an inlet gas such as ambient air . The gas turbine may include one or more gas turbines. In an embodiment gas turbine may include a single gas turbine rotor disc with turbine blades for expansion of hot pressurized and high velocity combustion gases . In an embodiment turbine blades may be provided as impulse blades. In an embodiment turbine blades may be provided with a peripheral shroud as seen in .

Returning to the illustration of the compressor rotor includes a plurality of blades extending into a gas flow passage . Compressor blades may be sized and shaped to act on a selected inlet gas such as ambient air or other selected oxidant containing gas to provide a supersonic gas flow at an inlet to an aerodynamic duct . In an embodiment the compressor blades may be provided as impulse blades. In an embodiment the compressor blades may be provided with a peripheral shroud . The gas flowing at supersonic conditions encounters the converging inlet portion and diverging outlet portion . In the converging inlet portion shock structures occur in the gas flow and at least one oblique shock Soccurs although a number of shocks in a series from Sto Smay be utilized. After startup a number of shock structures in a series from Sto Smay appear in an operating configuration for the gas turbine engine and a normal shock Smay be provided at an operating position located at or downstream of the throat O.

Since the compressor blades primarily impart kinetic energy to the inlet gas and since the turbine blades primarily extract kinetic energy from the hot high velocity combustion gases when the compressor rotor blades and the turbine blades are coupled together through attendant compressor rotor and turbine rotor respectively and shaft or the like as noted in loading on the plurality of compressor rotor blades and on the plurality of turbine blades may be substantially balanced to minimize asymmetrical axial thrust loading such as along shaft . This feature may enable the use of lower cost bearings since high thrust loads may be avoided. As shown in when shaft driven by turbine drives the compressor via rotor gas leaves the compressor rotor blades traveling in substantially the same direction as gas see also which is entering turbine blades . Accordingly the turbine and compressor rotor may be configured to turn in the same direction. Such direction may be in either clockwise rotation or in counterclockwise rotation as suitable for a particular design when viewed along path of gas entering the compressor blades as noted in .

Turning now to a stator is illustrated in location between the upstream compressor blades and the downstream turbine blades . In an embodiment stator may be disposed around a longitudinal axis shown with centerline Cin and positioned to receive the supersonic gas flow in aerodynamic ducts . In an embodiment the stator may be provided with a plurality of aerodynamic ducts . In the various drawing figures the one or more aerodynamic ducts may be individually further identified with a subscript as a first aerodynamic duct a second aerodynamic duct a third aerodynamic duct a fourth aerodynamic duct and a fifth aerodynamic duct and the like for each individual aerodynamic ducts that may be utilized in a specific stator design. Aerodynamic ducts each include a converging portion forming a supersonic diffuser and a diverging portion forming a subsonic diffuser as better seen in . provides a circumferential view sectioned through the middle of the aerodynamic ducts to provide visibility of the aforementioned converging portions each forming a supersonic diffuser and diverging portions each forming a subsonic diffuser in each of the individual aerodynamic ducts. Also shown is the location of combustors and the nozzle choke just upstream of the turbine blades . For each of combustors and nozzle choke subscripts are used to denote association with a particular aerodynamic duct in the same manner as subscripts are explained just above with respect to usage with aerodynamic ducts themselves without need for further explanation.

In an embodiment as seen for example in or a stator may include therein one or more structures that enable startup and one or more structures that provide for control of boundary layer losses as more fully addressed below. In an embodiment bypass gas passageways as shown in may be provided for removal of a portion of incoming gas during startup conditions so as to adjust the effective contraction ratio of the associated aerodynamic duct here illustrated as duct . In such manner or using other structures described or suggested herein aerodynamic ducts may be designed for operation at high compression ratios yet be adapted for startup of a stable supersonic shock system within the aerodynamic duct that ultimately enables high compression ratio operation.

In an embodiment aerodynamic ducts may include one or more boundary layer control structures such as bleed ports as seen in for removal of gas from aerodynamic ducts as may be required for control of boundary layer exaggerated for illustration see or at surface of the aerodynamic duct sending gas to sub chamber therebelow.

Returning to the gas turbine engine may utilize a compressor see having a rotor see having an axis of rotation and for example a driving shaft and a plurality of blades extending into a gas flow passage . Blades may be sized and shaped to act on a selected incoming gas to provide a supersonic gas flow . A number N of aerodynamic ducts and a number B of blades may be provided with the number B of blades and the number N of aerodynamic ducts being unequal in order to avoid adverse harmonic effects. Aerodynamic losses are reduced by minimizing the number N of aerodynamic ducts and more specifically by reducing the number of components exposed to the supersonic incoming gas stream . Thus in an embodiment the number of blades may considerably exceed the number of aerodynamic ducts thereby reducing components exposed to supersonic flow. However any ratio between the number B of blades and the number N of aerodynamic ducts should be selected to avoid adverse harmonic effects.

As seen in the aerodynamic ducts each include a converging portion and a diverging portion . As illustrated in in an embodiment rotor may be configured to turn incoming gas to provide a supersonic relative velocity gas flow at a selected gas rotor exit angle beta relative to the centerline Cof the one or more downstream aerodynamic ducts . In an embodiment the angle beta may be zero degrees 0 and thus a unique incidence angle is provided between the direction of the gas flow and the centerline Cof the one or more downstream aerodynamic ducts such as as shown. Further a rotor and a stator together provide a stage of compression. In cases where further compression is required multiple stages of compression may be utilized to provide gas at a desired final pressure before combustion. In an embodiment but without limitation the angle beta may be provided at zero degrees 0 wherein the direction of gas flow is aligned with the centerline Cof aerodynamic ducts and thus a unique incidence angle is provided between the direction of the gas flow and the centerline Cof the one or more downstream aerodynamic ducts . In other words in an embodiment a unique incidence angle is provided since the direction of gas flow matches the centerline Cof an aerodynamic duct into which the gas flow occurs. However it should be understood that configurations which are not so precisely aligned may also be workable but it must be noted that if the flow angle beta is not aligned with respect to the aerodynamic ducts a series of shock waves or expansion fans depending on whether the relative angle of attack of the incoming flow is positive or negative will be formed to turn the flow to largely match the flow angle through the aerodynamic ducts along centerline C. Such shock wave or expansion fan systems will result in total pressure loss which will contribute to a decrease in overall compression efficiency and reduce the overall compressor ratio achieved for a given speed of blades . As an example a variation in flow incidence angle beta ranging from about 11.0 to about 8.0 degrees at inflow Mach numbers of from about 2.0 to about 3.0 respectively would result in about three 3 percentage points of efficiency loss. Such increased losses and corresponding decreases in stage efficiency may be acceptable in various applications. However in addition to shock wave or expansion fan conditions resulting in pressure and efficiency loss adverse shock to boundary layer interaction and or boundary layer separation issues may arise as such off design conditions become more severe depending upon the strength of the shock wave system and the thickness of the boundary layer system interacting therewith. And adverse shock wave and accompanying pressure signatures may be expected to reflect from blades especially at the trailing edges thereof potentially increasing stress and reducing life of blades . Consequently embodiments tending to closely align incoming flow angle beta with the centerline Cof aerodynamic ducts should be considered optimal although not limiting.

As shown in in an embodiment a stator may include therein one or more structures that enable startup of a shock wave structure for example generation and stabilization of the location of the at least one oblique shock Sand a normal shock S at suitable locations such as are indicated in . As depicted in the stator may also include one or more structures that provide for control of boundary layer losses as more fully addressed below. In an embodiment bypass gas passageways are provided to remove a portion of incoming gas during startup conditions so as to adjust the effective contraction ratio of the associated aerodynamic duct . In this manner aerodynamic ducts may be designed for operation at high compression ratios yet be adapted for startup of a stable supersonic shock wave structure within the aerodynamic duct that ultimately enables transition to high compression ratio operation.

In an embodiment aerodynamic ducts may include one or more boundary layer control structures such as bleed ports as seen in and for removal of gas from aerodynamic ducts as may be required for control of boundary layer at surface of the aerodynamic duct .

Turning again to as an example for a particular design and without limitation flow conditions are described for an embodiment for a design within a selected design envelope for a supersonic compressor for use in a gas turbine engine such as that noted in above. As shown in the rotor includes impulse blades moving in the direction indicated by reference arrow . The use of an impulse rotor enables efficient turning of the flow of an incoming gas especially when utilizing a rotor with sharp leading edges and sharp trailing edges . At location A upstream of rotor a small tangential velocity as compared to tangential velocity after exit from rotor as described below may be encountered prior to the rotor . Upon entry to the rotor gas velocity at location B is accelerated and moves in the direction indicated by reference line . Just prior to leaving the rotor at location C the gas has been partially accelerated. Finally after exit from rotor at location D the gas velocity is at supersonic conditions. Basically compressor impulse blades allow for a high degree of turning of the incoming gas through an angle alpha . Thus in an embodiment the desired supersonic velocity of gas stream entering the aerodynamic ducts is achieved by a combination of velocity of gas through the blades and the tangential rotation of the compressor rotor including blades .

In an embodiment for a supersonic compressor note components illustrated in such as illustrated in the selected inlet gas passing through the blades of the rotor may be turned by an angle alpha of at least ninety 90 degrees at least one hundred 100 degrees at least one hundred ten 110 degrees between about ninety 90 degrees and about one hundred twenty five 125 degrees between about ninety 90 degrees and about one hundred sixty 160 degrees or between about one hundred twelve 112 degrees and about one hundred fourteen 114 degrees. Details of exemplary designs for various impulse type blades for use in supersonic compressors may be found by those of skill in the art from various sources. One helpful reference may include a NASA report entitled Analytical Investigation of Supersonic Turbomachinery Blading Section II Analysis of Impulse Turbine Blade Sections by Louis J. Goldman Published as Report No. NASA TN D 4422 on Apr. 1 1968 which is incorporated herein by reference and to which the reader may refer for additional background in implementing an impulse blade in a supersonic compressor design as further taught herein.

As shown in an embodiment each of the plurality of compressor blades may have a hub end a tip end and a trailing edge . In an embodiment the compressor blades are provided with supersonic gas flow at their trailing edge . In an embodiment supersonic gas flow at the trailing edge may be from the hub end to the tip end of the trailing edge .

As shown in in an embodiment a compressor rotor disc may be provided having a shroud for compressor blades . In an embodiment as noted in the shroud may include labyrinth seal portions and . By use of a labyrinth seal or other suitable seal such as a honeycomb seal a dry gas seal brush seals or other sealing structures the rotor may be effectively sealed with respect to a stator and attendant aerodynamic ducts so as to minimize gas leakage during flow therebetween as may be better appreciated by reference to where shroud of a rotor and peripheral shroud of a turbine are illustrated.

Attention is directed to which illustrates an embodiment for a contraction ratio adjuster which may be utilized for achieving startup of a supersonic shock wave in an aerodynamic duct . In a bypass outlet door provides a bypass outlet opening shown in broken lines between end walls and to allow gas shown by reference arrows and to escape the converging portion of the aerodynamic duct . In an embodiment an actuator may be provided to move bypass outlet door back and forth as noted by reference arrows to open and to close using linkage to pivot bypass outlet door about pivot pin . Actuator may be configured not as a gas barrier or pressurizable part but as a component contained within bypass gas passageway wall and thus escaping bypass gas may continue past actuator as noted. However escaping bypass gas noted by reference arrow is contained by bypass gas passageway wall which provides a pressurizable plenum. Once the space contained within bypass gas passageway wall is pressurized the bypass gas then escapes through the enlarged throat opening O and thence downstream of the throat opening Oas indicated by reference arrow . The enlarged area of Aof throat Owhen in a startup configuration as compared to an area of Aof throat Owhen in an operational configuration enables downstream passage through the aerodynamic duct of bypass gas as indicated by reference arrow . In an embodiment the bypass outlet door may be provided with boundary layer bleed passages for boundary layer bleed as noted by reference arrows and .

Referring back to note that as an example but not as a limitation the bypass gas passageways may be operable during establishment of a supersonic shock during startup. In such case effective contraction ratio may be adjusted for startup using a startup system using bypass gas passageways for collection of a portion of inlet gas. A bypass gas sub chamber adjacent the converging supersonic diffuser portion may be provided for receiving the collected portion of inlet gas. An outlet valve may be provided from the bypass gas sub chamber for discharge during starting of the collected inlet gas .

When the compressor in gas turbine engine is designed for operating at an inlet relative Mach number of about 1.8 for removal of a quantity of from about eleven percent 11 by mass to about nineteen percent 19 by mass of the selected gas captured at the inlet by an aerodynamic duct . As a further example but not as a limitation the bypass gas passageways may be operable during establishment of a supersonic shock during startup when a compressor is designed for operating at an inlet relative Mach number of about 2.8 for removal of a quantity of from about thirty six percent 36 by mass to about sixty one percent 61 by mass of the inlet gas captured at the inlet by an aerodynamic duct . Those of skill in the art and to whom this specification is directed will undoubtedly be able to calculate and thus determine suitable bypass gas quantities that may be useful or required for enabling aerodynamic ducts used in a particular stator given compressor design parameters to swallow a supersonic shock structure and to thus establish a stable supersonic shock structure at a desired location within the aerodynamic duct s . Thus the above noted ranges are to provide to the reader an appreciation of the amount of mass flow that may be required to establish a stable supersonic shock structure and thus eliminate an un started condition in the aerodynamic ducts in a stator. Various aspects of starting requirements are discussed by Lawlor in U.S. Patent Application Publication No. US2009 0196731 A1 Published on Aug. 6 2009 entitled Method and Apparatus for Starting Supersonic Compressors which is incorporated herein in its entirety by this reference. In particular of that publication provides a graphic illustration of typical ranges suitable for starting bypass gas removal requirements shown as starting bleed fraction defined by mass of bypass gas divided by mass of gas captured by the inlet fraction for aerodynamic ducts in a supersonic compressor operating at a selected inlet relative Mach number.

More generally startup of gas turbine engine and more particularly start of a supersonic shock wave is established by opening a contraction ratio adjuster such as bypass gas passageways like bypass outlet door and then bringing the compressor blades up to full speed. Then the bypass outlet door may be smoothly closed to bring the throat O of aerodynamic duct into a design area condition which establishes a design contraction ratio for aerodynamic duct . At that point back pressure that is the static pressure in diverging portion of aerodynamic duct is allowed to rise to establish the design discharge pressure given the overall pressure ratio for operation. Boundary layer control structures are utilized during operation to control boundary layers whether by bleed mixing injection combinations thereof or other suitable means. For shutdown back pressure is reduced supply of fuel is terminated and drive for compressor blades is turned off and the compressor is allowed to spin to a stop.

With respect to boundary layer control structures in an embodiment such structures may be configured as boundary layer bleed ports in the various aerodynamic ducts such as shown in or in . Such boundary layer bleed ports may be provided by perforations in one or more bounding walls such as in surface of a diverging portion in an aerodynamic duct as shown in or . Adjacent the boundary layer bleed ports may be bleed sub chambers such as sub chamber as shown in . Thus a bleed sub chamber may be provided in fluid communication with boundary layer bleed ports and thus bleed sub chambers are configured for passage therethrough of gas removed through the boundary layer bleed ports . Although the boundary layer bleed ports are shown in a diverging portion such bleed ports may be located in other bounding walls of aerodynamic ducts such as on radially outward portions or on sidewalls or on other radial inward portions.

In various embodiments as shown in the one or more aerodynamic ducts are disposed in a stator and may be wrapped around a longitudinal axis shown along the centerline C. In an embodiment as indicated in one or more of the one or more aerodynamic ducts of a stator are wrapped as if over a substantially cylindrical substrate . In such an embodiment aerodynamic ducts may be wrapped at a substantially constant helical angle psi between the longitudinal axis Cshown and the longitudinal centerline C. Alternately the orientation of aerodynamic ducts may be described by use of the complementary lead angle delta as shown in . In an embodiment the longitudinal centerline Cof a first aerodynamic duct and the centerline Cof a second aerodynamic duct and other ducts in the embodiment may be parallel. In various embodiments a helical angle psi w of from about forty five degrees 45 to about eighty degrees 80 may be employed. In the designs disclosed herein it may be advantageous to receive gas in aerodynamic ducts for example in or without turning the flow as delivered from blades .

Overall as may be envisioned from a gas turbine engine with supersonic gas compressor may be provided for compressing a selected gas where the compressor includes a casing having a low pressure gas inlet and an exhaust gas exit . Although compressor rotor with blades may be driven by shaft from gas turbine the choice of driver type and size and associated drive train components such as a gearbox or bearings etc. may be selected by those of skill in the art for a particular application.

Exemplary aerodynamic ducts may be provided in a stator of the type shown in . Aerodynamic ducts may be designed i.e. sized and shaped for an inlet relative Mach number for operation associated with a design operating point selected within a design operating envelope for a selected gas composition gas quantity and gas compression ratio. A gas turbine compressor design may be configured for a selected mass flow that is for a particular quantity of gas that is to be compressed and that gas may have certain inlet conditions with respect to temperature and pressure or an anticipated range of such conditions that must be considered in the design. The incoming gas may be a relatively pure mixture of gases such as ambient air or may be a mixture of various elements and or compounds or the expected supply gas may be expected to range in composition. And it may be desired to achieve a particular final pressure when starting at a given inlet gas pressure and thus a desired gas compression ratio must be selected for a particular gas turbine compressor design. Given design constraints such as gas composition mass flow of gas inlet conditions and desired outlet conditions the aerodynamic ducts for a particular compressor must be sized and shaped for operation at a selected inlet Mach number and gas compression ratio. The designs described herein allow use of high gas compression ratios especially compared to self starting supersonic compressor designs that lack the ability to adjust the effective contraction ratio at time of starting the supersonic shock structure. Thus the designs provided herein provide for compression in aerodynamic ducts which can be started as regards swallowing a shock structure and establishing a stable supersonic shock configuration during operation yet retain design features that enable high pressure ratio operation including oblique shock structure and throat size to support design throughput and compression pressure ratios.

As shown in aerodynamic ducts in stator may be constructed with leading edges . Certain details pertinent to various embodiments are shown in and . In an embodiment is shown for a stator having five 5 aerodynamic ducts through and wherein each of such aerodynamic ducts through includes a leading edge . Generally the sharper the leading edge the better performance will be provided that is losses will be minimized when operating at supersonic conditions at the inlet as compared to use of a leading edge that is not as sharp. As noted in in an embodiment a leading edge may be provided having a leading edge radius R of from about 0.005 inches to about 0.012 inches. Further details are noted in where it can be seen that the leading edge may be provided using a sharp leading edge wedge angle theta which may in an embodiment be between about five 5 degrees and about ten 10 degrees. Also as seen in leading edge may be provided sloping rearward i.e. in a downstream direction at a slope angle mu as measured between the leading edge and a tangent line with underlying radially inward bounding wall . Such sloping leading edge may start at a lower front end and end at an upper rear end . The leading edge may be sealed to or affixed to a radially inward bounding wall at the lower front end and may be sealed to or affixed to for example using welded assembly or otherwise sealingly provided for example machined from a common workpiece with respect to radially outward bounding wall at the upper rear end of leading edge .

As seen in rearward flow wise in the downstream gas flow direction from leading edge a partition wall may be utilized. In various embodiments for example as seen in and a common partition wall may be utilized between adjacent aerodynamic ducts for example between individually identified aerodynamic ducts etc. through duct as depicted in . As shown in partition walls are individually identified as partition walls etc. as appropriate given the number of aerodynamic ducts utilized. In various embodiments a leading edge may provide an upstream terminus for a partition wall such as partition wall .

As illustrated in as an example partition walls and may be provided with split portions and on one side of aerodynamic duct and as and on the other side. In gas turbine engines where dissipation of heat generated in a combustor is of concern cooling passages may be provided within and between at least a portion of partition walls such as walls and . In cooling air passageways are also shown below cavity in combustor for entry of cooling air to base of combustor as indicated by arrows . Likewise cooling may be provided to the base of the aerodynamic duct downstream of the combustor which is in contact with hot pressurized combustion gases . Similarly as noted in both FIGS. and cooling to the outward surface of aerodynamic duct downstream of combustor may be provided by cooling air in double walled coolant passageway . Outward sweep of coolant air is shown by arrows in but various designs may be provided for such cooling and these exemplary embodiments should be considered suggestive not exclusive.

A flameholder which in an embodiment may be provided as combustor or more specifically in the form of a trapped vortex combustor is seen in more detail in . A forebody and an aft body define therebetween a cavity and thus in an embodiment define at least one flameholder for locating stabilized vortices and of burning gases. The stabilized vortices and are fed by a lean premixed fuel arriving from upstream as noted by reference arrows and . Fuel may be provided via primary fuel via secondary fuel and optionally via auxiliary fuel as noted in . The primary fuel may be injected by a fuel supply mechanism such as primary fuel injectors located upstream of combustor in order to supply lean fuel mixture to the combustor . When suitable based on temperature reached during compression ignition temperature of resultant fuel air mixture actual fuel s used etc. as will be understood by those of skill in the art the auxiliary fuel shown in broken lines in may be provided for injection at auxiliary fuel injectors adjacent to inlet of the supersonic diffuser converging inlet portion of an aerodynamic duct . When auxiliary fuel is used fuel air mixing also occurs during combustion gas compression. In any case as shown in a lean pre mixed fuel arrives as indicated by reference arrows and as a result of mixing of primary fuel with incoming compressed gas. The incoming gas for compression may be ambient air in many cases. However it will be understood by those of skill in the art that the described gas turbine engine design may be used with other oxidants and fuel sources as might be encountered in various industrial applications. As shown in and in the use of secondary fuel injectors is noted showing fuel jets of secondary fuel as noted in FIGS. and above supplied by secondary fuel passageway . The fuel jets help stabilize the burning gases in the cavity . Note that vortices and may be formed behind the rear wall of aft body or aft body in and thus when present the aft body or aft body may also be considered a part of the overall flameholder structure and may provide at least a second flameholder structure.

As noted in in an embodiment a small aft body may be provided as compared to aft body illustrated in . As noted in in such an embodiment aft body has a sidewall which is located inwardly by a distance from a slipstream line Srunning rearward from the outer wall of forebody . Use of a smaller aft body may allow development and stable location of suitable trapped vortex structures.

In a gas turbine engine fuel may be provided as a liquid fuel such as a conventional hydrocarbon fuel commercially available for firing of gas turbine engines. Or the gas turbine engine may burn a gaseous fuel such as conventional hydrocarbon fuels commercially available for firing gas turbine engines including natural gas. Notably a gas turbine engine as described herein may be able to burn a wide variety of fuels considering the high speed operation and the flame stability provided by trapped vortex combustors utilized. Further details for an embodiment of suitable trapped vortex combustors and related fuel details may be found in U.S. Pat. No. 7 603 841 B2 issued Oct. 20 2009 to Steele et al. and assigned to Ramgen Power Systems LLC and entitled Vortex Combustor for Low NOx Emissions When Burning Premixed High Hydrogen Content Fuel the disclosure of which including specification drawings and claims is included herein in its entirety by this reference.

In general as seen in aerodynamic ducts are formed between an outward bounding wall and an inward bounding wall each of which in an embodiment may be radially disposed with respect to the other. Downstream as seen in a trapped vortex combustor including the forebody and the aft body may also be formed between and thus provided and extending between a radially outward bounding wall and a radially inward bounding wall .

As may be appreciated by reference to and design for stator may include aerodynamic ducts which are polygonal in cross sectional shape. Such shape may include a variety of bounding walls such as a floor ceiling and sidewalls. As used herein the term radially inward bounding wall as been used to describe what might be also be considered a floor of an aerodynamic duct. As used herein the term radially outward bounding wall has been used to describe what might be also considered a ceiling of an aerodynamic duct. As earlier noted in an embodiment aerodynamic ducts may have a flow centerline Cas shown in . Then in an embodiment orthogonal to the centerline line C the aerodynamic ducts may be provided having a parallelogram cross sectional shape which may in an embodiment be in a generally rectangular cross sectional shape at various points along the aerodynamic duct . In an embodiment the centerline Cmay be oriented in a generally helical configuration. The height H of such a cross section is shown in seen radially outward from a radially inward bounding wall toward a radially outward bounding wall at an entrance location to an aerodynamic duct namely the lower front end of leading edge . The width W of such a cross section is depicted in as between and within adjacent partition walls and . In an embodiment associated with the just noted cross sectional shape the aerodynamic ducts may have an average aspect ratio expressed as width W to height H of about two to one 2 1 or more. In an embodiment the aerodynamic ducts may have an average aspect ratio expressed as width W to height H of about three to one 3 1 or more. In an embodiment the aerodynamic ducts may have an average aspect ratio expressed as width W to height H of about four to one 4 1 or more.

In various embodiments the number of aerodynamic ducts in a stator such as depicted in and may be selected as useful given other design constraints. The number of aerodynamic ducts included may be one or more and more generally in the range of from 1 to 11 or more for example 3 5 7 9 or 11. The number of aerodynamic ducts for a given design may be selected as part of a design exercise that takes into account various factors including the direction of gas flow leaving the rotor blades and the velocity provided thereby and the degree of growth of adverse boundary layers in configurations of various geometry and the number of combustors desired for a given application to deliver the necessary hot pressurized combustion gases see or for a selected power output. In an embodiment the number of leading edges see for an inlet in a stator may be equal to the number of aerodynamic ducts in a stator . In many embodiments design optimization may result in a plurality of aerodynamic ducts so that velocity of gas leaving a compressor blade is maximized and boundary layer growth is minimized. In such embodiments when optimizing a compressor design an odd number 3 5 7 9 or 11 of aerodynamic ducts may be provided and as just mentioned above the number of leading edges such stators would be eleven 11 or less. Generally an unequal number of 1 blades on a rotor and 2 leading edges in an aerodynamic duct are selected. By selection of an odd number of blades in a compressor rotor see an even number of aerodynamic ducts may be provided for example 2 4 6 8 10 or more. Similar considerations must be taken into account in the selection of the number of turbine blades . In related parameters in an exemplary stator the number of leading edges in a stator see and would be about one half or less than the number of blades provided in a rotor . In another embodiment the number of leading edges in a stator would be about one quarter or less than the number of blades in a rotor . In a yet more efficient design it is currently anticipated that the number of leading edges in a stator would be about fifteen percent 15 or less of the number of blades in a rotor . Minimizing the number of leading edges and related aerodynamic ducts minimizes drag and efficiency loss compared to various prior art stators particularly those prior art designs utilizing stator blades in number commensurate with or equivalent to the number of rotor blades provided.

More generally a gas turbine engine including a compressor and turbine as described herein may be designed for providing gas to aerodynamic ducts such as aerodynamic duct as seen in at an inlet relative Mach number in excess of about 1.8. Further a compressor may be designed for an inlet relative Mach number to aerodynamic ducts of at least 2. Even further a compressor for a gas turbine engine as described herein may be designed for an inlet relative Mach number to aerodynamic ducts of at least 2.5. And operation of supersonic compressors described herein is anticipated to be possible at designs having an inlet relative Mach number to aerodynamic ducts in excess of about 2.5. For many applications a practical design is anticipated to utilize an inlet relative Mach number to aerodynamic ducts between about 2 and about 2.5 inclusive of such bounding parameters. Further for various applications as an example and not as a limitation practical designs may be anticipated to utilize an inlet relative Mach number to aerodynamic ducts in the range of between about 2.5 and about 2.8. Consequently the Mach number achievable for various designs should not be considered limited by such above noted suggestions as an evaluation of design Mach numbers for particular applications may include a variety of design considerations.

Gas turbine engines with compressors as described herein may be provided for operation within a design operating envelope having overall gas compression ratio greater than about seven to one 7 1 . In yet other applications compressors as described herein may be provided for operation within a design operating envelope having an overall pressure ratio in the range of from about ten to one 10 1 to about twenty to one 20 1 . In an embodiment the gas turbine engine described herein may be provided for operation within a design operating envelope having an overall compression ratio in a stage of compression of from about twelve to one 12 1 to about thirty to one 30 1 . In an embodiment the gas turbine engine described herein may be provided for operation within a design operating envelope having an overall compression ratio in a stage of compression of from about thirty to one 30 1 to about forty to one 40 1 In an embodiment the gas turbine engine described herein may be provided for operation within a design operating envelope having an overall compression ratio in a stage of compression of greater than about twenty to one 20 1 . In an embodiment wherein overall pressure ratio is about fifteen to one 15 1 or more the gas turbine engine described herein may have a thermal efficiency of about thirty five percent 35 or more. In an embodiment wherein overall pressure ratio is about twenty to one 20 1 or more the gas turbine engine described herein may have a thermal efficiency of about forty five percent 45 or more.

Increasing operational overall pressure ratio of the compressor of a gas turbine engine may provide increased thermal efficiency and thus better ratio of power output to energy fuel input. In one example the compression may be effectively accomplished using the compressor configuration s taught herein utilizing rotors with high strength and using a shrouded blade configuration. Such a design must be able to operate at high rotational rates to provide sufficient peripheral speed in order achieve a suitable supersonic design velocity at time of entry of gas to the aerodynamic ducts of a stator. Further advances in materials and manufacturing techniques may enable designs at even higher speeds and pressure ratios or may provide reduced risk of mechanical failures when operating at or near the conditions noted herein.

Further to the details noted above it must be reiterated that the aerodynamic ducts described herein may be utilized in configurations built on various substrate structural designs and achieve the benefit of high compression ratio operation while providing necessary features for starting of supersonic operation. In various embodiments a plurality of aerodynamic ducts may be configured as if wrapped about a surface of revolution as provided by such static structure. In an embodiment a suitable static structure may be substantially cylindrical and thus in an embodiment the ducts may be configured wrapped around the cylindrical structure. In an embodiment the aerodynamic ducts of a stator may be provided in a spiral configuration. In an embodiment the aerodynamic ducts of a stator may be provided in helical or helicoidal configuration such as may be generated along a centerline by rotating an entrance plane shape about a longitudinal axis at a fixed rate and simultaneously translating it in the downstream direction of the longitudinal axis also at a fixed rate. Thus the term wrapped around a longitudinal axis shall be considered to include wrapping around such various shapes as applicable.

In summary the various embodiments using aerodynamic ducts as taught herein provide significantly improved performance over prior art bladed stator designs operating at supersonic inlet conditions particularly in their ability to provide high total and static pressure ratios. In one aspect this is because utilizing a minimum number of aerodynamic ducts and associated leading edge structures reduces loss associated with entry of high velocity gas into a stator. Moreover the reduced static structure correspondingly reduces compressor weight and cost especially compared to prior art designs utilizing large numbers of conventional airfoil shaped stator blades. Thus incorporation of the novel compressor design described herein enables construction of a high efficiency yet small and compact gas turbine engine.

Many benefits may accrue by utilizing a method of operating a compact gas turbine engine as provided herein. Power to weight ratio is expected to be quite high compared to presently available equipment particularly in the 0.5 megawatt MW to about 3 megawatt MW size. And given the rather high thermal efficiencies when running higher overall pressure ratios fuel savings may be available in many applications by use of a compact gas turbine generator as provided herein.

A method of operating a gas turbine engine can be understood by reference to and references in this and the following paragraph may be considered to refer to components similarly identified without the necessity at this point of repeating the identification of each specific component. A method for operating a gas turbine engine involves providing a compressor rotor having a plurality of compressor impulse blades sized and shaped to increase velocity of air received from said inlet gas passageway from a relative subsonic velocity to a relative supersonic velocity. A stator is provided downstream of the compressor impulse blades. In an embodiment a stator may include a plurality of aerodynamic ducts. As illustrated in the aerodynamic ducts may each include 1 a supersonic diffuser including a portion having a converging cross sectional area in a flow wise direction for receiving gas such as air at supersonic velocity and decelerating the same using shock structures including at least one oblique shock 2 a subsonic diffuser the subsonic diffuser including a portion having diverging cross sectional area in a flow wise direction for decelerating the air to convert kinetic energy to pressurized air 3 a throat the throat located between said to supersonic diffuser and said subsonic diffuser and including a portion having minimal cross sectional area within the aerodynamic duct 4 a fuel supply mechanism for supply of fuel 5 a flameholder spaced downstream from the throat sufficiently to accept pressurized air from the subsonic diffuser and 6 a choke. Fuel which may be a liquid fuel or a gaseous fuel such as natural gas is provided to flameholders which may be provided in the form of trapped vortex combustion burners that provide one or more flameholding cavities. The fuel which may include lean premixed fuels is combusted to generate combustion gases having increased pressure and temperature as compared to the pressurized air. A gas turbine is provided located downstream of the choke. The gas turbine may include a turbine shaft a turbine disc and a plurality of impulse turbine blades associated the turbine disc and configured to receive the combustion gases from the aerodynamic ducts. The gas turbine extracts power from said combustion gases to produce shaft power. After passage through the turbine the combustion gas is discharged.

For starting of the gas turbine compressor a contraction ratio adjuster may be provided. A contraction ratio adjuster may have a startup configuration wherein a contraction ratio in aerodynamic ducts is decreased so as to allow inlet gas to bypass the throat and an operating configuration wherein inlet gas bypass of the throat is effectively eliminated. In an embodiment a contraction ratio adjuster may be provided in the form of bypass outlet doors. The bypass outlet doors may be moveable between an open startup configuration wherein gas escapes from aerodynamic ducts containing the bypass outlet door and a closed operating configuration where gas passing through the aerodynamic duct is effectively contained therein save for any boundary layer bleed or other service loss such as cooling gas. In a method of operating a contraction ratio adjuster the contraction ratio adjuster may further include and work in concert with a pressurizable plenum. A suitable pressurizable plenum confines gas escaping an aerodynamic duct through a bypass outlet door and allows return of the gas to an aerodynamic duct downstream of the throat.

In various embodiments of a gas turbine engine as provided herein and in various methods of operating such gas turbines an overall pressure ratio of about ten to one 10 1 or larger may be provided with a thermal efficiency of about thirty five percent 35 or more. In an embodiment an overall pressure ratio may be provided in the range of from about fifteen to one 15 1 to about twenty to one 20 1 . In an embodiment an overall pressure ratio of about fifteen to one 15 1 or larger or may be provided with a thermal efficiency of about forty two percent 42 or more. In another embodiment an overall pressure ratio of about twenty to one 20 1 or more may be provided and the thermal efficiency may be at about forty two percent 42 or more for example at about forty five percent 45 or more. In an embodiment an overall pressure ratio in the range of from about twenty to one 20 1 to about thirty to one 30 1 may be provided and the thermal efficiency may be in the range of from about forty percent 40 to about forty five percent 45 or more for example at about forty two percent 42 or more. In an embodiment an overall pressure ratio in the range of from about thirty to one 30 1 to about forty to one 40 1 may be provided and the thermal efficiency may be in the range of from about forty percent 40 to about forty five percent 45 or more for example at about forty two percent 42 or more.

The compressor section of the gas turbine engine utilizes a shock wave compression process that combines a rotor with a downstream supersonic shock diffuser or stator to achieve exceptionally high compression ratios and efficiencies simultaneously. The turbine section utilizes a supersonic expander section that is a nozzle choke followed by one or more turbine rotor s . In an embodiment high subsonic velocity hot combustion exhaust gases leave the supersonic nozzle chock expander and impinge on the blades of the turbine rotor s . In an embodiment the one or more turbine rotor s are matched to the compressor rotor. In an embodiment the compressor and at least one of the one or more turbine rotor s may be mounted at opposite ends of a common shaft . In an embodiment the combustor section may be stationary. In an embodiment the diffuser stator and the nozzle choke sections may be stationary. Various components may be provided about shaft to form a core for the gas turbine engine .

In one aspect the turbine rotor inlet temperature commonly abbreviated as TRIT may be maintained at an elevated temperature in the gas turbine engine disclosed herein as compared to prior art designs. In conventional turbine designs the turbine rotor inlet temperature TRIT is limited by the combination of thermal and rotating stresses that act on the rotating turbine components which are normally located immediately downstream of the combustor section. In some prior art designs blade cooling and advanced materials are used in order to elevate the TRIT as a means to improve overall engine efficiency but at substantial added cost and consequently such solutions are usually implemented only in larger size units. In contrast in the gas turbine engine designs described herein the key gas temperature parameter that is the turbine rotor inlet temperature TRIT may be maintained at a significantly elevated temperature since when such gas temperature is actually carefully considered relative to the moving reference plane such gas temperature is significantly lower in such reference plane than found in conventional gas turbine designs as at time such hot gases engage the turbine blades.

In so far as we are aware the current most advanced state of the art for TRIT is about 1600 C. 2912 F. at a pressure ratio of about 23 1 and with power output in the range of about 320 MW to 460 MW. However since various embodiments of the gas turbine engine design set forth herein place the turbine rotor components downstream of both the combustor section and the nozzle choke expander section significant pressure and temperature reductions occur by the time the hot exhaust gas flow reaches the rotating component interface that is reaches the rotating components of the gas turbine. Thus in the designs described herein the TRIT can be and is designed for and maintained at significantly elevated temperatures because in the disclosed gas turbine engine configuration the structural components exposed to the peak cycle gas temperatures are stationary components e.g. in an embodiment the outlet of combustor and the nozzle choke components . Such stationary components have a much wider range of material choices for use in their respective service at the high temperatures presented and as regards applicable temperature limits of such materials during operation.

For a calorically perfect ideal process gas the temperature at the turbine rotor can be determined using the following formula

As can be seen the pressure expansion ratio and the temperature ratio can be raised together in the cycle design for a particular gas turbine engine to applicable limits of sustainable material temperatures at the shock expander section rotor interface. Thus a higher peak cycle gas temperature that is the TRIT improves overall cycle efficiency for a particular gas turbine engine design.

With respect to turbine efficiency and expansion ratio the supersonic expander and rotor combination taught herein can achieve single stage expansion with corresponding turbine polytropic efficiency levels of over 91 . Yet even at such expansion ratios the turbine rotor experiences inlet gas temperatures of only about 1200 F. while the combustor discharge and therefore the thermodynamic peak cycle gas temperatures could be as high as 2500 F. Consequently the disclosed gas turbine engine architecture which places the turbine rotor downstream of the hot exhaust gas supersonic nozzle choke section allows the use of a TRIT that is significantly greater than current industry practice which utilizes blade cooling to compensate for significantly elevated turbine rotor inlet temperatures TRITs and thus allows conventional metallurgy components with no cooling yet still approaches allowable peak cycle gas temperatures of cooled turbine rotor designs.

The gas turbine engine described herein can thus achieve exceptionally high single stage compression ratios in part due to the use of boundary layer control techniques utilized with a shock compression process. In an embodiment such technique bleeds a boundary layer off the compression surfaces thus providing exceptionally clean flow throughout the compression process. In many prior art designs bleed flow is treated as a parasitic loss to the cycle efficiency. However in an embodiment in the gas turbine engine described herein the bleed flow is first used to provide on engine combustor liner cooling and then may be re injected into the turbine working fluid in the turbine expansion section however upstream of the turbine rotor itself thus allowing for full recovery of compressor bleed and any heat associated with combustor liner cooling. Such effects in the gas turbine engine architecture described herein allow the gas turbine engine to operate at substantially higher pressure ratios and therefore substantially higher TRIT as well as compared to conventional gas turbine engine designs.

Attention is further directed to which provides a partial cross sectional view of an embodiment for a gas turbine engine generally configured according to the design first set forth in showing a blade of a compressor rotor and showing an embodiment for a downstream stator . As depicted the converging portion include bypass gas passageways with associated bypass gas sub chamber which may be utilized during operation for collection of gas associated with boundary layer control for example in an embodiment at a pressure in sub chamber of about 200 pounds per square inch psi . Likewise boundary layer gas may be removed from diverging portion via bleed ports as also seen in above for removal of gas from aerodynamic ducts sending gas to sub chamber therebelow for example in an embodiment at a pressure in sub chamber of about 250 pounds per square inch psi . An intermediate chamber may be operated at a reduced pressure of about 100 pounds per square inch to receive gas from sub chamber and gas from sub chamber . Likewise a low pressure chamber may be operated in an embodiment at a pressure of about sixty 60 pounds per square inch psi to receive gas from intermediate chamber . The accumulated bleed gas in low pressure chamber is recycled as indicated by arrows and past a seal and gap respectfully and returned to the converging portion of the aerodynamic duct . Higher pressure gas from intermediate chamber may be returned via duct and through boundary layer injection ports and into converging portion of aerodynamic duct as indicated by arrows . In this way boundary layer mass and energy losses may be eliminated or minimized respectively.

In the supersonic nozzle choke components are provided as described elsewhere herein but an alternate embodiment showing use of a can type combustor is illustrated rather than the in line trapped vortex combustor arrangement set forth elsewhere herein.

In the gas turbine engine designs disclosed herein engine shaft efficiencies can reach 40 45 for example in applications such as an Industrial Marine Class Engine scale. Further in an embodiment the turbine specific speed may be well matched to the compressor section to thus allow both compressor and turbine rotors to run at the same shaft rotational speed and in an embodiment on the same shaft thus simplifying mechanical design and reducing cost. And supersonic compression allows both the compressor and turbine components to operate at exceptionally high component efficiencies and pressure ratios. In an embodiment an impulse rotor design may be utilized for both compressor and turbine s to minimize pressure gradients across the respective rotors and minimize thrust loads.

In the foregoing description for purposes of explanation numerous details have been set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the disclosed exemplary embodiments for the design of a novel gas turbine engine utilizing a supersonic compressor system for the efficient compression of gases. However certain of the described details may not be required in order to provide useful embodiments or to practice a selected or other disclosed embodiments. Further for descriptive purposes various relative terms may be used. Terms that are relative only to a point of reference are not meant to be interpreted as absolute limitations but are instead included in the foregoing description to facilitate understanding of the various aspects of the disclosed embodiments. And various actions or activities in a method described herein may have been described as multiple discrete activities in turn in a manner that is most helpful in understanding the present invention. However the order of description should not be construed as to imply that such activities are necessarily order dependent. In particular certain operations may not necessarily need to be performed precisely in the order of presentation. And in different embodiments of the invention one or more activities may be performed simultaneously or eliminated in part or in whole while other activities may be added. Also the reader will note that the phrase in an embodiment or in one embodiment has been used repeatedly. This phrase generally does not refer to the same embodiment however it may. Finally the terms comprising having and including should be considered synonymous unless the context dictates otherwise.

From the foregoing it can be understood by persons skilled in the art that a gas turbine engine has been provided for the efficient production of shaft power which may be utilized for a variety of end uses. Although only certain specific embodiments of the present invention have been shown and described there is no intent to limit this invention by these embodiments. Rather the invention is to be defined by the appended claims and their equivalents when taken in combination with the description.

Importantly the aspects and embodiments described and claimed herein may be modified from those shown without materially departing from the novel teachings and advantages provided and may be embodied in other specific forms without departing from the spirit or essential characteristics thereof. Therefore the embodiments presented herein are to be considered in all respects as illustrative and not restrictive or limiting. As such this disclosure is intended to cover the structures described herein and not only structural equivalents thereof but also equivalent structures. Numerous modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teachings. Therefore the protection afforded to this invention should be limited only by the claims set forth herein and the legal equivalents thereof.

