---

title: System and method of use for non-parametric circular autocorrelation for signal processing
abstract: A computer-implemented method to characterize a signal structure is provided. The method may receive a first set of time-dependent data vectors; select a sample size of data vectors; determine a minimum number of lags to process to characterize the first set of data vectors; calculate a cross-product term for each data vector in the sample size for each lag, a mean value and a variance value based on the sum of the cross-product term for each lag; calculate a circular correlation function for each lag; determine an upper and a lower correlation bound for the circular correlation based on the mean value, the variance value, and a desired false alarm rate; and characterize the signal structure based on the number of calculated circular correlation functions that exceed the upper or lower correlation bounds so as to generate a signal characterization data signal.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09110862&OS=09110862&RS=09110862
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 09110862
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120730
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

The present invention generally relates to a signal processing system and more particularly but not by way of limitation to a system and method of use for non parametric circular autocorrelation for signal processing.

In signal processing studies four important functions may be used to describe or model a finite stationary signal x t t 0 whether it be periodic transient or random or based on a single source or multiple sources an ensemble of input data. These functions are the mean square value probability density function PDF autocorrelation function ACF and power spectral density PSD .

Autocorrelation is generally the cross correlation of a signal with itself. It describes the dependence of a signal s value at one point with the value of the same signal at another time. The measure is designed to detect repeating patterns or trends in noise corrupted nonlinear time series distributions e.g. periodic quasi periodic parabolic etc. and identify frequencies. The ACF is one measure to determine whether the time waveform is random noise. The ACF is a basic building block of time series analysis. It has applications to diverse fields including signal processing oceanography astrophysics finance economics quality control physiology epidemiology demography statistics and other applied areas of science and engineering.

Various modifications are made to this formula depending upon the measurements discrete or continuous and other assumptions relating to stationarity ergodicity etc. For instance in naval sonar signal processing with positive time t the definition of the ACF used for analysis of stationary random signals x t t 0 takes the time average limiting form 

The autocorrelation function discrete or continuous time models has certain basic properties. The autocorrelation function is a symmetric around 0 or an even function for continuous case R R . The autocorrelation function will have its largest value at the origin when time lag 0 R 0 R . The autocorrelation of a periodic function will also be periodic with the same frequency. Other properties well known to those skilled in the art also exist. In addition specific types of noise such as white and colored noise and functional forms have documented characteristics.

With respect to circular correlation the normalized circular autocorrelation function for a discrete time process can be described as arising from the classical Pearson linear correlation function for a data set consisting of n bivariate pairs xy xy . . . xy. The linear correlation r for samples of size n can be expressed as a definition 

The circular normalized 1 correlation coefficient is derived from index rby a structured process that systematically recycles the input observations xy xy . . . xyin circular fashion of varying lag length h. That is each vector of lagged data contains the same measurements structured in a circular pattern. For the first lag set

Wald A. and J. Wolfowitz Annals of Mathematical Statistics Vol. 14 No. 4 pages 378 388 1943 hereinafter Wald and Wolfowitz provides a non parametric permutations method such that if n is sufficiently large the 1 lag correlation of formula 4 above can be tested to determine if the distribution is random based on the statistic 

In a similar fashion to obtain the autocorrelation for an arbitrary lag of length h the circular index can be calculated by the derived formula 

In some aspects the same identical n data points are used in a wrap around circular fashion for any lag in the computation of the ACF. The standard discrete non circular correlation index removes one observation with each lag calculation a serious drawback for small samples a condition for which the present disclosure models accurately and efficiently.

Wald and Wolfowitz generally describe the properties of Rin the context of non parametric or distribution free methods. To summarize the large sample non parametric approach of Wald and Wolfowitz at page 378 provide 

This method has been adapted for application in signal processing studies of random signals to determine if the distribution is random and to document other properties of the signal structure such as periodicities or other trends. The underlying distribution function may be continuous or discrete.

Further a number of prior art references address various aspects of signal processing methodologies techniques. For example U.S. Pat. No. 7 369 961 to Castelli et al. relates to clustering structures of time sequences. Generally the Castelli et al. patent discloses a system and method to discover potential periodicities of time series by examining power spectral density PSD and circular autocorrelation functions ACFs . Their ACF formula is designed to estimate dominant periods of a time series. Col. 4 lines 55 56 . The present disclosure however uses an entirely different circular autocorrelation function and addresses a different purpose.

Other prior art references include for example U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 966 414 and 6 597 634 to O Brien et al. of the present disclosure . These patents generally relate to methods for distinguishing signal from noise in time series data. However these patents do not teach or suggest the present disclosure. For example these patents can be distinguished in the dimensionality analyzed the ensemble of statistical and probability methods for data analysis. Neither patent uses a circular autocorrelation method for signal noise determination.

In view of the above there is a need for an improved system on non parametric circular autocorrelation for signal processing and method of use such as is described in the present disclosure.

Accordingly it is an object of the present invention to provide an improved computer aided means to detect a random process and characterize signal structure in a two dimensional time series or other in situ distributions. The present disclosure in some aspects comprises an improved system and method to compute the one dimensional normalized circular autocorrelation function in the analysis of synthetic or real signals when the distribution is unknown Gaussian or non Gaussian . The present disclosure presents a logical alternative to commonly available autocorrelation procedures such as provided by MATLAB and other data processing software systems including R S SAS SPSS Scilab and the like. One characteristic of the present disclosure is the capability to provide the described functionality while handling moderately small data sets.

The operation of the present disclosure may be structured to be as flexible as possible with multiple uses in mind according to the philosophy that in a black box real time operating system of inputs it is judicious to examine the entire autocorrelation function for indications of randomness or trends linear nonlinear and periodic . Analysis of a single lag can at most be a test of randomness in a time series however a single lag cannot detect periodic or quasi periodic structure embedded in noise for a time limited or varying waveform. Thus the inventive method herein disclosed is as general as possible allowing the user wide discretion and flexibility as to the uses to which the invention can be of service in military and commercial settings.

In some aspects the present disclosure may not be designed to distinguish random noise from deterministic noise although properties of the non circular ACF have been documented in the case of strange attractors and are well known to those skilled in the art. Rather the inventive method is designed by way of example to distinguish noise corrupted signals from randomness the absence of quantifiable useful signal information regardless of the origination of the noise.

With the above and other objects in view a feature of the present disclosure is the provision of a computer implemented method to characterize a signal structure. The method may comprise receiving via a first data channel a first set of time dependent data vectors. Each of the data vectors may have an associated amplitude. The method may further comprise activating a signal characterization module that executes instructions. When executed the instructions may cause the signal characterization module to select a sample size of data vectors from the first set of data vectors determine a minimum number of lags to process to characterize the first set of data vectors based on the sample size from the first set calculate a cross product term for each data vector in the sample size for each lag a mean value based on the sum of the cross product term for each lag and a variance value based on the sum of the cross product term for each lag calculate a circular correlation function for each lag determine an upper and a lower correlation bound for the circular correlation based on the mean value the variance value and a desired false alarm rate and characterize the signal structure based on the number of calculated circular correlation functions that exceed the upper or lower correlation bounds so as to generate a signal characterization data signal. Lastly the method may further comprise providing the signal characterization data signal on a second data channel.

In accordance with a further feature of the present disclosure there is provided a signal structure characterization system. The system may comprise a first data channel configured to receive a first set of time dependent data vectors each data vector having an associated amplitude. The system may further comprise a processing system configured to read the first set of time dependent data vectors and store the first set in a memory. The processing system may further comprise a signal characterization module configured to execute instructions that when executed causes the processing system to select a sample size of data vectors from the first set of data vectors determine a minimum number of lags to process to characterize the first set of data vectors based on the sample size from the first set calculate a cross product term for each data vector in the sample size for each lag a mean value based on the sum of the cross product term for each lag and a variance value based on the sum of the cross product term for each lag calculate a circular correlation function for each lag determine an upper and a lower correlation bound for the circular correlation based on the mean value the variance value and a desired false alarm rate and characterize the signal structure based on the number of calculated circular correlation functions that exceed the upper or lower correlation bounds so as to generate a signal characterization data signal. The system may even further comprise a second data channel configured to output the signal characterization data signal.

In accordance with a still further feature of the present disclosure there is provided a computer implemented method to characterize a first set of time dependent data vectors to identify one or more of a signal component or a noise component. The method may comprise receiving via a first data channel a first set of time dependent data vectors each data vector having an associated amplitude. The method may comprise selecting a sample size of data vectors from the first set of data vectors. The method may comprise determining a minimum number of lags to process to characterize the first set of data vectors based on the sample size from the first set. The method may further comprises calculating a cross product term for each data vector in the sample size for each lag a mean value based on the sum of the cross product term for each lag and a variance value based on the sum of the cross product term for each lag. The method comprises calculating a circular correlation function for each of the determined minimum number of lags and determining an upper and a lower correlation bound for the circular correlation. The method may further comprise characterizing the signal structure based on the number of calculated circular correlation functions that exceed the upper or lower correlation bounds so as to generate a signal characterization data signal. Lastly the method may even further comprise providing via a second data channel the signal characterization data signal.

Other objects features and advantages of the present invention will be apparent to those having ordinary skill in the art reading the instant specification drawings and appended claims.

Before explaining the presently disclosed and claimed inventive concepts in detail by way of exemplary embodiments drawings and appended claims it is to be understood that the present disclosure is not limited in its application to the details of construction and the arrangement of the components set forth in the following description or illustrated in the drawings. The present disclosure is capable of other embodiments or of being practiced or carried out in various ways. As such the language used herein is intended to be given the broadest possible scope and meaning and the embodiments are meant to be exemplary not exhaustive. It is to be understood that the phraseology and terminology employed herein is for the purpose of description and should not be regarded as limiting. Unless otherwise required by context singular terms may include pluralities and plural terms may include the singular.

To provide exemplary illustrations of certain aspects of the present disclosure assume a data set containing measurements of a finite number of independent data points or vectors x x . . . xof a time series. The non parametric circular serial correlation or autocorrelation derived by Wald and Wolfowitz is an exact test of serial randomness in a sample in the time domain. The distributional structure of the data or underlying population from which the sample is drawn is assumed unknown. The statistic for a lag of length h 

A test against Rfor randomness usually R is equivalent to a test that the correlation R usually R is random Wald and Wolfowitz p. 380 as well as a test that the distribution is random without further testing being required. In certain aspects the equivalency between the two measures may be a primary theoretical basis of the present inventive method designed for non large samples.

In accordance with certain aspects inventive formulations are derived and documented in the present disclosure wherein said formulations may be adapted for implementation via a computer implemented processing system. For example the computing correlation index of equation 5 above may be derived from the definition given by Wald and Wolfowitz p. 378 . Moreover the present disclosure demonstrates that the discrete circular autocorrelation is symmetric with respect to the median value of the maximum lag of a discrete series on time t 0. This is different from the non circular case in which a defining property of the ACF is symmetry about 0 on time t 

For non limiting illustration purposes the present disclosure provides an example of the circular correlation function circular ACF for a quite small data set of 15 discrete observations of random data mimicking a discrete time random process. Although this data set is less than the minimum of n 25 it is used for illustrative purposes only. We will use this data set to provide a demonstration of certain aspects of the inventive method and its application to two dimensional time series typically encountered in signal processing and various other fields of engineering or science. It is to be understood that the present disclosure is not limited in its application to the data set discussed herein.

Referring now to the drawings and more particularly to shown therein is a table including a random data set used to illustrate certain aspects of the present disclosure. Generally the table shown in illustrates a small random data set n 15 taken from Hoel P. J. et al. Introduction to Statistical Theory Houghton Mifflin Boston 1971 chap. 6 Hereinafter Hoel et al. page 180. Equations 5 through 9 generally comprise the classical approach for assessing a noise hypothesis based on 1 lag of data commonly taught in statistical texts provided the sample size is large enough e.g. Hoel et al. p. 178. This example demonstrates that the method detects randomness for n of 15. For this procedure the simple binary hypothesis set is 0 noise 0 signal noise 

Wald and Wolfowitz pages 381 383 provides that the product measure R of col. 3 has the theoretical properties 

Ris judged random by this test. The conclusion is drawn that the first lag correlation and hence the data set is suggestive of noise at the 0.05 false alarm rate level since p where the probability p is obtained from the continuous standard Gaussian normal distribution 

The p value is the probability of detecting noise. Another interpretation is that p represents the belief of the operator that the null hypothesis of random noise is true. Small values of p lead to rejection of the null hypothesis of noise only. For example in the case of pure noise 0 and p 1. In the case of pure signal and p 0. The calculation of p well known to those skilled in the art is performed in a standard finite series expansion.

The same mean E R and variance var R are constant terms used across all lags since they are defined for the entire sample by considering all possible permutations of the sample. The sample size n for lag h is always the same value unlike the standard non circular correlation index which drops one observation per lag. shows a table illustrating a complete analysis of these data for the maximum number of lags permissible h n 1 i.e. a complete analysis for 14 lags n 15 for the random data set of Hoel et al. shown in Table of . Table shows that all correlations indicate noise p 0.05 at the 5 false alarm level. The occurrence of identical results between the lower lags and upper lags will be explained below.

As noted provided the sample size is large enough equations 5 through 10 comprise the standard procedure for assessing a distributional noise hypothesis commonly taught in statistical texts. Interestingly a sample as small as 15 observations known a priori to be random was detected to be a random series for the n asymptotic method of Wald and Wolfowitz. It is doubtful however that engineers would accept as valid a 1 lag test for such a small sample. More lags are needed to be certain the data does not possess hidden signal structures. In accordance with certain aspects the presently disclosed inventive methods and system addresses this need. The inventive aspects of the present disclosure has been verified by empirical investigation based on a number of computer runs using the currently disclosed algorithm and method steps on for example programs that run in the MATLAB environment.

Researchers who have used this large sample one lag randomness method for analysis include Giles who applied Wald and Wolfowitz s method for the removal of high frequency random noise for serial electromagnetic pulse data and Kay et al. who investigated the complex circular correlation detector for the case of a complex sinusoidal in complex white Gaussian noise. Some refer to the statistic Ras the correlation but this terminology introduces confusion.

Turning now to certain inventive aspects of the present disclosure a new method and system based on the correlations R to assess an entire ACF for a predetermined number of lags of circular data in the time domain is described. Research has shown that the methods and systems implementing the current disclosure are useful for sample sizes smaller than recommended for asymptotic theory to work. As noted in computing the circular serial correlation for any lag h by equation 5 only the cross product term Rchanges a computing formula for which can be expressed in summation notation as 

Or more particularly and referring now to shown therein is the circular structure discussed above in tabular format wherein the circular structure is more particularly identified by the corresponding cross hatchings. The circular pattern of last values for a lag h corresponding to the second summation term of equation 11 . Note that the h lag of the last column shown in shows the pattern for an arbitrary lag or a max lag.

In accordance with certain aspects to test an overall hypothesis of noise for all h lags in small samples the present disclosure determines the critical values for R Rat the 5 false alarm rate level. Set the critical detection statistic to

Once Rand Rare determined use them to find the lower upper critical bounds on the circular correlation Rand R. The critical lower bound on the circular serial correlation R will be by equation 5 

The lower and upper bounds on the correlations can be plotted on a correlogram to show the results. For example and referring now to shown therein is a correlogram illustrating the ACF for the Hoel et al. data set of computed for all lags. The noise bounds of 0.56 0.42 are indicated by the lines and respectively. As seen every correlation value is contained within the critical boundary indicating a noise distribution. Note the W shaped symmetric structure for lags 1 to 14 of the correlogram indicates that the correlation of the first and last lags are identical the second is identical to the next to last etc. The reason for this is seen by the symmetry of the matrix of Rproduct values for corresponding lags created by the recycling process of the method for discrete time lags unique to the Wald Wolfowitz circular correlation continuous time measurements would not show the symmetry for the first quadrant of ACFs p. 380 Wald and Wolfowitz i.e. lag k lag n k k 1 2 . . . h 2 which means in general for even or odd sample size n 

In accordance with certain aspects of the present disclosure the fundamental theoretical and programming implication of the foregoing is that only 1 2 the correlations are needed to completely characterize the ACF for n 15. Such an implication applies to studies with larger sample sizes. is a table that shows exemplary minimum number of lags for varying sample sizes. As shown in table for small samples n 39 fewer computations are needed and the same amount of information is extracted compared to the default MATLAB criterion max using the function autocorr Series nLags M nSTDs . These sample sizes coincide with typical naval signal processing algorithms that process Filtered Integrated Data Units FIDUs in batch mode.

Note the choice of min as opposed to max in deciding how many lags to process is practical for non large samples. It is impractical to plot ACF values for n 1000 however a large data set can be randomly sampled once or resampled multiple times to obtain an estimate of the exact ACF of the entire sample by use of the mincriterion of the presently disclosed inventive method.

In accordance with certain aspects of the present disclosure the complete ACF for noise signal at the 5 level may be assessed by counting the integer number of times c the correlation values exceed the noise bounds for h 1. Then 

In the alternative a user may assess the hypothesis by equation 20 based only on the number of non redundant lower or upper lags of the ACF in the case of n 15 the lags of equation 20 would be 7 in which case since c was observed to be 0 the null hypothesis of noise only would be accepted. Note to assess the complete ACF for noise signal at the 1 level the criterion for h 1 is 

Now we compare the data analysis results of the exact circular correlation procedure for the 15 sample data set shown in table of with the standard normalized non circular autocorrelation function. Autocorrelations were computed for the maximum number of lags. The 5 WGN error band is constant for all lags at

The most significant difference is the lack of symmetry of the correlation values. By comparison the circular ACF of requires only 7 values to render the decision noise because of the median symmetry property. It can also be reiterated that the drawback of losing one observation per lag with the non circular autocorrelation method.

The process and computer implemented method steps described herein comprise the essential steps needed to arrive at a decision of signal noise for the entire discrete ACF in accordance with the present disclosure. Exemplary and or alternative measures are generally a the Rof equation 11 b the and the rejection criterion of equation 13 and c probability p equation 10 . These statistics provide alternative means or variations alone or in combination to practice certain aspects of the present disclosure. For example the 1 lag test of randomness requires a b and c to evaluate the hypothesis of noise only with the non parametric circular correlation index provided n is sufficiently large. As a second example users who desire to use the noncircular form of the non parametric test procedure of Wald and Wolfowitz for randomness assessment with lag 1 need to adjust the statistic Rby omitting the second term of equation 11 

As another alternative or variation the present inventive method can be used to assist in randomness determination in patents to F. J. O Brien Jr. which are designed for two dimensional Cartesian space. These patents include U.S. Pat. No. 6 983 222 U.S. Pat. No. 6 397 234 and U.S. Pat. No. 5 966 414 the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

As a final alternative or variation users may wish to run additional tests of randomness as confirmatory evidence of randomness in the case of fairly small samples n

From the above it is clear that the herein described inventive concepts provide an improved system on non parametric circular autocorrelation for signal processing and method of use. As discussed above prior methods utilizing the Wald Wolfowitz one lag ACF test in certain instances fail to make the correct signal noise determination. A clear discussion of this as well as the application of the present disclosure to overcome said failings is discussed below with respect to .

In the illustration shown in a 160 noise signal was added to a sinusoidal signal resulting in a signal to noise that averaged nearly 12.6 dB over four simulation runs. It will be noticed that the early 3 lags are noise . This means that the standard circular non parametric Wald Wolfowitz ACF procedure discussed above evaluates this distribution as noise based on lag 1. But in fact it is a signal distribution in accordance with the currently described inventive method based on standard false alarm rate analysis. is but one example demonstrating the inadequacy of a one lag only Wald Wolfowitz signal test method in signal processing. In summary the presently disclosed inventive methods illustrate that the Wald Wolfowitz ACF test tends to fail to detect signal structure as the noise level increases for a fixed sample size and false alarm rate.

Therefore it is believed that engineers use the valuable Wald Wolfowitz circular ACF test incorrectly when they analyze only the first lag the standard approach as recommended in the original article by Wald and Wolfowitz in order to determine whether the time series data is a signal or noise. Analyzing the first lag can provide very misleading diagnostics. The commonly used procedure is not always correct in trapping a signal. The real signal in the time domain can go undetected when operating in a noisy signal processing environment. This is considered to be a serious error.

These and other function and implementation details regarding the systems and methods of the presently described and claimed inventive concepts will be described in greater detail below with reference to the .

It is to be understood that the presently disclosed inventive steps may be implemented using a wide variety of computerized devices s processing system s software application modules and the like. Such systems may include hardware software or combinations thereof that when executed are configured to perform the herein disclosed inventive steps and methods.

Referring now to shown therein is an exemplary architecture of a system which may be adapted to practice aspects of the present disclosure. That is the exemplary architecture illustrated in includes hardware software and or combinations thereof adapted to implement certain aspects of the presently disclosed and claimed inventive concept s . The exemplary architecture is provided by way of example only and is not intended to be limiting. Changes and variations to the exemplary architecture illustrated in are considered within the scope of the present disclosure.

A module or application as referenced in the present invention should be generally understood as a collection of routines that perform various system level functions and may be dynamically loaded and unloaded by hardware and device drivers as required. The modular software components described herein may also be incorporated as part of a larger software platform or integrated as part of an application specific component. Changes and variations to the exemplary architecture illustrated in are considered within the scope of the present disclosure.

The system may include one or more processors and memory . The memory may store in part instructions and data for execution by the processor . The memory may store executable code when in operation. The memory may include a data processing module for processing data. The system may further include a storage system communication network interface input and output I O interface s and display interface . Data vectors can be received from sensors at communication network interface . Signal characterization data can be provided as output through at least one of communication network interface I O interface and display interface . The components shown in are depicted as being communicatively coupled via a bus . The components may be communicatively coupled via one or more data transport means. The processor and memory may be communicatively coupled via a local microprocessor bus and the storage system and display interface may be communicatively coupled via one or more input output I O buses. The communications network interface may communicate with other digital devices not shown via a communications medium.

The storage system may include a mass storage device and portable storage medium drive s . The mass storage device may be implemented with a magnetic disk drive or an optical disk drive which may be a non volatile storage device for storing data and instructions for use by the processor . The mass storage device can store system software for implementing embodiments according to the present technology for purposes of loading that software into the memory . Some examples of the memory may include RAM and ROM. A portable storage device as part of the storage system may operate in conjunction with a portable non volatile storage medium such as a floppy disk compact disk or digital video disc DVD to input and output data and code to and from the system of . System software for implementing various embodiments may be stored on such a portable medium and input to the system via the portable storage device. The memory and storage system of the system may include a non transitory computer readable storage medium having stored thereon instructions executable by a processor to perform at least partially a computer implemented method for to characterize a signal structure in accordance with the present disclosure. The instructions may include software used to implement modules discussed herein and other modules.

I O interfaces may provide a portion of a user interface receive audio input and provide audio output. The I O interface may include component s logic instructions and or combinations thereof adapted to permit the user to interface with the system . The I O interfaces may include an alpha numeric keypad such as a keyboard for inputting alpha numeric and other information or a pointing device such as a mouse trackball stylus or cursor direction keys. The display interface may include a liquid crystal display LCD or other suitable display device. The display interface may receive textual and graphical information and process the information for output to the display interface .

The system may include any computerized system that can implement a web browser application or other suitable applications adapted to request and provide information to and from the system via a network. Exemplary systems adapted to implement the system include but are not limited to a general purpose computing system a personal computer a laptop computer a netbook a personal digital assistant PDA a smart phone an e reader and or equivalents thereof. Exemplary software applications included on the system include a web browser application a word processor application a time keeping tracking application a communication application as well as a wide variety of applications understood by one having ordinary skill in the art.

Broadly the network discussed above may be adapted to provide a communications medium to permit one or more systems to communicate with other systems or a remote processing system not shown and vice versa. The network can be implemented via the World Wide Web WWW a wide area network WAN a local area network LAN the Internet an intranet a wireless network a cellular telephone network and or equivalents or combinations thereof.

The system may include component s logic instructions and or combinations thereof adapted to implement at least a portion of the currently described and claimed inventive concept s . The system may include instructions stored on non transitory computer readable medium that when executed causes the processing system to implement the present technology.

The system may further include an applications module which may include one or more of programs applications logic instructions and computer executable code adapted to operate the system as well as to carry out at least a portion of the currently described and claimed inventive concept s .

It is to be understood that the description provided above regarding the particularities of the exemplary architecture implementing the system is provided by way of example and is not to be considered limiting. The system may be implemented as described above or with a variety of modifications and or changes to the architecture without departing from the particular functions described herein. For example the system may be implemented as a stand alone server as a web server as a distributed server system as an application server in combination with a database server etc. When the system is implemented as a webserver the system may communicate with other systems via the network through a series of web pages. The system may be implemented as a single web server or as a distributed processing system including a plurality of server s coupled to one or more databases either locally or remotely.

Turning now to shown therein is a flowchart of an exemplary method to characterize a signal structure in accordance with the present disclosure. The method may be computer implemented using for example the system combinations or equivalents thereof. The method may include a step of receiving a first set of time dependent data vectors. The data vectors may be received via a first data channel. The first data channel may be a wired or a wireless channel an optical channel a radio frequency channel and the like e.g. the bus communications network interface . Generally the input data vectors or time dependent data vectors t x where t is clock time t0 and x t is the amplitude measure in the time domain i.e. each of the data vectors may have an associated amplitude. The step may further include performing preprocessing conditioning filtering formatting etc. as necessary. The method may also include a step of selecting a discrete sample size n. That is the step may include selecting a sample size of the input data vectors n from the first set of data vectors. The step may be performed via a signal characterization module that executes instructions that when executed cause the signal characterization module to carry out at least a portion of the herein described steps. The signal characterization module may be implemented via for example the system and or the one or more application modules thereon. If required the step may further include time domain sampling such as described herein. The inventive concepts recited in the present disclosure can easily handle sample sizes which coincide with typical naval signal processing algorithms that process Filtered Integrated Data Units FIDUs in batch mode. A large data set can be randomly sampled to obtain an estimate of the ACF of the entire sample by use of the mincriterion of the inventive method. Small sample sizes of about 100 or less may not need to be sampled in order to analyze the entire ACF.

Once any required sampling is accomplished the method may further include a step of determining a minimum number of lags to process to characterize the first set of data vectors. The minimum number of lags to process may be based on the sample size n from the first set of data vectors. The minimum number of lags to process may be determined with the criterion

The method may further include a step of calculating a cross product term for each data vector in the sample size for each lag a mean value based on the sum of the cross product term for each lag and a variance value. The cross product term may be calculated using equation 11 above. The mean value may be calculated using equation 7 above. The variance value may be calculated using equation 8 above. The method may further include a step of calculating a circular correlation function for each lag. The cross correlation function may be calculated using equation 5 above. The values Rmay optionally be plotted on a correlogram.

The method may further include a step of determining an upper and a lower correlation bound for the circular correlation. The upper and lower correlation bounds may be based on the mean value the variance value and a desired false alarm rate. Generally critical upper and lower noise bounds on the correlations R R are calculated first using equation 13 discussed above wherein the constant 1.96 represents a desired false alarm rate of five percent 5 i.e. using the equations

The method may further include a step of characterizing the signal structure based on the number of calculated circular correlation functions that exceed the upper or lower correlation bounds. In certain aspects a parameter c may be counted to ascertain the number of computed autocorrelation values which exceed the noise bounds. Fractional values of c may be rounded up to the next higher integer. The decision module e.g. the signal characterization module determines whether the ACF is signal or noise. Eq. 20 makes this determination at the 5 false alarm level and Eq. 21 at the 1 false alarm level. Other conclusions and decisions about the vector data set may be made about the structure of the time waveform such as periodicity or other trends to inform further analysis of the data set. A signal characterization data signal may be generated which is indicative of whether the first set of data vectors include a signal component a noise component combinations thereof and the like.

The method may further include a step of outputting the signal characterization data signal on a second data channel. The second data channel may utilize the same or similar data channel as the first data channel or may be an independent data channel. The output signal characterization data signal may be output as an electronic or hard copy computer analysis graphic or text . The output signal characterization data signal may be provided to additional processing modules for further analysis. Additional exemplary analysis may include a power spectral density PSD analysis of the ACF to further characterize the signal information of non random data or noise reduction algorithms used to remove the identified noise or Fishers classical test for periodicities among other procedures well known to those skilled in the art of this field.

From the description discussed above it is clear that the currently disclosed inventive method possesses several key advantages and new features over the standard autocorrelation method currently available to scientists and engineers for testing a signal noise binary hypothesis for example the popular MATLAB procedure with syntax autocorr Series nLags M nSTDs . An important advantage of the current disclosure is that it makes no assumptions about the underlying distribution that is it is non parametric. This means the method can be used for Gaussian or non Gaussian models and call signal or noise with high certainty. Second the method can perform a complete analysis for the maximum number of lags in one half the time the same data set is processed by the standard non circular correlation method. This is due to the symmetry of the correlations for h lags as explained herein. Third the method does not lose one observation per lag as the standard non circular parametric method does. This is especially important for small samples in which the hlag may contain only a handful of observations which results in lower confidence in the estimates.

It will be understood that many additional changes in the details materials steps and arrangement of parts which have been herein described and illustrated in order to explain the nature of the invention may be made by those skilled in the art within the principle and scope of the invention as expressed in the appended claims. The foregoing description of the preferred embodiments of the invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description only. It is not intended to be exhaustive nor to limit the invention to the precise form disclosed and obviously many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teaching. Such modifications and variations that may be apparent to a person skilled in the art are intended to be included within the scope of this invention as defined by the accompanying claims.

