---

title: Transforming data into consumable content
abstract: Concepts and technologies are described herein for transforming data into consumable content. In accordance with the concepts and technologies disclosed herein, a computing device can execute a transformation engine for transforming data into the consumable content. The computing device can be configured to analyze the data to identify relationships within data elements or other portions of the data. The computing device also can determine a visualization model to apply to the data and to choose a world based upon the determined visualization model. The computing device can obtain rules associated with the selected or chosen world, and can apply the rules to the data to generate the output. In some embodiments, the computing device can be configured to obtain and apply feedback to the output.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08990140&OS=08990140&RS=08990140
owner: Microsoft Technology Licensing, LLC
number: 08990140
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120608
---
The availability and diversity of software that can be used to create content has increased as has the number of venues available for publishing content. Similarly instant publication of information via various live messaging and or social networking sites has revolutionized data sharing by greatly accelerating the speed and frequency with which data is published by users. Because of these and other changes in the various ways data is created generated shared and or published the number and diversity of users creating sharing and or publishing content has increased along with the size of audiences of these content creators sharers and or publishers.

Because almost any technology user today creates generates shares and or publishes content some users or other entities creating generating sharing or publishing the content may not be trained in design principles. As a result some of these entities may not be capable of producing visual content in a consumable useful or visually appealing format. Thus the utility of some content created generated shared or published by these or other entities may be enhanced by applying better designs.

Some publishers may choose to compile information into a document. Other publishers may load information into a presentation video or other output. These presentations or documents may include too much or too little information to be useful or may lack a thoughtful and design based format that allows viewers or consumers to easily access important information within the document or presentation. Because visual aspects of a particular presentation or document may distract consumers from the usefulness or importance of the underlying data or facts presented within the presentation or document some content may not receive the attention deserved. Alternatively some publishers may expend resources to create or commission others to create visually consumable content.

Concepts and technologies are described herein for transforming data into consumable content. As used herein the term consumable can be used to refer to content that can be readily viewed interpreted or accessed by a user viewer or other entity. In some instances the content or portions thereof can be arranged in accordance with hierarchical or logical relationships and or in accordance with applied design rules. In accordance with the concepts and technologies disclosed herein data can be obtained by a computing device. In some instances the data can include a text file a web page a document a presentation file a spreadsheet a video a photo or other image or another type of data. The data can be obtained in various formats and can be analyzed to identify relationships between data elements and or portions of the data. The relationships can be used to identify hierarchies emphasis clusters and or to otherwise obtain an understanding of the data.

The computing device can determine how to introduce differences or variations to the data. The variations can include differences in animations effects layouts color schemes or other design variations. The computing device also can select a world for presenting the data. As used herein the term world can be used to refer to an approach model or theme for presenting data. The computing device can select a world for presentation of the data and can apply the world to the data using one or more sets of rules that define how data is translated into the world. In some embodiments the rules can be tailored for each world and can define for example how data of a particular type is to be represented in the selected or chosen world.

Through application of the variations visualization models worlds and or rules the computing device can generate output that includes the consumable content. The output can include a presentation a document a video an interactive data output or other data. In some embodiments the computing device presents the output to a user or other entity and the user or other entity expresses preferences relating to various aspects of the output. Thus for example the user can express whether a particular aspect of the output is liked or disliked and the computing device can be configured to apply the expressed likes or dislikes to the output. As such the computing device can be configured to modify the output in accordance with user preferences. The computing device also can be configured to store the preferences for future use.

According to one aspect a computing device obtains data. The data can be obtained from a local or remote storage device such as the Internet a server or the like. The computing device can be configured to execute a transformation engine for analyzing the data identifying relationships within the data determining a visualization model choosing a world applying rules such as design rules associated with the world to the data and generating the output. In some embodiments the transformation engine can include or can be substituted for by a number of modules. The modules can include a decomposition and understanding module a variation module and a world chooser module. The transformation engine also can include representations of the rules for translating the data based upon the chosen or selected world and the transformation engine can be configured to apply the rules to the data to generate output.

According to another aspect the transformation engine also can include an authoring module. The authoring module can be configured to obtain and apply user input or feedback with regard to the output. The feedback can be obtained directly from the user or other entity. The feedback can be obtained in response to one or more prompts that can be generated by the computing device. As such the computing device can be configured to generate the output and to modify the output based upon user preferences. The computing device also can be configured to store the preferences for future use and or application to other data.

It should be appreciated that the above described subject matter may be implemented as a computer controlled apparatus a computer process a computing system or as an article of manufacture such as a computer readable storage medium. These and various other features will be apparent from a reading of the following Detailed Description and a review of the associated drawings.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended that this Summary be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter. Furthermore the claimed subject matter is not limited to implementations that solve any or all disadvantages noted in any part of this disclosure.

The following detailed description is directed to concepts and technologies for transforming data into consumable content. According to the concepts and technologies described herein a computing device can execute a transformation engine for transforming data into the consumable content. In some embodiments the computing device obtains data from a local or remote storage device such as a memory or server the Internet or the like. In some other embodiments the data is generated at the computing device using an application program executing at the computing device. The computing device can be configured to execute the transformation engine to analyze the data. Via analysis of the data the computing device can identify relationships within data elements or other portions of the data. The computing device also can execute the transformation engine to determine variations to apply to the data and to select a visualization model and or world to apply to the data. The computing device also can execute the transformation engine to obtain rules associated with the selected or chosen world and to apply the rules to the data to generate output.

The computing device also can be configured to obtain and apply input or feedback from a user or other entity. The feedback can be interpreted by the computing device to understand preferences of the user or other entity with regard to the output. The input or feedback can be obtained directly from the user or other entity and or can be obtained in response to one or more prompts that can be generated by the computing device. Based upon the input or feedback the computing device can be configured to modify the output or to determine that the output is not to be modified. The computing device also can be configured to store the preferences for future use and or for application to other data. The preferences stored by the computing device can include preferences not only for a particular user but additionally or alternatively for multiple or all users. Additionally or alternatively the preferences can relate to the specific content or output as well as the user or users. Thus the preferences also can indicate for example that a particular data element cluster of data elements presentation aspect presentation or design scheme rule or the like is more or less important than other data elements clusters of data elements presentation aspects presentation or design schemes rules or the like.

While the subject matter described herein is presented in the general context of program modules that execute in conjunction with the execution of an operating system and application programs on a computer system those skilled in the art will recognize that other implementations may be performed in combination with other types of program modules. Generally program modules include routines programs components data structures and other types of structures that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Moreover those skilled in the art will appreciate that the subject matter described herein may be practiced with other computer system configurations including hand held devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics minicomputers mainframe computers and the like.

In the following detailed description references are made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof and in which are shown by way of illustration specific embodiments or examples. Referring now to the drawings in which like numerals represent like elements throughout the several figures aspects of a computing system computer readable storage medium and computer implemented methodology for transforming data into consumable content will be presented.

Referring now to aspects of one operating environment for the various embodiments presented herein will be described. The operating environment shown in includes a computing device . According to various embodiments the functionality of the computing device can be provided by a personal computer PC such as a desktop tablet or laptop computer system. The functionality of the computing device also can be provided by other types of computing systems including but not limited to server computers handheld computers netbook computers embedded computer systems personal digital assistants mobile telephones smart phones or other devices or systems capable of executing the various software elements described herein in detail. For purposes of describing the concepts and technologies disclosed herein the computing device is described herein as including a PC. It should be understood that this embodiment is illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

According to some embodiments the computing device is configured to operate in communication with or as part of a communications network network . In some other embodiments the computing device does not operate in communication with the network . The computing device can be configured to execute an operating system and one or more application programs modules software elements or other computer executable or computer readable instructions such as for example a transformation engine .

The operating system is a computer program for controlling the operation of the computing device . The transformation engine can include an executable program configured to execute on top of the operating system to provide the functionality described herein for transforming information into consumable content. Although the transformation engine is illustrated as a component of the computing device it should be understood that the transformation engine may be embodied as or in a stand alone device or components thereof operating as part of or in communication with the network and or the computing device . The transformation engine also can be a virtualized service or technology layer that executes on the computing device and or on other real or virtual devices. Thus the illustrated embodiment is illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

As will be explained in more detail below particularly with reference to the transformation engine can be configured to obtain data and to transform the data into consumable content that can include or can be included within output generated by the computing device . As used herein the term consumable can be used to refer to output such as the output that can be readily or easily viewed interpreted or accessed by a user or viewer. More particularly as explained in more detail below the output can include various data elements or portions of the data that are arranged by the transformation engine in accordance with the various concepts and technologies disclosed herein. As such it can be appreciated that the data can include a number of data elements or other portions of data.

In some embodiments the transformation engine is configured to translate or arrange the data into a relationship based design. This relationship based design can be but is not necessarily arranged in a logical and or hierarchical fashion and or can be arranged in accordance with various designer based presentation rules for arranging and or laying out data. Thus the phrase consumable content can but does not necessarily refer to visually appealing and or logically arranged data. It should be understood however that the output as described herein need not be visually appealing and or that visual appeal can be subjective. As such the output can include various data elements or other portions of the data translated into the output as described herein.

According to various embodiments the computing device is configured to receive or store the data . For example the data can be stored at the computing device in a memory disk drive or other data storage elements. In some other embodiments such as the embodiment illustrated in the data can be obtained from a data source that can be configured to operate as part of or in communication with the network . The functionality of the data source can be provided by a network drive a server computer operating on or in communication with the network a database or another real or virtual data storage element and or other data storage devices. It should be understood that these embodiments are illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

According to various aspects of the concepts and technologies disclosed herein the transformation engine can include one or more applications programs software computer executable instructions and or other data. Some examples of data that can be included as part of the transformation engine are illustrated and described in more detail below with reference to . Briefly the computer executable instructions can include instructions for decomposing and understanding content included with the data instructions for generating and or suggesting variations to be employed when presenting the data as part of the output instructions for choosing a theme mood color scheme animations layout and or other aspects world to be employed in generating the output rules for tailoring a selected or chosen world and or instructions for modifying output based upon input from users or other entities.

These and other aspects of the transformation engine can be provided by a single or multiple applications or modules. Thus the computing device can by execution of the transformation engine receive the data determine how the data is to be presented generate the output for presenting the data in the determined formats schemes themes or the like and present the output . Before during or after presentation of the output the computing device also can be configured to obtain input or feedback feedback regarding the output from users or other entities. In some embodiments the computing device can be configured to prompt users for the feedback. In some other embodiments the computing device can be configured to receive the feedback from various users or other entities without prompting for the feedback.

Based upon the feedback received by the computing device the output associated with the computing device can be tailored to reflect preferences likes dislikes or the like associated with the user or other entity. As such the computing device can be configured not only to present the data in a format that is determined by the computing device but furthermore in a format that is tailored by and or modified by the user or other entity via providing feedback. It should be understood that this embodiment is illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

In some embodiments the computing device retrieves receives or otherwise obtains the data . The data can be obtained from a local data storage device or from a remote data storage device or entity such as the data source . The data can include almost any type of information including but not limited to documents text images presentations spreadsheets web pages video media or other information. Because the data can include other types of information or content it should be understood that these embodiments are illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

The computing device can be configured to analyze the data to identify a hierarchy and or relationships within the data . In particular the computing device can be configured to identify relationships between one or more data elements or portions of data that are included within the data . For example if the data includes a presentation document the data elements can include slides of the presentation objects within slides of the presentation and or other portions of data included in the presentation such as individual text characters images sentences words bullet lists numbered lists text blocks backgrounds title blocks media objects or the like. The computing device can be configured to analyze the various elements or portions data elements of the data to identify relationships between the various data elements and or to identify a hierarchy within the data . Similarly the computing device can be configured to recognize relationships between one or more instances of data . For example images from a FLICKR or other photo album software can be associated with status updates or messages such as FACEBOOK or TWITTER updates and or timestamp information to identify relationships between the images. Because other types of data and or data sources can be used to identify relationships between elements of the data these examples should be understood as being illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

The computing device also can be configured to determine a visualization model to be used for generating the output . In particular the computing device can determine variations that can be included when generating the output to provide differentiated output as the output . For example the computing device can apply variations in animations image sizes text effects layouts color schemes themes or other visualizations to the data included as the output to provide highly differentiated output. Thus a user of the computing device can generate a unique product using the computing device even if other users provide substantially similar or even identical input.

The computing device also can be configured to choose a world that is to be used for generating the output . The term world as used herein can be used to refer to a type or category of visualizations and or themes that can be applied to the data and used to generate the output . The worlds can include instructions for visualizing the data in two dimensional D or three dimensional 3D visualizations specifying fonts and font formats images and image formats animations backgrounds text block sizes and layouts document layouts or other aspects of the output . It should be understood however that the worlds are not necessarily limited to templates. Rather in the embodiments described herein the worlds are not templates and instead define facets or aspects of visualizations that can be applied to the data to obtain the output as described herein. For example in some embodiments a world includes a conglomeration of visualizations styles and tuned rules that guide how the data is to be handled and displayed. Additional aspects of the worlds disclosed herein are described in additional detail below with reference to .

Some or all of the worlds also can be associated with a set of rules. Additional aspects of the rules are described in detail below with reference to . Briefly the rules can define how the various aspects of the worlds are to be applied to data such as the data . Some additional aspects of the rules and some examples of how the rules can be used are set forth below in more detail with reference to . The computing device can be configured to obtain rules associated with a chosen world if available and to apply those rules to the data to obtain the output . The computing device can thus generate the output and present the output to a user or other entity. The output also can be saved to data storage device if desired.

According to some embodiments of the concepts and technologies disclosed herein the computing device also is configured to obtain and apply user feedback to the output . In some embodiments the user feedback includes user responses to various prompts or questions. For example the computing device can present questions to a user or other entity for evaluating various aspects of the output . In some embodiments the computing device asks or prompts a user or other entity for feedback regarding colors color schemes fonts layouts element locations image sizes importance emphasis arrangement of data or other aspects of the output by expressing whether that particular aspect is liked or disliked.

The computing device also can be configured to generate questions for the user about the various aspects of the output in addition to or instead to prompting for feedback. For example the computing device can ask if a particular aspect is liked or disliked is good or bad or the like. It should be understood that the feedback questions prompts or the like can be formatted as questions with binary yes no like dislike or true false answers. The questions or prompts also can request rankings over various ranges such as for example scales of numbers such as one to ten letter grades such as A through F numbers of stars or the like. The user can provide this and or other types of feedback with respect to the entirety of the output and or the computing device can be configured to ask the user to express this feedback regarding individual parts or components of the output . For example the computing device can be configured to ask if the output is liked or disliked or to ask if a particular font color scheme and or other aspect or component of the output is liked or disliked. It should be understood that these embodiments are illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

The computing device can be configured to evaluate the feedback from the user and to determine if the output is to be modified based upon the feedback. For example if feedback received from the user or another entity indicates that a color scheme is disliked the computing device can change the color scheme. Similarly likes can be used to modify the output so aspects of the output that are liked by the user or other entity can be repeated in the output and or can be used for generating other output in the future. As such it can be appreciated that various aspects of the output can be modified based upon the feedback. It should be understood that these embodiments are illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

Turning now to additional aspects of the transformation engine will be described in detail according to an illustrative embodiment. As explained above with reference to the transformation engine can be configured to transform the data into the output . In some embodiments such as the embodiment illustrated in the transformation engine includes a number of modules applications programs software or other computer executable instructions for providing the functionality described herein with respect to the transformation engine and or the computing device . Additionally or alternatively the transformation engine also can include other data as will be described herein in more detail.

In the illustrated embodiment the transformation engine includes a decomposition and understanding module a variation module a world chooser module rules an authoring module worlds and other data or instructions not shown . Although not shown in the transformation engine also can include a design rules module for authoring creating and or saving the rules . As such the transformation engine can be configured to transform the data into the output via execution of one or more portions of computer executable code or instructions. It should be understood that the various functionality described herein with respect to the various modules and other data shown in can be provided by a single application module program or other software or data and that as such the illustrated embodiment is illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

The decomposition and understanding module can be configured to analyze the data . As explained above the analysis of the data can be completed to understand relationships between the various data elements or other portions of the data . More particularly in some embodiments the data is arranged in a flow based format and or is not arranged in any particular format. The decomposition and understanding module can apply various rules for interpreting the data to identify relationships between the various data. For example if multiple pages of a presentation or other document include a similar or identical title the decomposition and understanding module can be configured to determine that the multiple pages are related to one another. Similarly if a title on one page is similar to a title on the second page but also includes the word continued or an abbreviation such as cont d the decomposition and understanding module can determine that these pages are related. It should be understood that these embodiments are illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

In some embodiments the decomposition and understanding module can be configured to determine that elements in bullet lists or numbered lists are related to one another and or to a heading of the lists. In some other embodiments the decomposition and understanding module can be configured to determine that text surrounding the same or similar images is related that text with similar or identical references or footnotes are related and or that other elements or portions of the data are related to one another. In some other embodiments decomposition and understanding can include image analysis. For example images can be analyzed to detect faces salient regions invariant regions over which text can be placed compositional analysis or other aspects of the image. Various rules for interpreting the data can be applied by the decomposition and understanding module . Because other processes or rules for identifying relationships are contemplated it should be understood that these embodiments are illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

The variation module can be configured to generate differentiated output for the user or other entity. In particular the variation module can apply variations in animations visual effects designs themes or other variations. The variations can be applied to the data to create differentiations that can be used to make each output of the computing device seem unique. These variations can be applied to the data as described in more detail below with reference to .

The world chooser module can be configured to evaluate and choose a world to apply to the data . As explained above a world can include a theme model scheme or other approach for presenting data that can be stored selected and or applied to data to obtain output . In some embodiments the worlds are extensible. In particular a third party or other entity can create new or additional worlds and can define how the data can be applied to the world . The world chooser module can be configured to consider various aspects of the data and to determine what visualization models and or differentiations to apply to the data based upon the determined world that best fits the data . In some embodiments the worlds are stored by the transformation engine as shown in . The world chooser module can consider for example the shape of the data hierarchies identified within the data and other aspects of the data .

As mentioned above the data can include various data elements . Thus while various operations and or analyses are described herein with respect to the data it should be understood that these and or other operations can be taken with respect to the data elements . Thus the world chooser module can for example consider relationships between and or hierarchies among the data elements to select the world . These and other aspects of selecting a world are set forth below in further detail with reference to .

The rules can include adaptive rules that are configured to convert the data which can include arbitrary content into the output based upon the variations and the world chosen. In other words the rules can include categories of translations that can be applied to the data to obtain the output . Thus in some embodiments the rules include one or more sets of rules for each world and the rules are selected by the computing device based upon which world is chosen. As such the rules can be tailored operations steps or rules for converting or translating the data into the output . It should be understood that the data may not always be a direct translation into the output . In particular the content or layout of the data may be manipulated during translation of the data into the output . It should be understood that this embodiment is illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

The rules can be used to select portions of the data for example the data elements described in more detail below that are to be included in a layout or other form of the output . In particular the rules can be used to select the information or data elements for each view in the output and to define what type of information and or what data elements are needed desired or appropriate at any given location within a layout view or other output associated with the chosen world. Developers or other entities can specify by way of the rules what information is to be presented in each view or layout.

The rules also can be used to determine a flow progression and or layout of the data elements or other information selected for the output . In particular the computing device can apply the rules to provide decision making capability when the transformation engine generates layouts associated with the output . The layouts can define what types of information or data elements are used in what grid cells on the screen or defining location of the data elements using other approaches for placing the data elements on the screen while the rules can define how the information flows or is modified stylistically or otherwise for example the size shape or other aspect of the information once the information is placed in the layout. In some cases the rules also can handle how the layout is adjusted if information flows beyond the predefined default layout.

The rules also can be applied to the data to upgrade or otherwise modify one or more of the data elements or other information to be included in the output . It therefore can be appreciated that the flow handling behavior of a world for any type of data can be changed by modifying the rules associated with the world. In particular the rules can be used to improve upgrade or otherwise modify data elements or other portions of the data . For example if a data element includes a low resolution image upgrading the data element can include replacing the low resolution image with an image having a higher resolution applying image treatments such as blur or the like to the image to create an artistic representation or the like. Similarly if the data element includes a data table upgrading or improving the data element can include replacing the data table with a graph. These and or other types of upgrades improvements and or other modifications can be controlled by the rules . Thus a designer can be given the ability to articulate how specific types of information will be upgraded or otherwise modified using an available set of tools such as upgrading an image converting to a graph etc. In some embodiments the designer can articulate the various rules prior to the application of the rules as described herein. As such it should be understood that the articulation of the rules can occur at almost any time and that the utilization of the rules can occur at almost any time including long after the rules have been articulated. It should be understood that these embodiments are illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

The rules also can be applied to the data to score one or more layouts or other forms of the output . In particular the rules can be used to facilitate selection of a layout by providing feedback regarding how information handled for a given layout and whether a quality bar has been met. Accurate scores for each layout within a world can be obtained and the scores can be adjusted through a set of rules without recompilation of the codebase.

The rules also can be used to score the various worlds considered by the transformation engine and the scores can be passed to the world chooser module for scoring the worlds under consideration. In particular the rules can be used to facilitate selection of one of the worlds by generating feedback regarding quality of fit of information being placed in the world. The rules may not make a final decision about world ranking but can be a component that provides information to help make the decision. Accurate scores for each world that describes the fit of the world for the information set can be obtained and the scores can be adjusted using a set of rules without recompilation of the codebase.

According to various implementations of the transformation engine the rules can be created modified and or deleted by designers users or other entities. As such the rules can be accessible to designers to articulate the rules in a way that fits with the designers workflow. In some embodiments tools for allowing the designer to articulate all of the necessary information ideally in a visual way to address the prior goals in this list. Additional aspects of the rules are described herein and as such the above uses of the rules should be understood as being illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

Thus the rules can be applied to adjust how the data is presented by application of a particular world. For example the rules can be applied to the data to adjust the readability of text. These adjustments can be based for example upon a relative ease with which a typeface can be read when characters are laid out in words sentences and paragraphs upon an assumption that long blocks of text need to be readable to hold the reader and or to boost comprehension upon an assumption that setting text in columns can provide short line length which can improve readability upon rules that assume that text set with ragged right alignment is more readable than text that is force justified or manipulated to line up on the left and right margins upon rules for introducing white space subheads and or other elements to divide text to give eyes of a reader resting places to help prevent fatigue by adjusting leading based on number of lines of text by adjusting line length based on amount of content and layout by adjusting the content based upon capabilities of a device used to view the content e.g. screen size resolution input devices or the like by adjusting font size based on an amount of content and or by applying other adjustments or modifications to the data. It should be understood that this embodiment is illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

The rules also can be used to improve the legibility of the output . For example the rules can be used to evaluate how easily one letter can be distinguished from another or a clarity associated with a typestyle. The rules also can be used to overlay transparent fields so text is legible to overlay semi transparent backgrounds behind text so the text is more legible than without the semi transparent backgrounds to apply rules for darkening and or lightening images and or portions thereof to adjust font size to improve and or insure legibility to add drop shadow to make text more legible by repositioning and or scaling images to place in regions of a layout such that space for text is left to improve legibility of the text to add subtle transparency behind text to apply photo darkening to transform the image to apply other adjustments or the like.

The rules also can be used to improve the quality of the output . For example the rules can be used to align text on gridlines and or adjusting placement of the text so the text visually lines up on the grid to define text size relationships so that text is optimized for body copy and title copy overlaid on an image by adjusting leading based on a number of lines of text by applying text kerning text leading baseline alignment of text of various sizes and the like. The rules also can be used to identify structure in photos so that photos overlaying content relate to the underlying structure in the photo. Similarly the rules can be used to ensure that text blocks align with one another and or with other text such that the text blocks flow together to ensure proper placement alignment depending on variable strings. It should be understood that these embodiments are illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

The rules also can be used to adjust images. For example the rules can be used to provide cropping of images based on one or more salient regions to upgrade images to crop and or avoid cropping images in one or more directions and or to maintain image orientations.

The rules also can be used to search for and or generate a summarization of the data . The rules also can be used to upgrade the data and or data elements for example by using global positioning system GPS or map data to obtain additional information about the places locations referenced in the data to add current statistics and or other types of live content to add related information such as a number of comments a number of times the content has been linked to a number of times the content has been downloaded or the like. The rules also can be used to size the data and or data elements . These embodiments are illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

The rules also can be used to affect how each data element moves relative to other data elements . For example some text may react when interacted with and or hovered over movement or animation may be affected by speed of movement or what user is interacting with the data ambient motion can be applied until a click or touch gesture is detected or the like. These and other movements and or relative positioning of the data elements can be determined by the rules . The rules also can be used to determine orders of the data elements how content is navigated to e.g. a number of clicks swipes screens to navigate through or the like .

As mentioned above the rules also can be used to create variations in the data elements and or other portions of the data . The rules can apply some variations based upon what data or data elements surround a particular data portion or data element . The variations also can be based upon the content. For example if the data corresponds to timeline based data the world or layout can be chosen based upon an assumption or recognition that few images are included. It should be understood that this embodiment is illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

The rules also can be used to select size and or otherwise format typefaces and or other settings associated with text. For example the rules can be used to select a highlight color and or complimentary colors for text or fields nearby. The rules also can be used to define a color palette based upon on a source of the content. For example a color scheme can be selected based upon a color scheme associated with a particular brand color schemes included in the data or the like. Motion also can be varied and or selected based upon the rules . It should be understood that these embodiments are illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

The authoring module can be configured to analyze feedback regarding the output from a user or other entity. The feedback can be obtained by the authoring module and or can be obtained by the transformation engine and passed to the authoring module . The authoring module can be configured to apply the feedback to the output to modify the output . The authoring module also can be configured to store the feedback for future uses of the transformation engine .

Thus although not shown in it should be understood that user preferences can be developed by the transformation engine and can be stored and applied by the transformation engine if desired. As explained above with regard to modifying output based upon feedback the authoring module can be configured to prompt for the feedback or can be configured to receive the feedback from a user or other entity. The feedback can be provided in terms of likes or dislikes as yes no or true false answers to questions as rating information such as numbers of stars numbers within ranges letter grades through extrapolation of simple actions such as selection or reordering or the like. The feedback can be interpreted by the authoring module .

As noted above in addition to changing the output based upon dislikes the authoring module also can be configured to modify the output based upon likes. In particular the transformation engine can repeat and or use more often various aspects of the output that are liked by users. It should be understood that a user s likes or dislikes also can be used by the transformation engine for other users. In particular the transformation engine can be configured to recognize similarities between and or among various users based upon preferences based upon social networking information and or based upon other information and that the transformation engine can apply a particular user s preferences to another user who is considered to be or is indicated as being similar to the user. It should be understood that these embodiments are illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

In light of the above description of it should be understood that the computing device described herein can provide the functions of the transformation engine and or the various modules of the transformation engine by execution of any number of applications software components modules or other instructions. As such when the specification refers to functions of the computing device it should be understood that the functionality described can include functionality provided by any of the software modules data and or hardware elements described herein. Furthermore it should be understood that the transformation engine can operate as a technology layer that is called or accessed by various programs executing at the computing device . Similarly the transformation engine can be operated as a service that can be called by various applications or devices. As such the various described embodiments are illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

Turning now to aspects of a method for transforming data into consumable content will be described in detail. It should be understood that the operations of the method disclosed herein are not necessarily presented in any particular order and that performance of some or all of the operations in an alternative order s is possible and is contemplated. The operations have been presented in the demonstrated order for ease of description and illustration. Operations may be added omitted and or performed simultaneously without departing from the scope of the appended claims.

It also should be understood that the illustrated method can be ended at any time and need not be performed in its entirety. Some or all operations of the method and or substantially equivalent operations can be performed by execution of computer readable instructions included on a computer storage media as defined herein. The term computer readable instructions and variants thereof as used in the description and claims is used expansively herein to include routines applications application modules program modules programs components data structures algorithms and the like. Computer readable instructions can be implemented on various system configurations including single processor or multiprocessor systems minicomputers mainframe computers personal computers hand held computing devices microprocessor based programmable consumer electronics combinations thereof and the like.

Thus it should be appreciated that the logical operations described herein are implemented 1 as a sequence of computer implemented acts or program modules running on a computing system and or 3 as interconnected machine logic circuits or circuit modules within the computing system. The implementation is a matter of choice dependent on the performance and other requirements of the computing system. Accordingly the logical operations described herein are referred to variously as states operations structural devices acts or modules. These operations structural devices acts and modules may be implemented in software in firmware in special purpose digital logic and any combination thereof.

For purposes of illustrating and describing the concepts of the present disclosure the method disclosed herein is described as being performed by the computing device via execution of computer executable instructions such as for example the transformation engine . As explained above with regard to the transformation engine can include several modules and or other data that can be executed and or used by the computing device to provide the functionality described herein. It should be understood that additional or alternative devices can provide the functionality described herein via execution of instructions other than or in addition to the transformation engine . As such it should be understood that these embodiments are illustrative and should not be viewed as being limiting in any way.

The method begins at operation wherein the computing device obtains the data . As explained above the data can include various types of information or content such as for example media files including but not limited to video files animation files slide show files image files audio files other media files or the like text documents plain text web pages web content rich text or the like and or other types of information. In one contemplated embodiment the data corresponds to a presentation file such as a file generated by a member of the MICROSOFT POWERPOINT family of presentation software products from Microsoft Corporation in Redmond Wash. In light of the various types of information that can be provided as the data it should be understood that this embodiment is illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

According to various implementations the data is obtained from a data storage device or component associated with the computing device . Some examples of data storage devices are described in more detail below with reference to . In some other embodiments the data can be stored at a remote storage device or resource such as the data source described herein. Thus the data can be obtained by the computing device via communications with the data source . As such it should be understood that the data can be obtained from any real or virtual device via a direct connection via one or more networks and or via other nodes devices and or device components.

From operation the method proceeds to operation wherein the computing device can identify relationships between data elements or other portions of the data . Some types of information and some embodiments of the data can be arranged or organized in a flow based arrangement and or otherwise may not be arranged in a logical and or hierarchical arrangement. For example each slide or page of a document such as a word processing document or a presentation may include data elements such as a title one or more paragraphs of text one or more sentences one or more words one or more bullet points one or more numbered lists one or more tables one or more images and or other objects. In some instances each slide or page can be directed to or addresses a different topic or sub topic. In some other instances each slide or page can be directed to a same or similar topic. Operation can include determining and identifying relationships between the various data elements or other portions of the data . In some embodiments the computing device provides the functionality described herein with respect to operation via execution of the decomposition and understanding module . It should be understood that this embodiment is illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

In one contemplated example a ten page document can include a title on each page. The title can be indicated by a block or field that is labeled title and or can be determined to include a title based upon the location formatting size color contents or other aspect of the information. Thus if three of the ten pages include the same or similar title information the three pages can be considered to be related and information on the three pages can be determined to share a relationship to the title. In another example the computing device can be configured to consider a numbered list or bulleted list under a heading as being related to the heading. Similarly the computing device can be configured to consider numbered or bulleted items within the lists as being related to one another.

Thus it can be appreciated that the location size format content and or other aspects of text images or other data as well as relative position location format size contents or other aspects of the data relative to other data in the documents can be used to determine relationships between the data in operation . Because many other approaches for identifying relationships between various data elements or other portions of the data are contemplated it should be understood that these embodiments are illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

From operation the method proceeds to operation wherein the computing device determines variations to apply to the data . In operation the computing device can examine the relationships determined in operation to determine how the data is to be presented. In particular the computing device can examine various factors associated with the data and determine how to add variations to the data . Thus for example the computing device can determine visual effects designs and or other variations that can be applied to the data to present the relationships determined in operation in various ways. In one contemplated embodiment the computing device provides the functionality described herein with respect to operation via execution of the variation module . It should be understood that this embodiment is illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

From operation the method proceeds to operation wherein the computing device chooses a world for presenting the data . As mentioned above the term world as used herein can include a type of visualization and or theme that can be applied to the data and used to generate the output . In operation the computing device can select a world based upon the various aspects of the data the variations identified in operation relationships between the data elements and or based upon other considerations. For example the computing device can be configured to examine a shape of the data such as for example an overall mood or tone of the data a length of the data such as a presentation or document a text to image ratio of the data a number of images or other media objects in the data a total number of text characters words sentences paragraphs or the like in the data an expected audience of the output an expected venue for viewing the output an expected display medium such as a display device expected to be used to view the output a location at which the output may be viewed hierarchies within the data and or among data elements input mechanisms that may be used when viewing or interacting with the output relative sizes of the visual objects or other data elements such as text images or the like and or other aspects of the data .

In selecting a world the computing device can consider a number of worlds or can identify a single world that fits the data and or the determined relationships hierarchies mood shape and or other aspects of the data and or the data elements . Thus operation can include selecting a highest ranked world from a number of available worlds identifying a single world based upon the variations or receiving input specifying a particular world . In one contemplated embodiment the computing device provides the functionality described herein with respect to operation via execution of the world chooser module . It should be understood that this embodiment is illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

From operation the method proceeds to operation wherein the computer device obtains rules associated with the chosen world . In operation the computing device can apply the rules associated with the selected world to the data . Via application of the rules to the data the computing device can be configured to present the data in a designed way. In particular the rules can specify how data is to be presented in a particular world . Thus operation can include obtaining the rules based at least partially upon the world chosen in operation .

From operation the method proceeds to operation wherein the computer device applies the rules obtained in operation . As mentioned above the computing device can apply the rules to the data to format the data in a format or form associated with the world chosen in operation . For example a rule can define a font in which text is to be presented a size for displayed images or other instructions for modifying the data to obtain the output . It should be understood that this embodiment is illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

From operation the method proceeds to operation wherein the computer device generates the output . In operation the computing device can apply the variations world and rules identified in operations to the data . From operation the method proceeds to operation wherein the computer device presents the output . The output can be presented for example on a display device associated with the computing device and or another device. In some embodiments the computing device can be configured to save the output to a data storage device for later viewing or presentation although such an operation is not shown in . For purposes of describing the various embodiments of the concepts and technologies disclosed herein the method is described with respect to an embodiment in which the output is displayed on a display device associated with the computing device . It should be understood that this embodiment is illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

From operation the method proceeds to operation wherein the computer device determines if the output is to be modified based upon feedback received at the computing device . Thus while not shown in the method can include an operation for receiving feedback at the computing device and or for prompting a user or other entity for feedback regarding the output . In some embodiments for example the output is presented and a user is prompted for feedback regarding the output . For example a user may be asked if the output is visually appealing if a particular color is liked or disliked if the layout of the elements is liked or disliked and or other questions. In some embodiments the computing device receives feedback and or comments regarding almost any aspect of the output .

In response to the feedback received at the computing device the computing device can determine that the output is to be modified. For example the computing device can determine that a color a layout a color scheme a theme a mood or other aspect of the output is to be modified in response to the feedback . It should be understood that in determining that the output is to be modified the computing device can determine that the variations determined in operation and or the world chosen in operation may be changed among other aspects of the output . Because almost any aspect of the output can be changed it should be understood that these embodiments are illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

If the computing device determines in operation that the output is to be modified the method proceeds to operation wherein the computing device modifies the output . As mentioned above the modifications to the output can include resizing text resizing images changing formats of text or images changing text fonts sizes or colors changing worlds changing visualization modes changing variations or types of variations and or otherwise modifying the output . Because additional or alternative modifications can be made to the output it should be understood that these embodiments are illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

From operation the method returns to operation wherein the output is again generated by the computing device . A such it can be appreciated that operations of the method can be repeated until in any iteration of operation the computing device determines that the output is not to be modified. If the computing device determines that the output is not to be modified the method proceeds to operation . The method ends at operation .

The computer architecture illustrated in includes a central processing unit CPU a system memory including a random access memory RAM and a read only memory ROM and a system bus that couples the memory to the CPU . A basic input output system containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within the computer architecture such as during startup is stored in the ROM . The computer architecture further includes a mass storage device for storing the operating system and one or more application programs including but not limited to the transformation engine . Although not shown in the mass storage device also can be configured to store the data the output the rules the worlds the data elements the feedback and or other applications modules or other information described herein.

The mass storage device is connected to the CPU through a mass storage controller not shown connected to the bus . The mass storage device and its associated computer readable media provide non volatile storage for the computer architecture . Although the description of computer readable media contained herein refers to a mass storage device such as a hard disk or CD ROM drive it should be appreciated by those skilled in the art that computer readable media can be any available computer storage media or communication media that can be accessed by the computer architecture .

Communication media includes computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics changed or set in a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media includes wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media. Combinations of the any of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

By way of example and not limitation computer storage media may include volatile and non volatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. For example computer media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EPROM EEPROM flash memory or other solid state memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD HD DVD BLU RAY or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the computer architecture . For purposes the claims the phrase computer storage medium and variations thereof does not include waves signals and or other transitory and or intangible communication media per se.

According to various embodiments the computer architecture may operate in a networked environment using logical connections to remote computers through a network such as the network . The computer architecture may connect to the network through a network interface unit connected to the bus . It should be appreciated that the network interface unit also may be utilized to connect to other types of networks and remote computer systems for example the data source . The computer architecture also may include an input output controller for receiving and processing input from a number of other devices including a keyboard mouse or electronic stylus not shown in . Similarly the input output controller may provide output to a display screen a printer or other type of output device also not shown in .

It should be appreciated that the software components described herein may when loaded into the CPU and executed transform the CPU and the overall computer architecture from a general purpose computing system into a special purpose computing system customized to facilitate the functionality presented herein. The CPU may be constructed from any number of transistors or other discrete circuit elements which may individually or collectively assume any number of states. More specifically the CPU may operate as a finite state machine in response to executable instructions contained within the software modules disclosed herein. These computer executable instructions may transform the CPU by specifying how the CPU transitions between states thereby transforming the transistors or other discrete hardware elements constituting the CPU .

Encoding the software modules presented herein also may transform the physical structure of the computer readable media presented herein. The specific transformation of physical structure may depend on various factors in different implementations of this description. Examples of such factors may include but are not limited to the technology used to implement the computer readable media whether the computer readable media is characterized as primary or secondary storage and the like. For example if the computer readable media is implemented as semiconductor based memory the software disclosed herein may be encoded on the computer readable media by transforming the physical state of the semiconductor memory. For example the software may transform the state of transistors capacitors or other discrete circuit elements constituting the semiconductor memory. The software also may transform the physical state of such components in order to store data thereupon.

As another example the computer readable media disclosed herein may be implemented using magnetic or optical technology. In such implementations the software presented herein may transform the physical state of magnetic or optical media when the software is encoded therein. These transformations may include altering the magnetic characteristics of particular locations within given magnetic media. These transformations also may include altering the physical features or characteristics of particular locations within given optical media to change the optical characteristics of those locations. Other transformations of physical media are possible without departing from the scope and spirit of the present description with the foregoing examples provided only to facilitate this discussion.

In light of the above it should be appreciated that many types of physical transformations take place in the computer architecture in order to store and execute the software components presented herein. It also should be appreciated that the computer architecture may include other types of computing devices including hand held computers embedded computer systems personal digital assistants and other types of computing devices known to those skilled in the art. It is also contemplated that the computer architecture may not include all of the components shown in may include other components that are not explicitly shown in or may utilize an architecture completely different than that shown in .

According to various implementations the distributed computing environment includes a computing environment operating on in communication with or as part of the network . The network also can include various access networks. According to various implementations the functionality of the network is provided by the network illustrated in . One or more client devices A N hereinafter referred to collectively and or generically as clients can communicate with the computing environment via the network and or other connections not illustrated in . In the illustrated embodiment the clients include a computing device A such as a laptop computer a desktop computer or other computing device a slate or tablet computing device tablet computing device B a mobile computing device C such as a mobile telephone a smart phone or other mobile computing device a server computer D and or other devices N. It should be understood that any number of clients can communicate with the computing environment . Two example computing architectures for the clients are illustrated and described herein with reference to . It should be understood that the illustrated clients and computing architectures illustrated and described herein are illustrative and should not be construed as being limited in any way.

In the illustrated embodiment the computing environment includes application servers data storage and one or more network interfaces . According to various implementations the functionality of the application servers can be provided by one or more server computers that are executing as part of or in communication with the network . The application servers can host various services virtual machines portals and or other resources. In the illustrated embodiment the application servers host one or more virtual machines for hosting applications or other functionality. According to various implementations the virtual machines host one or more applications and or software modules for providing the functionality described herein for transforming data into consumable content. It should be understood that this embodiment is illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way. The application servers also host or provide access to one or more Web portals link pages Web sites and or other information Web portals .

According to various implementations the application servers also include one or more mailbox services and one or more messaging services . The mailbox services can include electronic mail email services. The mailbox services also can include various personal information management PIM services including but not limited to calendar services contact management services collaboration services and or other services. The messaging services can include but are not limited to instant messaging services chat services forum services and or other communication services.

The application servers also can include one or more social networking services . The social networking services can include various social networking services including but not limited to services for sharing or posting status updates instant messages links photos videos and or other information services for commenting or displaying interest in articles products blogs or other resources and or other services. In some embodiments the social networking services are provided by or include the FACEBOOK social networking service the LINKEDIN professional networking service the MYSPACE social networking service the FOURSQUARE geographic networking service the YAMMER office colleague networking service and the like. In other embodiments the social networking services are provided by other services sites and or providers that may or may not explicitly be known as social networking providers. For example some web sites allow users to interact with one another via email chat services and or other means during various activities and or contexts such as reading published articles commenting on goods or services publishing collaboration gaming and the like. Examples of such services include but are not limited to the WINDOWS LIVE service and the XBOX LIVE service from Microsoft Corporation in Redmond Wash. Other services are possible and are contemplated.

The social networking services also can include commenting blogging and or microblogging services. Examples of such services include but are not limited to the YELP commenting service the KUDZU review service the OFFICETALK enterprise microblogging service the TWITTER messaging service the GOOGLE BUZZ service and or other services. It should be appreciated that the above lists of services are not exhaustive and that numerous additional and or alternative social networking services are not mentioned herein for the sake of brevity. As such the above embodiments are illustrative and should not be construed as being limited in any way.

As shown in the application servers also can host other services applications portals and or other resources other resources . It thus can be appreciated that the computing environment can provide integration of the concepts and technologies disclosed herein provided herein for transforming data into consumable content with various mailbox messaging social networking and or other services or resources. For example the concepts and technologies disclosed herein can be used to transform social networking data or mailbox data into visual content for a user. Similarly the concepts and technologies disclosed herein can be used to transform messaging or other resources into visual content. It should be understood that these embodiments are illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

As mentioned above the computing environment can include the data storage . According to various implementations the functionality of the data storage is provided by one or more databases operating on or in communication with the network . The functionality of the data storage also can be provided by one or more server computers configured to host data for the computing environment . The data storage can include host or provide one or more real or virtual datastores A N hereinafter referred to collectively and or generically as datastores . The datastores are configured to host data used or created by the application servers and or other data. Although not illustrated in the datastores also can host or store the data the output the rules the worlds the data elements the feedback and or other data computer executable instructions or other information described herein.

The computing environment can communicate with or be accessed by the network interfaces . The network interfaces can include various types of network hardware and software for supporting communications between two or more computing devices including but not limited to the clients and the application servers . It should be appreciated that the network interfaces also may be utilized to connect to other types of networks and or computer systems.

It should be understood that the distributed computing environment described herein can provide any aspects of the software elements described herein with any number of virtual computing resources and or other distributed computing functionality that can be configured to execute any aspects of the software components disclosed herein. According to various implementations of the concepts and technologies disclosed herein the distributed computing environment provides the software functionality described herein as a service to the clients . It should be understood that the clients can include real or virtual machines including but not limited to server computers web servers personal computers mobile computing devices smart phones and or other devices. As such various embodiments of the concepts and technologies disclosed herein enable any device configured to access the distributed computing environment to utilize the functionality described herein for transforming data into consumable content.

Turning now to an illustrative computing device architecture for a computing device that is capable of executing various software components described herein for transforming data into consumable content. The computing device architecture is applicable to computing devices that facilitate mobile computing due in part to form factor wireless connectivity and or battery powered operation. In some embodiments the computing devices include but are not limited to mobile telephones tablet devices slate devices portable video game devices and the like. Moreover the computing device architecture is applicable to any of the clients shown in . Furthermore aspects of the computing device architecture may be applicable to traditional desktop computers portable computers e.g. laptops notebooks ultra portables and netbooks server computers and other computer systems such as described herein with reference to . For example the single touch and multi touch aspects disclosed herein below may be applied to desktop computers that utilize a touchscreen or some other touch enabled device such as a touch enabled track pad or touch enabled mouse.

The computing device architecture illustrated in includes a processor memory components network connectivity components sensor components input output components and power components . In the illustrated embodiment the processor is in communication with the memory components the network connectivity components the sensor components the input output I O components and the power components . Although no connections are shown between the individuals components illustrated in the components can interact to carry out device functions. In some embodiments the components are arranged so as to communicate via one or more busses not shown .

The processor includes a central processing unit CPU configured to process data execute computer executable instructions of one or more application programs and communicate with other components of the computing device architecture in order to perform various functionality described herein. The processor may be utilized to execute aspects of the software components presented herein and particularly those that utilize at least in part a touch enabled input.

In some embodiments the processor includes a graphics processing unit GPU configured to accelerate operations performed by the CPU including but not limited to operations performed by executing general purpose scientific and engineering computing applications as well as graphics intensive computing applications such as high resolution video e.g. P P and greater video games three dimensional D modeling applications and the like. In some embodiments the processor is configured to communicate with a discrete GPU not shown . In any case the CPU and GPU may be configured in accordance with a co processing CPU GPU computing model wherein the sequential part of an application executes on the CPU and the computationally intensive part is accelerated by the GPU.

In some embodiments the processor is or is included in a system on chip SoC along with one or more of the other components described herein below. For example the SoC may include the processor a GPU one or more of the network connectivity components and one or more of the sensor components . In some embodiments the processor is fabricated in part utilizing a package on package PoP integrated circuit packaging technique. Moreover the processor may be a single core or multi core processor.

The processor may be created in accordance with an ARM architecture available for license from ARM HOLDINGS of Cambridge United Kingdom. Alternatively the processor may be created in accordance with an x86 architecture such as is available from INTEL CORPORATION of Mountain View Calif. and others. In some embodiments the processor is a SNAPDRAGON SoC available from QUALCOMM of San Diego Calif. a TEGRA SoC available from NVIDIA of Santa Clara Calif. a HUMMINGBIRD SoC available from SAMSUNG of Seoul South Korea an Open Multimedia Application Platform OMAP SoC available from TEXAS INSTRUMENTS of Dallas Tex. a customized version of any of the above SoCs or a proprietary SoC.

The memory components include a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an integrated storage memory integrated storage and a removable storage memory removable storage . In some embodiments the RAM or a portion thereof the ROM or a portion thereof and or some combination the RAM and the ROM is integrated in the processor . In some embodiments the ROM is configured to store a firmware an operating system or a portion thereof e.g. operating system kernel and or a bootloader to load an operating system kernel from the integrated storage or the removable storage .

The integrated storage can include a solid state memory a hard disk or a combination of solid state memory and a hard disk. The integrated storage may be soldered or otherwise connected to a logic board upon which the processor and other components described herein also may be connected. As such the integrated storage is integrated in the computing device. The integrated storage is configured to store an operating system or portions thereof application programs data and other software components described herein.

The removable storage can include a solid state memory a hard disk or a combination of solid state memory and a hard disk. In some embodiments the removable storage is provided in lieu of the integrated storage . In other embodiments the removable storage is provided as additional optional storage. In some embodiments the removable storage is logically combined with the integrated storage such that the total available storage is made available and shown to a user as a total combined capacity of the integrated storage and the removable storage .

The removable storage is configured to be inserted into a removable storage memory slot not shown or other mechanism by which the removable storage is inserted and secured to facilitate a connection over which the removable storage can communicate with other components of the computing device such as the processor . The removable storage may be embodied in various memory card formats including but not limited to PC card CompactFlash card memory stick secure digital SD miniSD microSD universal integrated circuit card UICC e.g. a subscriber identity module SIM or universal SIM USIM a proprietary format or the like.

It can be understood that one or more of the memory components can store an operating system. According to various embodiments the operating system includes but is not limited to SYMBIAN OS from SYMBIAN LIMITED WINDOWS MOBILE OS from Microsoft Corporation of Redmond Wash. WINDOWS PHONE OS from Microsoft Corporation WINDOWS from Microsoft Corporation PALM WEBOS from Hewlett Packard Company of Palo Alto Calif. BLACKBERRY OS from Research In Motion Limited of Waterloo Ontario Canada IOS from Apple Inc. of Cupertino Calif. and ANDROID OS from Google Inc. of Mountain View Calif. Other operating systems are contemplated.

The network connectivity components include a wireless wide area network component WWAN component a wireless local area network component WLAN component and a wireless personal area network component WPAN component . The network connectivity components facilitate communications to and from a network which may be a WWAN a WLAN or a WPAN. Although a single network is illustrated the network connectivity components may facilitate simultaneous communication with multiple networks. For example the network connectivity components may facilitate simultaneous communications with multiple networks via one or more of a WWAN a WLAN or a WPAN.

In some embodiments the functionality of the network is provided by one or more of the networks . In some embodiments the network includes one or more of the networks . In some other embodiments the network provides access to one or more of the networks .

The network may be a WWAN such as a mobile telecommunications network utilizing one or more mobile telecommunications technologies to provide voice and or data services to a computing device utilizing the computing device architecture via the WWAN component . The mobile telecommunications technologies can include but are not limited to Global System for Mobile communications GSM Code Division Multiple Access CDMA ONE CDMA2000 Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS Long Term Evolution LTE and Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX . Moreover the network may utilize various channel access methods which may or may not be used by the aforementioned standards including but not limited to Time Division Multiple Access TDMA Frequency Division Multiple Access FDMA CDMA wideband CDMA W CDMA Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing OFDM Space Division Multiple Access SDMA and the like. Data communications may be provided using General Packet Radio Service GPRS Enhanced Data rates for Global Evolution EDGE the High Speed Packet Access HSPA protocol family including High Speed Downlink Packet Access HSDPA Enhanced Uplink EUL or otherwise termed High Speed Uplink Packet Access HSUPA Evolved HSPA HSPA LTE and various other current and future wireless data access standards. The network may be configured to provide voice and or data communications with any combination of the above technologies. The network may be configured to or adapted to provide voice and or data communications in accordance with future generation technologies.

In some embodiments the WWAN component is configured to provide dual multi mode connectivity to the network . For example the WWAN component may be configured to provide connectivity to the network wherein the network provides service via GSM and UMTS technologies or via some other combination of technologies. Alternatively multiple WWAN components may be utilized to perform such functionality and or provide additional functionality to support other non compatible technologies i.e. incapable of being supported by a single WWAN component . The WWAN component may facilitate similar connectivity to multiple networks e.g. a UMTS network and an LTE network .

The network may be a WLAN operating in accordance with one or more Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers IEEE 802.11 standards such as IEEE 802.11a 802.11b 802.11g 802.11n and or future 802.11 standard referred to herein collectively as WI FI . Draft 802.11 standards are also contemplated. In some embodiments the WLAN is implemented utilizing one or more wireless WI FI access points. In some embodiments one or more of the wireless WI FI access points are another computing device with connectivity to a WWAN that are functioning as a WI FI hotspot. The WLAN component is configured to connect to the network via the WI FI access points. Such connections may be secured via various encryption technologies including but not limited WI FI Protected Access WPA WPA2 Wired Equivalent Privacy WEP and the like.

The network may be a WPAN operating in accordance with Infrared Data Association IrDA BLUETOOTH wireless Universal Serial Bus USB Z Wave ZIGBEE or some other short range wireless technology. In some embodiments the WPAN component is configured to facilitate communications with other devices such as peripherals computers or other computing devices via the WPAN.

The sensor components include a magnetometer an ambient light sensor a proximity sensor an accelerometer a gyroscope and a Global Positioning System sensor GPS sensor . It is contemplated that other sensors such as but not limited to temperature sensors or shock detection sensors also may be incorporated in the computing device architecture .

The magnetometer is configured to measure the strength and direction of a magnetic field. In some embodiments the magnetometer provides measurements to a compass application program stored within one of the memory components in order to provide a user with accurate directions in a frame of reference including the cardinal directions north south east and west. Similar measurements may be provided to a navigation application program that includes a compass component. Other uses of measurements obtained by the magnetometer are contemplated.

The ambient light sensor is configured to measure ambient light. In some embodiments the ambient light sensor provides measurements to an application program stored within one the memory components in order to automatically adjust the brightness of a display described below to compensate for low light and high light environments. Other uses of measurements obtained by the ambient light sensor are contemplated.

The proximity sensor is configured to detect the presence of an object or thing in proximity to the computing device without direct contact. In some embodiments the proximity sensor detects the presence of a user s body e.g. the user s face and provides this information to an application program stored within one of the memory components that utilizes the proximity information to enable or disable some functionality of the computing device. For example a telephone application program may automatically disable a touchscreen described below in response to receiving the proximity information so that the user s face does not inadvertently end a call or enable disable other functionality within the telephone application program during the call. Other uses of proximity as detected by the proximity sensor are contemplated.

The accelerometer is configured to measure proper acceleration. In some embodiments output from the accelerometer is used by an application program as an input mechanism to control some functionality of the application program. For example the application program may be a video game in which a character a portion thereof or an object is moved or otherwise manipulated in response to input received via the accelerometer . In some embodiments output from the accelerometer is provided to an application program for use in switching between landscape and portrait modes calculating coordinate acceleration or detecting a fall. Other uses of the accelerometer are contemplated.

The gyroscope is configured to measure and maintain orientation. In some embodiments output from the gyroscope is used by an application program as an input mechanism to control some functionality of the application program. For example the gyroscope can be used for accurate recognition of movement within a D environment of a video game application or some other application. In some embodiments an application program utilizes output from the gyroscope and the accelerometer to enhance control of some functionality of the application program. Other uses of the gyroscope are contemplated.

The GPS sensor is configured to receive signals from GPS satellites for use in calculating a location. The location calculated by the GPS sensor may be used by any application program that requires or benefits from location information. For example the location calculated by the GPS sensor may be used with a navigation application program to provide directions from the location to a destination or directions from the destination to the location. Moreover the GPS sensor may be used to provide location information to an external location based service such as E911 service. The GPS sensor may obtain location information generated via WI FI WIMAX and or cellular triangulation techniques utilizing one or more of the network connectivity components to aid the GPS sensor in obtaining a location fix. The GPS sensor may also be used in Assisted GPS A GPS systems.

The I O components include a display a touchscreen a data I O interface component data I O an audio I O interface component audio I O a video I O interface component video I O and a camera . In some embodiments the display and the touchscreen are combined. In some embodiments two or more of the data I O component the audio I O component and the video I O component are combined. The I O components may include discrete processors configured to support the various interface described below or may include processing functionality built in to the processor .

The display is an output device configured to present information in a visual form. In particular the display may present graphical user interface GUI elements text images video notifications virtual buttons virtual keyboards messaging data Internet content device status time date calendar data preferences map information location information and any other information that is capable of being presented in a visual form. In some embodiments the display is a liquid crystal display LCD utilizing any active or passive matrix technology and any backlighting technology if used . In some embodiments the display is an organic light emitting diode OLED display. Other display types are contemplated.

The touchscreen is an input device configured to detect the presence and location of a touch. The touchscreen may be a resistive touchscreen a capacitive touchscreen a surface acoustic wave touchscreen an infrared touchscreen an optical imaging touchscreen a dispersive signal touchscreen an acoustic pulse recognition touchscreen or may utilize any other touchscreen technology. In some embodiments the touchscreen is incorporated on top of the display as a transparent layer to enable a user to use one or more touches to interact with objects or other information presented on the display . In other embodiments the touchscreen is a touch pad incorporated on a surface of the computing device that does not include the display . For example the computing device may have a touchscreen incorporated on top of the display and a touch pad on a surface opposite the display .

In some embodiments the touchscreen is a single touch touchscreen. In other embodiments the touchscreen is a multi touch touchscreen. In some embodiments the touchscreen is configured to detect discrete touches single touch gestures and or multi touch gestures. These are collectively referred to herein as gestures for convenience. Several gestures will now be described. It should be understood that these gestures are illustrative and are not intended to limit the scope of the appended claims. Moreover the described gestures additional gestures and or alternative gestures may be implemented in software for use with the touchscreen . As such a developer may create gestures that are specific to a particular application program.

In some embodiments the touchscreen supports a tap gesture in which a user taps the touchscreen once on an item presented on the display . The tap gesture may be used for various reasons including but not limited to opening or launching whatever the user taps. In some embodiments the touchscreen supports a double tap gesture in which a user taps the touchscreen twice on an item presented on the display . The double tap gesture may be used for various reasons including but not limited to zooming in or zooming out in stages. In some embodiments the touchscreen supports a tap and hold gesture in which a user taps the touchscreen and maintains contact for at least a pre defined time. The tap and hold gesture may be used for various reasons including but not limited to opening a context specific menu.

In some embodiments the touchscreen supports a pan gesture in which a user places a finger on the touchscreen and maintains contact with the touchscreen while moving the finger on the touchscreen . The pan gesture may be used for various reasons including but not limited to moving through screens images or menus at a controlled rate. Multiple finger pan gestures are also contemplated. In some embodiments the touchscreen supports a flick gesture in which a user swipes a finger in the direction the user wants the screen to move. The flick gesture may be used for various reasons including but not limited to scrolling horizontally or vertically through menus or pages. In some embodiments the touchscreen supports a pinch and stretch gesture in which a user makes a pinching motion with two fingers e.g. thumb and forefinger on the touchscreen or moves the two fingers apart. The pinch and stretch gesture may be used for various reasons including but not limited to zooming gradually in or out of a website map or picture.

Although the above gestures have been described with reference to the use one or more fingers for performing the gestures other appendages such as toes or objects such as styluses may be used to interact with the touchscreen . As such the above gestures should be understood as being illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

The data I O interface component is configured to facilitate input of data to the computing device and output of data from the computing device. In some embodiments the data I O interface component includes a connector configured to provide wired connectivity between the computing device and a computer system for example for synchronization operation purposes. The connector may be a proprietary connector or a standardized connector such as USB micro USB mini USB or the like. In some embodiments the connector is a dock connector for docking the computing device with another device such as a docking station audio device e.g. a digital music player or video device.

The audio I O interface component is configured to provide audio input and or output capabilities to the computing device. In some embodiments the audio I O interface component includes a microphone configured to collect audio signals. In some embodiments the audio I O interface component includes a headphone jack configured to provide connectivity for headphones or other external speakers. In some embodiments the audio interface component includes a speaker for the output of audio signals. In some embodiments the audio I O interface component includes an optical audio cable out.

The video I O interface component is configured to provide video input and or output capabilities to the computing device. In some embodiments the video I O interface component includes a video connector configured to receive video as input from another device e.g. a video media player such as a DVD or BLURAY player or send video as output to another device e.g. a monitor a television or some other external display . In some embodiments the video I O interface component includes a High Definition Multimedia Interface HDMI mini HDMI micro HDMI DisplayPort or proprietary connector to input output video content. In some embodiments the video I O interface component or portions thereof is combined with the audio I O interface component or portions thereof.

The camera can be configured to capture still images and or video. The camera may utilize a charge coupled device CCD or a complementary metal oxide semiconductor CMOS image sensor to capture images. In some embodiments the camera includes a flash to aid in taking pictures in low light environments. Settings for the camera may be implemented as hardware or software buttons.

Although not illustrated one or more hardware buttons may also be included in the computing device architecture . The hardware buttons may be used for controlling some operational aspect of the computing device. The hardware buttons may be dedicated buttons or multi use buttons. The hardware buttons may be mechanical or sensor based.

The illustrated power components include one or more batteries which can be connected to a battery gauge . The batteries may be rechargeable or disposable. Rechargeable battery types include but are not limited to lithium polymer lithium ion nickel cadmium and nickel metal hydride. Each of the batteries may be made of one or more cells.

The battery gauge can be configured to measure battery parameters such as current voltage and temperature. In some embodiments the battery gauge is configured to measure the effect of a battery s discharge rate temperature age and other factors to predict remaining life within a certain percentage of error. In some embodiments the battery gauge provides measurements to an application program that is configured to utilize the measurements to present useful power management data to a user. Power management data may include one or more of a percentage of battery used a percentage of battery remaining a battery condition a remaining time a remaining capacity e.g. in watt hours a current draw and a voltage.

The power components may also include a power connector which may be combined with one or more of the aforementioned I O components . The power components may interface with an external power system or charging equipment via a power I O component .

Based on the foregoing it should be appreciated that technologies for transforming data into consumable content have been disclosed herein. Although the subject matter presented herein has been described in language specific to computer structural features methodological and transformative acts specific computing machinery and computer readable media it is to be understood that the invention defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features acts or media described herein. Rather the specific features acts and mediums are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

The subject matter described above is provided by way of illustration only and should not be construed as limiting. Various modifications and changes may be made to the subject matter described herein without following the example embodiments and applications illustrated and described and without departing from the true spirit and scope of the present invention which is set forth in the following claims.

