---

title: Uplink power control signaling with carrier aggregation
abstract: Technology for providing uplink power control signaling for semi-persistent scheduling with carrier aggregation is disclosed. One method comprises receiving a transmitter power control (TPC) carrier aggregation (CA) physical downlink control channel (PDCCH) configuration information element (IE) identifying a location of information to adjust an uplink power control of a selected component carrier of the UE using semi-persistent scheduling. The TPC-CA-PDCCH configuration IE includes a carrier index value for the selected component carrier of the UE to allow a power level of the selected component carrier to be individually adjusted. A power level of a physical uplink shared channel and/or a physical uplink control channel can be adjusted for the selected component carrier.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09635610&OS=09635610&RS=09635610
owner: Intel Corporation
number: 09635610
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120411
---
The use of wireless communication devices continues to become more ubiquitous in modern societies. The substantial increase in the use of wireless devices is driven in part by the devices increasing abilities. While wireless devices were once used only to communicate voice and text their ability to display audiovisual presentations has driven the need to be able to transmit and receive pictures information related to games television movies and so forth.

One way of increasing the amount of data that can be communicated is through the use of carrier aggregation. Carriers are signals in permitted frequency domains onto which information is placed. The amount of information that can be placed on a carrier is determined by the carrier s bandwidth. The permitted frequency domains are often limited in bandwidth especially when there are a large number of users that are simultaneously using the bandwidth in the permitted frequency domains.

Carrier aggregation enables multiple carrier signals to be simultaneously communicated between a user s wireless device and a base station. Multiple different carriers can be used. In some instances the carriers may be from different permitted frequency domains. This provides a broader choice to the wireless devices enabling more bandwidth to be obtained. The greater bandwidth can be used to communicate bandwidth intensive operations such as streaming video or large data files.

Various wireless standards have been drafted that enables wireless communication devices to be interoperable. However the wireless standards are not complete in defining the information that needs to be exchanged between wireless devices and base stations to allow carrier aggregation to take place in a mobile wireless communication system.

Reference will now be made to the exemplary embodiments illustrated and specific language will be used herein to describe the same. It will nevertheless be understood that no limitation of the scope of the invention is thereby intended.

Before the present invention is disclosed and described it is to be understood that this invention is not limited to the particular structures process steps or materials disclosed herein but is extended to equivalents thereof as would be recognized by those ordinarily skilled in the relevant arts. It should also be understood that terminology employed herein is used for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting.

As used herein the term substantially refers to the complete or nearly complete extent or degree of an action characteristic property state structure item or result. For example an object that is substantially enclosed would mean that the object is either completely enclosed or nearly completely enclosed. The exact allowable degree of deviation from absolute completeness may in some cases depend on the specific context. However generally speaking the nearness of completion will be so as to have the same overall result as if absolute and total completion were obtained. The use of substantially is equally applicable when used in a negative connotation to refer to the complete or near complete lack of an action characteristic property state structure item or result.

An initial overview of technology embodiments is provided below and then specific technology embodiments are described in further detail later. This initial summary is intended to aid readers in understanding the technology more quickly but is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the technology nor is it intended to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter. The following definitions are provided for clarity of the overview and embodiments described below.

Uplink transmission power is one of the key methods to optimize uplink performance in a wireless communication system. In a cellular type of wireless network an uplink involves transmitting from a wireless device to a network node i.e. base station . The ability to efficiently transmit data results in a longer battery life and the ability to transmit and receive more data for portable devices.

In the third generation partnership project 3GPP long term evolution LTE Rel. 10 Mar. 23 2011 the transmission power is specified based on a power control algorithm referred to as transmitter power control TPC . A network node is referred to as an evolved universal terrestrial radio access network E UTRAN NodeB eNB or eNodeB . A wireless device is referred to as user equipment UE .

The TPC contains two parts an open loop power control and close loop power control. The open loop power control factor can be used to set the basic operating point for TPC. The open loop power control factor can be sent by an eNodeB to the using a medium access control MAC protocol sublayer communication to the UE. The closed loop power factor does finer and much quicker adjustments. The closed loop power factor can be sent through a control channel such as the physical downlink control channel PDCCH which includes a field for TPC adjustments. In some situations there is no uplink scheduling on the control channel or no uplink grant. When this occurs then an alternative medium exists to communicate the TPC adjustments from the eNodeB to the UE.

Specifically downlink control information DCI carried on the PDCCH includes two specific formats format and A to carry the TPC information to allow the transmit power from the UE to be frequently adjusted. DCI formats and A are defined in 3GPP LTE Technical Specification TS 36.212 Ver. 10 which is publicly available.

In some embodiments TPC can be used to adjust power on a subframe by subframe basis to ensure that a substantially minimum necessary power is used to transmit the data in each subframe thereby optimizing the power usage and maximizing the length of battery usage between charges. At each subframe transmit power can be incremented or decremented based on a TPC value communicated from the eNodeB to the UE via the PDCCH.

Semi persistent scheduling SPS is a feature that significantly reduces control channel overhead for applications that require persistent radio resource allocations such as voice over internet protocol VOIP . In the LTE specification both the downlink and uplink are fully scheduled since the downlink and uplink traffic channels are dynamically shared channels. To accomplish the dynamic sharing the PDCCH provides access grant information to identify which users should decode data in the physical downlink shared channel PDSCH in each subframe and which users are permitted to transmit on the physical uplink shared channel PUSCH each subframe.

With SPS every downlink or uplink physical resource block PRB allocation is granted via an access grant message on the PDCCH. Many types of applications have large packet sizes meaning that only a few users are scheduled each subframe. However for applications that use persistent allocations of small packets such as VOIP the access grant control channel overhead can be significant.

To reduce the amount of overhead that can occur with applications that use persistent allocations of small packets a persistent physical resource block PRB allocation is introduced in SPS. The UE can expect the persistent PRB allocation on the downlink transmission received at the UE. The UE can also use persistent PRB allocations for uplink transmissions.

The use of SPS can significantly reduce the amount of overhead. However the use of the persistent PRB allocations means that there is often no uplink scheduling on the control channel or no uplink grant. Therefore the TPC information can be carried in DCI format 3 or 3A.

One way of increasing the amount of data that can be communicated is through the use of carrier aggregation. Carriers are signals in permitted frequency domains onto which information is placed. The amount of information that can be placed on a carrier is determined by the carrier s bandwidth. The permitted frequency domains are often limited in bandwidth. The bandwidth limitations become more severe when a large number of users are simultaneously using the bandwidth in the permitted frequency domains.

Carrier aggregation enables multiple carrier signals to be simultaneously communicated between a user s wireless device and a base station. Multiple different carriers can be used. In some instances the carriers may be from different permitted frequency domains. This provides a broader choice to the wireless devices enabling more bandwidth to be obtained. The greater bandwidth can be used to communicate bandwidth intensive operations such as streaming video or large data files.

In one embodiment of carrier aggregation CA in the 3GPP LTE standard component carriers CCs for a Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access Network can be combined together to form a larger bandwidth for the UE as illustrated in . For example the UMTS may have a system bandwidth of 100 MHz in a frequency spectrum with each CC having a 20 MHz bandwidth. Each CC may comprise a plurality of subcarriers . Some UEs may use the entire 100 MHz system bandwidth by aggregating five 20 MHz CCs together to achieve a 100 MHz UE bandwidth .

In another example two UEs and each with a 40 MHz bandwidth capability may each use two 20 MHz CCs together to achieve a 40 MHz UE bandwidth for each UE. In another example each UE and may use a single 20 MHz CC to achieve a 20 MHz UE bandwidth . The CCs at an eNodeB may be aggregated for some UEs while other UEs may use a single CC during the same interval. For example one UE with a 40 MHz bandwidth may be configured while three UEs that each use a single 20 MHz CC are employed in a 100 MHz bandwidth system not shown . Carrier aggregation allows the bandwidth for a UE to be adjusted and adapted by an eNodeB based on the wireless communication system s limitations the UEs capabilities and bandwidth requirements the bandwidth available to the system and or loading of other UEs on the system.

Each UMTS may use a different carrier bandwidth as illustrated in . For example the 3GPP LTE Release 8 Rel 8 carrier bandwidths and Release 10 Rel 10 CC bandwidths can include 1.4 MHz 3 MHz 5 MHz 10 MHz 15 MHz and 20 MHz . The 1.4 MHz CC can include 6 Resource Blocks RBs comprising 72 subcarriers. Each RB can include twelve 15 kHz subcarriers on the frequency axis and 6 or 7 orthogonal frequency division multiplexing OFDM symbols per subcarrier. The 3 MHz CC can include 15 RBs comprising 180 subcarriers. The 5 MHz CC can include 25 RBs comprising 300 subcarriers. The 10 MHz CC can include 50 RBs comprising 600 subcarriers. The 15 MHz CC can include 75 RBs comprising 900 subcarriers. The 20 MHz CC can include 100 RBs comprising 1200 subcarriers. These examples are not intended to be limiting. Carrier aggregation can be accomplished using additional schemes with different bandwidths and different numbers of subcarriers in each CC.

Each eNodeB can have a plurality of different carriers. For instance the eNodeB may have five separate carriers. Each carrier can have a specific bandwidth and center frequency. The carriers may be located in the same frequency band or different frequency bands.

Each available carrier for an eNodeB may be assigned an eNodeB specific carrier index eNB CI by the eNodeB. That is the CI is specific to the eNodeB. If a UE is handed over to another eNodeB a new eNB CI will be assigned that eNodeB. The eNodeB CI can be used for future referencing by the eNodeB.

When a UE that is configured to operate in a manner that is consistent with the 3GPP LTE Rel 8 9 10 procedures is powered on then the UE is typically configured to scan select and attach to one of the available carriers provided by an eNodeB. It can be assumed that all RRC IDLE mode procedures are handled by each UE consistent with the 3GPP LTE Rel 8 9 10 procedures as well.

The carrier selected by the UE for attachment to the eNodeB can be considered the initial and default carrier referred to herein as the Primary Component Carrier PCC . All other carriers used by the eNodeB can be referred to as Secondary Component Carriers SCC . A UE s PCC may be changed for a variety of purposes. For instance the PCC may be changed due to load balancing interference management or other link level preferences. The change can be effected through the use of RRC level carrier configuration updates without using network level signaling. Additional information regarding carrier aggregation can be obtained in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 975 725 filed on Dec. 22 2010 with a docket number P36467.

Currently the 3GPP LTE Rel. 10 specification only supports a single cell for DCI format 3 3A. Thus when SPS is used and TPC information is communicated via DCI format 3 3A only a single component carrier can be used. This currently limits applications such as VOIP which use SPS and TPC to a single component carrier.

To overcome this limitation the DCI format 3 3A can be modified to support the use of additional component carriers. By modifying the DCI format 3 and 3A to support additional component carriers applications that employ SPS can take advantage of the additional bandwidth provided by carrier aggregation.

In one embodiment of the present invention the DCI format 3 3A can be configured to explicitly adjust the power control for each individual UE. Each UE can be notified by the eNodeB through a TPC PDCCH Configuration information element IE about which of the bits contained in the TPC are the power adjustment of the UE. In order to support the power adjustment per component carrier for each UE the TPC PDCCH Config IE can be updated to include the carrier index information for multiple component carriers attached to a UE. In one embodiment each component carrier attached to a UE can be monitored and updated. Alternatively only active component carriers may be monitored.

For example provides one example of a TPC CA PDCCH Config IE that supports all active PCell and SCell combinations for each UE configured to communicate with an eNodeB. The information element is illustrated using Abstract Syntax Notation 1 ASN.1 . ASN.1 is a standardized notation used to describe structures for representing encoding transmitting and decoding data.

In the example of the power control function can be setup or released using the IE. The TPC radio network temporary identifier RNTI is used for sending TPC commands applicable to either the physical uplink control channel PUCCH or the physical uplink shared channel PUSCH . The TPC Index value is either a value of N or M where N represents a two bit power adjustment value described in 3GPP LTE TS 36.212 Section 5.3.3.1.6 and M represents a one bit power adjustment value described in 3GPP LTE TS 36.212 Section 5.3.3.1.7 in the Rel. 10. The parameter TPC Index can be communicated by higher layers and determines the index to the TPC command for a given UE. With the inclusion of the carrier aggregation CA index the index to the TPC command can be for a given component carrier based on the component carrier s carrier index CID value.

In the ASN.1 illustration shows that a CHOICE is to be made based on the TPC CA Index value. In the example information is transmitted on the uplink of the second component carrier in the i 4 subframe. If the second component carrier in the uplink is set for a closed loop power control CLPC with DCI format 3 it is the 2choice and a value of 2 may be sent in the ASN.1 message to identify which CC is set for this power control. If the second CC in the uplink is set for CLPC with format 3A it is the 5choice i.e. three CID indexOfFormat3 variables followed by two CID indexOfFormat3A variables with the second 5in the list representing CC . Accordingly the value of 5 can be set in the ASN.1 message. Similarly for the next subframe i 5 the third component carrier may be selected based on a 3 for DCI format 3 or a 6 for DCI format 3A to identify the third component carrier as the component carrier set for CLPC. The information in the uplink subframes can then include an SPS transmission in the PUSCH.

The use of the explicit method described with respect to provides a flexible means to explicitly adjust the power control of each component carrier for each individual UE. However it also uses additional signaling. In some situations it may be desirable to communicate less information while still providing support for component carriers in the DCI Format 3 and 3A.

Accordingly in another embodiment an implicit method may be used to identify the TPC index for an SCell without modifying the TPC PDCCH Config IE. There are at least three different ways of linking an SCell TPC index to a PCell TPC index.

In a first example all supported SCells are assigned a default index value assignment based on the PCell TPC index value. For example a UE may have a PCell and two SCells. The TPC index value of the PCell is 6 in this example. The TPC index of the first SCell can use a TPC index value of 7. The second SCell can use a TPC index value of 8. The TPC index value may be assigned to the SCells based on their CID from smallest to largest. Alternative assignments may also be used such as largest to smallest or assigning every other TPC index value or an nvalue where in is a positive integer instead of contiguous values. Additional assignment schemes may also be used as can be appreciated.

In a second example that is similar to the first example the PCell can be assigned a default TPC index value following by providing an assignment for all active SCells for a UE. In this case only active SCells are counted for a TPC index. For example a UE may have one PCell and two SCells. The TPC index value for the PCell may be 6. One of the SCells may be active while the other is inactive. In this case the active SCell may have a TPC index value of 7 assigned. When the other SCell moves from an inactive state to an active state the TPC index need can be signaled. If the first SCell is still active the second SCell may be assigned a TPC index value of 8. Alternatively if the first SCell becomes inactive before the second SCell becomes active the second SCell may be assigned a TPC index value of 7. As in the first example the TPC index value may be assigned to the SCells based on their CID from smallest to largest. Alternative assignments may also be used such as largest to smallest or assigning every other TPC index value or an nvalue where in is a positive integer instead of contiguous values. Additional assignment schemes may also be used as can be appreciated.

In a third example the PCell and SCell power adjustments may be bundled together. This provides the simplest process for accounting for multiple component carriers and adjusting their power. In this case all SCells can use the same TPC index value. The same transmit power adjustment as the PCell can be applied to each SCell. However due to different loading and or interference configurations in each component carrier this process may be less effective than the explicit process or the first and second implicit examples.

In another embodiment a method for providing uplink power control signaling of a user equipment UE for semi persistent scheduling with carrier aggregation is disclosed as depicted in the flow chart of . The method comprises the operation of receiving a transmitter power control TPC carrier aggregation CA physical downlink control channel PDCCH configuration information element IE identifying a location of information to adjust an uplink power control of a selected component carrier of the UE using semi persistent scheduling as shown in block . The TPC CA PDCCH configuration IE can include a carrier index value for the selected component carrier of the UE to allow a power level of the selected component carrier to be individually adjusted. The method further comprises adjusting a power level of at least one of a physical uplink shared channel PUSCH and a physical uplink control channel PUCCH for the selected component carrier as shown in block .

Various techniques or certain aspects or portions thereof may take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives non transitory computer readable storage medium or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the various techniques. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device may include a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. The volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements may be a RAM EPROM flash drive optical drive magnetic hard drive or other medium for storing electronic data. The base station and mobile device may also include a transceiver module a counter module a processing module and or a clock module or timer module. One or more programs that may implement or utilize the various techniques described herein may use an application programming interface API reusable controls and the like. Such programs may be implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s may be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and combined with hardware implementations.

It should be understood that many of the functional units described in this specification have been labeled as modules in order to more particularly emphasize their implementation independence. For example a module may be implemented as a hardware circuit comprising custom VLSI circuits or gate arrays off the shelf semiconductors such as logic chips transistors or other discrete components. A module may also be implemented in programmable hardware devices such as field programmable gate arrays programmable array logic programmable logic devices or the like.

Modules may also be implemented in software for execution by various types of processors. An identified module of executable code may for instance comprise one or more physical or logical blocks of computer instructions which may for instance be organized as an object procedure or function. Nevertheless the executables of an identified module need not be physically located together but may comprise disparate instructions stored in different locations which when joined logically together comprise the module and achieve the stated purpose for the module.

Indeed a module of executable code may be a single instruction or many instructions and may even be distributed over several different code segments among different programs and across several memory devices. Similarly operational data may be identified and illustrated herein within modules and may be embodied in any suitable form and organized within any suitable type of data structure. The operational data may be collected as a single data set or may be distributed over different locations including over different storage devices and may exist at least partially merely as electronic signals on a system or network. The modules may be passive or active including agents operable to perform desired functions.

Reference throughout this specification to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. Thus appearances of the phrases in one embodiment or in an embodiment in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

As used herein a plurality of items structural elements compositional elements and or materials may be presented in a common list for convenience. However these lists should be construed as though each member of the list is individually identified as a separate and unique member. Thus no individual member of such list should be construed as a de facto equivalent of any other member of the same list solely based on their presentation in a common group without indications to the contrary. In addition various embodiments and example of the present invention may be referred to herein along with alternatives for the various components thereof. It is understood that such embodiments examples and alternatives are not to be construed as defacto equivalents of one another but are to be considered as separate and autonomous representations of the present invention.

Furthermore the described features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments. In the following description numerous specific details are provided such as examples of materials fasteners sizes lengths widths shapes etc. to provide a thorough understanding of embodiments of the invention. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize however that the invention can be practiced without one or more of the specific details or with other methods components materials etc. In other instances well known structures materials or operations are not shown or described in detail to avoid obscuring aspects of the invention.

While the forgoing examples are illustrative of the principles of the present invention in one or more particular applications it will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that numerous modifications in form usage and details of implementation can be made without the exercise of inventive faculty and without departing from the principles and concepts of the invention. Accordingly it is not intended that the invention be limited except as by the claims set forth below.

