---

title: Visualization information bar
abstract: Among other things, one or more techniques and/or systems are provided for maintaining an information bar associated with a visualization. The visualization may correspond to an interface configured to display one or more entities (e.g., a map interface may display location entities, such as coffee shops, and/or direction entities, such as portions of a route, within a map). Responsive to the visualization being populated, the information bar may be populated with one or more information panels corresponding to the one or more entities. For example, a first information panel may comprise coffee specials and hours of operation for a first coffee shop entity populated within the visualization. Responsive to a selection of an entity within the visualization, a corresponding information panel may (automatically) be scrolled to and/or highlighted within the information bar. In this way, the information bar may display information panels corresponding to entities of the visualization.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09557906&OS=09557906&RS=09557906
owner: Microsoft Technology Licensing, LLC
number: 09557906
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120221
---
Many applications display information through various user interfaces. In one example a map application may display a map within an interactive map interface search functionality within a search interface and or map directions within a map directions interface. Such interfaces may be specific to a single task and or context of the map e.g. the map directions interface may be configured to merely display map directions but not other content such as one or more locations identified on the map and or error messages relating to a task . Accordingly it may be advantageous to provide a user interface that is readable scalable and or consumable for various scenarios.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key factors or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Among other things one or more systems and or techniques for maintaining an information bar associated with a visualization are provided herein. A visualization may correspond to a variety of interfaces configured to display entities e.g. an image gallery interface may display images a search result interface may display search results a map interface may display directions and or locations etc. and or a variety of form factors e.g. a mobile device a smart phone a tablet device a desktop device a touch enabled device etc. . An information bar may correspond to an interface such as a horizontal scrollable bar which may be displayed across a first horizontal portion of the visualization e.g. the information bar may comprise a user interface container a user interface surface and or other user interface elements configured to display and or facilitate navigation of informal informational panels comprising content associated with the visualization . The information bar may be populated with one or more information panels associated with the visualization. For example an information panel may comprise content associated with an entity populated within the visualization e.g. responsive to a map visualization being populated with one or more pizza shop entities content associated with a first pizza shop entity may be populated within a first information panel of the information bar .

The information bar may be contextually aware of the visualization e.g. particular entities populated within the visualization and or tasks associated with the visualization e.g. a search task for coffee shops a directions task for driving directions an explore task for recently viewed businesses etc. . In one example responsive to the visualization being populated with one or more location entities e.g. coffee shop entities corresponding to a search task for coffee shops near current location submitted by a user within an input bar one or more information panels corresponding to respective location entities may be populated within the information bar e.g. a first information panel may comprise an image and hours of operation for a first coffee shop entity a second information panel may comprise a summary and coffee specials for a second coffee shop entity etc. . In another example responsive to the visualization being populated with one or more direction entities e.g. direction entities representing portions of a route from a starting location to a destination location one or more information panels corresponding to respective direction entities may be populated within the information bar e.g. a first information panel may comprise an image and textual description of a first portion of the route a second information panel may comprise an image and textual description of a second portion of the route etc. . In another example responsive to an error occurring e.g. a search for Learning Tower of Pizza may result in no entities because the search may be spelled incorrectly an error message may be populated within the information bar. In this way the information bar may be populated with information panels that may be contextually relevant to the visualization and or tasks associated with the visualization.

The information bar may be updated based upon a task associated with the visualization. In one example the information bar may be populated with information panels comprising content associated with local pizza shop entities populated within a map visualization. Responsive to a user selecting a pizza shop entity within the map visualization a corresponding information panel within the information bar may be highlighted. It may be appreciated that if the highlighted information panel is not visible within the information bar then the information bar may be scrolled e.g. automatically programmatically etc. to the highlighted information panel to visually present the highlighted information panel. In another example responsive to a user selecting an information panel within the information bar the information panel may be populated with additional details associated with a corresponding entity e.g. responsive to a user selecting an information panel associated with a first pizza shop entity user reviews of the first pizza shop entity may be populated within the information panel and or the corresponding entity may be highlighted within the visualization e.g. a pin flag etc. on a map may change color shape size etc. .

The information bar may be configured to allow a user to explore and or navigate between various states of the information bar e.g. a first state corresponding to a set of pizza shop information panels a second state corresponding to a set of coffee shop information panels etc. . In one example a back command may be implemented for the information bar. For example the information bar may be populated with pizza shop information panels based upon the visualization being populated with one or more pizza shop entities e.g. a user may have submitted a search task for pizza shops . A state of the information bar may be saved as a saved state. The saved state may correspond to the pizza shop information panels. Subsequently the information bar may be populated with one or more coffee shop information panels based upon the visualization being populated with one or more coffee shop entities e.g. the user may have submitted a subsequent search task for coffee shops . Upon an invocation of the back command e.g. which may indicate that the user may desire to view the previously displayed pizza shop information panels as opposed to the currently displayed coffee shop information panels the information bar may be repopulated with the pizza shop information panels using the saved state. It may be appreciated that a variety of other features may be implemented for the information bar e.g. the information bar may be collapsed the information bar may be displayed in place of a hidden input bar e.g. into which query terms may be entered a height of the information bar may be adjusted etc. 

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends the following description and annexed drawings set forth certain illustrative aspects and implementations. These are indicative of but a few of the various ways in which one or more aspects may be employed. Other aspects advantages and novel features of the disclosure will become apparent from the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the annexed drawings.

The claimed subject matter is now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are generally used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the claimed subject matter. It may be evident however that the claimed subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances structures and devices are illustrated in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the claimed subject matter.

A visualization may correspond to a variety of interfaces configured to display entities e.g. an image gallery interface may display images a search result interface may display search results a map interface may display directions and or locations etc. and or a variety of form factors e.g. a mobile device a smart phone a tablet device a desktop device a touch enabled device etc. . An input bar may be associated with the visualization. The input bar may be configured to allow a user to invoke one or more tasks associated with the visualization e.g. a directions task to populate a map visualization with driving directions an image search task to populate an image visualization with images a search result task to populate a search result visualization with search results an explore task to display recently viewed and or favorite business listings etc. . For example a user may input an image search query to invoke an image search task through the input bar. Responsive to the image search query an image visualization may be populated with one or more image entities matching the image search query.

It may be advantageous to provide an additional user interface configured to provide information panels comprising content that is contextually relevant to a particular task and or a state of the visualization. Accordingly one or more systems and or techniques for maintaining an information bar associated with a visualization are provided herein. The information bar may correspond to a user interface such as a horizontal scrollable bar across the visualization. The information bar may be configured to display and or facilitate navigation of information panels comprising content corresponding to entities populated within the visualization tasks associated with the visualization and or error messages associated with the visualization for example. In this way the information bar may display content that is contextually relevant to the visualization.

One embodiment of maintaining an information bar associated with a visualization is illustrated by an exemplary method in . At the method starts. A visualization may correspond to an interface configured to display entities e.g. a map visualization may display location entities such as coffee shops relating to a search task and or direction entities such as portions of a route relating to a directions task . The visualization may be associated with an input bar through which a user may invoke one or more tasks associated with the visualization e.g. the input bar may be presented across a second horizontal portion of the visualization . For example the input bar may allow a user to search for directions within a map visualization e.g. a directions task search for businesses within the map visualization e.g. a search task locate favorite and or previously viewed locations within the map visualization e.g. an explore task etc. The visualization may be associated with an information bar configured to display information panels comprising content that may be contextually relevant to the visualization and or a task associated with the visualization e.g. the information bar may be presented within a first horizontal portion of the visualization which may be adjacent to the second horizontal portion comprising the input bar . One example of an information bar and or an input bar is illustrated within . At the information bar may be presented as a horizontal scrollable bar across the first horizontal portion of the visualization.

In one example the visualization may be populated with one or more entities e.g. a map visualization may be populated with one or more coffee shop entities based upon a search task for coffee shops submitted through the input bar . Responsive to the visualization being populated with the one or more entities the information bar may be populated with one or more information panels corresponding to respective entities populated with the visualization at . For example a first information panel corresponding to a Colleen s Coffee Shop entity may be populated with an image and hours of operation for Colleen s Coffee Shop a second information panel corresponding to a Jack s Coffee and Tea Shop entity may be populated with drink specials and an address for Jack s Coffee and Tea Shop etc. In one example of populating the information bar the one or more information panels may be organized horizontally adjacent to one another within the information bar which may enable horizontal scrolling between information panels e.g. a user may scroll into and or out of view information panels within the information bar using various finger swipe gestures . In this way the information bar may be populated with one or more information panels comprising content associated with the one or more entities populated within the visualization.

It may be appreciated that an information panel may be populated with a variety of information and or content based upon the context of the visualization and or a task associated with the visualization. For example an information panel may be populated with an image text video audio an interactive object a hyperlink a business listing a map a stream of data an error message of a failed task previously viewed content content marked as favorite content and or a plethora of other information.

In one example of presenting the information bar the input bar may be visually hidden to provide additional viewable space for the visualization and or the information bar e.g. the input bar may be hidden in response to the visualization being populated with one or more entities . In this way the information bar may be presented across at least a portion of the second horizontal portion within which the input bar was previously presented. That is the input bar may be visually hidden and the information bar may be move from the first horizontal portion to the horizontal second portion which may allow the visualization to extent into the first horizontal portion e.g. an input bar has been hidden and an information bar have been moved into the prior location of the input bar within . Hiding the input bar e.g. and moving the information bar may allow for a greater portion of the visualization to be displayed.

The information bar may be contextually associated with the visualization and or tasks associated with the visualization. In one example an information panel within the information bar may be highlighted based upon a selection of a corresponding entity within the visualization e.g. responsive to a user selecting the Colleen s Coffee Shop entity within the map visualization an information panel comprising an image and hours of operation for Colleen s Coffee Shop may be highlighted within the information bar . If the highlighted information panel is not visible within the information bar e.g. the highlighted information panel is scrolled outside of the visible area of the information bar then the information bar may be scrolled e.g. automatically programmatically etc. to the highlighted information panel to visually present the highlighted information panel. In another example a user may select an information panel within the visualization. Responsive to the selection of the information panel additional details associated with a corresponding entity may be populated within the information panel and or the corresponding entity may be highlighted within the visualization e.g. responsive to a user selecting the information panel associated with Colleen s Coffee Shop the information panel may be populated with user reviews for Colleen s Coffee Shop and or the Colleen s Coffee Shop entity within the map visualization may be highlighted .

It may be appreciated that a variety of commands may be implemented for the information bar. In one example the information bar may be horizontally scrolled responsive to a horizontal scroll command. For example the information bar may initially display a first set of information panels e.g. a first information panel a second information panel and a third information panel . The information bar may be scrolled e.g. right to left based upon a horizontal scroll command e.g. a finger swipe gesture such that a second set of information panels may be displayed e.g. the third information panel a fourth information panel and a fifth information panel . In another example the information bar may be collapsed e.g. at least a portion of the information bar may be visually hidden responsive to a collapse command. An expand command may be presented which may be invoked to expand the information bar back into view. In another example a height of the information bar may be adjusted based upon a height command and or based upon one or more information panels populated therein e.g. the height of the information bar may be expanded based upon an information panel comprising more information than the information bar may be able to display .

In another example a back command may be implemented based upon a saved state of the information bar. For example a state of the information bar may be saved as the saved state. The saved state may comprise information associated with one or more information panels populated within the information bar e.g. the information bar may comprise a Dan s Pizza Shop information panel a John s Sub Shop information panel and a Sue s Pizza Shop information panel etc. . The one or more information panels within the information bar may be subsequently removed e.g. based upon a new search for Donut Shops and one or more new information panels may be populated within the information bar e.g. a Bill s Donut Shop information panel etc. . The user may invoke a back command e.g. because the user may desire to revisit the pizza shop information panels . Responsive to the back command the one or more new information panels may be removed from the information bar e.g. the donut shop information panels and the information bar may be repopulated with the one or more information panels e.g. the pizza shop information panels saved within the saved state. At the method ends.

The system may comprise an information bar component . The information bar component may be configured to present the information bar as a horizontal scrollable bar across a first portion of the visualization e.g. the first portion may be horizontally adjacent and or below a second portion within which the input bar is presented thus resulting in input bar being presented above the information bar and the visualization being presented below the information bar . It may be appreciated that the input bar and or the information bar may be presented in a variety of configurations with respect to the visualization and or one another e.g. the input bar and or the information bar may be presented below the visualization . The information bar component may be configured to collapse the information bar and or the input bar which may provide additional viewing space for the visualization . In one example the input bar may be collapsed e.g. based upon a completion of a task that resulted in populating the visualization while the information bar may be displayed at a location overlapping the prior location of the input bar . In another example the information bar may be collapsed based upon a collapse command.

The information bar component may be configured to populate the information bar with one or more information panels in response to the visualization being populated with one or more entities e.g. a first information panel corresponding to Shop A entity a second information panel corresponding to Shop B entity a third information panel correspond to Shop C entity etc. . For example a user may invoke the search task to search for shops . Responsive to the search task the visualization may be populated with the Shop A entity the Shop B entity the Shop C entity and or the Shop D entity. In one example the input bar may be collapsed hidden because the user has already invoked the search task which may provide for additional viewing space for the visualization . Accordingly the information bar may be populated with the first information panel comprising content associated with the Shop A entity the second information panel comprising content associated with the Shop B entity the third information panel comprising content associated with the Shop C entity and a fourth information panel not illustrated comprising content associated with the Shop D entity etc.

The information bar component may be configured to scroll to and or highlight an information panel within the information bar in response to a selection of an entity within the visualization . In one example in response to a user selecting the Shop A entity within the visualization the information bar component may highlight the first information panel corresponding to the Shop A entity. In another example in response to the user selecting the Shop D entity within the visualization the information bar component may highlight and scroll into view the fourth information panel corresponding to the Shop D entity.

The information bar component may be configured to populate an information panel with additional details and or highlight a corresponding entity within the visualization based upon a selection of the information panel within the information bar . For example in response to a user selecting the second information panel the information bar component may populate the second information panel with additional details e.g. user reviews a menu food specials etc. relating to the Shop B entity and or may highlight the Shop B entity within the visualization .

The information bar component may be configured to save a state of the information bar as a saved state. The saved state may correspond to the one or more information panels populated within the information bar . The information bar component may be configured to restore the state of the information bar using the saved state e.g. in response to a back command the information bar may be populated with previously displayed information panels saved within the saved state .

Responsive to the visualization being populated with the one or more coffee shop entities the information bar may be populated with one or more information panels corresponding to the coffee shop entities. That is the information bar is populated based upon the search task and or the context of the visualization e.g. the coffee shop entities populated within the visualization . For example the information bar may comprise a first information panel comprising content associated with the Shop A entity a second information panel comprising content associated with the Shop B entity a third information panel comprising content associated with Shop the C entity a fourth information panel scrolled out of view comprising content associated with the Shop D entity. A user may be able to horizontally scroll between the information panels within the information bar e.g. a horizontal finger swipe from right to left may scroll the first information panel out of view and the fourth information panel into view .

The information bar may be updated based upon a current state of the visualization and or a task associated with the visualization . In one example a user may select the Shop A entity within the visualization . Responsive to the selection of the Shop A entity the first information panel may be highlighted. In another example the user may select the Shop D entity within the visualization . Responsive to the selection of the Shop D entity the fourth information panel may be scrolled into view and or highlighted within the visualization . In this way the information bar may display information panels comprising content associated with a context of the visualization and or tasks associated with the visualization .

The information bar may have been populated with one or more information panels based upon the visualization being populated with the one or more coffee shop entities. That is the information bar may have been populated based upon the search task and or the context of the visualization . For example the information bar may comprise a first information panel comprising content associated with a Shop A entity a second information panel comprising content associated with a Shop B entity and or other information panels scrolled out of view corresponding to Shop C entity and or Shop D entity for example.

The visualization and or the information bar may be updated based upon user interaction with an information panel. In one example a user may select the first information panel associated with the Shop A entity . Responsive to the selection additional details e.g. user rating and location information associated with the Shop A entity may be populated within the first information panel and or the Shop A entity may be highlighted within the visualization .

The information bar may facilitate navigation of information panels populated therein. For example a back command may be implemented for the information bar which may allow a user to view a previous state of the information bar . In particular a state of the information bar may be saved as saved state . The saved state may comprise information about the first information panel the second information panel and or other information panels within the information bar . Subsequently the information bar may be populated with one or more new information panels. For example a user may incorrectly invoke a directions task e.g. by inputting an invalid destination location . Responsive to the directions tasks error the information bar may be populated with an information panel comprising error message information. Because the user may desire to abandon the search and or may desire to view the Coffee Shop related information panels again the user may invoke the back command . Responsive to the invocation of the back command the information bar may be re populated with the first information panel the second information panel and or other information panels using the saved state .

Responsive to the visualization being populated with one or more direction entities the information bar may be populated with one or more information panels corresponding to the direction entities. That is the information bar is populated based upon the direction task and or the context of the visualization . For example the information bar may comprise a first information panel comprising content associated with the route portion 1 entity a second information panel comprising content associated with the route portion 2 entity and a third information panel comprising content associated with the route portion 3 entity .

The information bar may have been populated with one or more information panels based upon the visualization being populated with the one or more direction entities. That is the information bar may have been populated based upon the directions task and or the context of the visualization . For example the information bar may comprise a first information panel scrolled out of view comprising content associated with a route portion 1 entity a second information panel comprising content associated with a route portion 2 entity and a third information panel comprising content associated with a route portion 3 entity. A user may be able to horizontally scroll between the information panels within the information bar e.g. a horizontal finger swipe from left to right may scroll the third information panel out of view and the first information panel into view .

The information bar may be updated based upon a current state of the visualization and or a task associated with the visualization . In one example a user may select the route portion 2 entity within the visualization . Responsive to the selection of the route portion 2 entity the second information panel may be highlighted. In another example the user may select the route portion 1 entity within the visualization . Responsive to the selection of the route portion 1 entity the first information panel may be scrolled e.g. automatically programmatically etc. into view and or highlighted within the visualization . In this way the information bar may display information panels and or content associated with a context of the visualization and or tasks associated with the visualization .

The information bar may facilitate navigation of information panels populated therein. For example a back command may be implemented for the information bar which may allow a user to view a previous state of the information bar . In particular a state of the information bar may be saved as saved state . The saved state may comprise information about the first information panel the second information panel the third information panel and or other information panels within the information bar . Subsequently the information bar may be populated with one or more new information panels. For example a user may invoke a search task for national parks which may result in the visualization being populated with one or more national park entities. Responsive to the visualization being populated with the one or more national park entities the information bar may be populated with one or more information panels corresponding to the one or more national park entities. Because the user may desire to view the information panels relating to the driving directions again as opposed to the national park information the user may invoke the back command . Responsive to the invocation of the back command the information bar may be populated with the first information panel the second information panel the third information panel and or other information panels regarding the directions using the saved state .

A collapse command may be associated with the information bar. The collapse command may be invoked to visually hide at least a portion of the information bar which may provide additional visible space for the visualization . An expand command may be displayed in response to the collapse command. Responsive to a user invoking the expand command the information bar may be visually expanded e.g. such that one or more information panels within the information bar may be visible .

Still another embodiment involves a computer readable medium comprising processor executable instructions configured to implement one or more of the techniques presented herein. An exemplary computer readable medium that may be devised in these ways is illustrated in wherein the implementation comprises a computer readable medium e.g. a CD R DVD R or a platter of a hard disk drive on which is encoded computer readable data . This computer readable data in turn comprises a set of computer instructions configured to operate according to one or more of the principles set forth herein. In one such embodiment the processor executable computer instructions may be configured to perform a method such as at least some of the exemplary method of for example. In another such embodiment the processor executable instructions may be configured to implement a system such as at least some of the exemplary system of for example. Many such computer readable media may be devised by those of ordinary skill in the art that are configured to operate in accordance with the techniques presented herein.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

As used in this application the terms component module system interface and the like are generally intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a controller and the controller can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers.

Furthermore the claimed subject matter may be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement the disclosed subject matter. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. Of course those skilled in the art will recognize many modifications may be made to this configuration without departing from the scope or spirit of the claimed subject matter.

Although not required embodiments are described in the general context of computer readable instructions being executed by one or more computing devices. Computer readable instructions may be distributed via computer readable media discussed below . Computer readable instructions may be implemented as program modules such as functions objects Application Programming Interfaces APIs data structures and the like that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Typically the functionality of the computer readable instructions may be combined or distributed as desired in various environments.

In other embodiments device may include additional features and or functionality. For example device may also include additional storage e.g. removable and or non removable including but not limited to magnetic storage optical storage and the like. Such additional storage is illustrated in by storage . In one embodiment computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein may be in storage . Storage may also store other computer readable instructions to implement an operating system an application program and the like. Computer readable instructions may be loaded in memory for execution by processing unit for example.

The term computer readable media as used herein includes computer storage media. Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions or other data. Memory and storage are examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM Digital Versatile Disks DVDs or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by device . Any such computer storage media may be part of device .

Device may also include communication connection s that allows device to communicate with other devices. Communication connection s may include but is not limited to a modem a Network Interface Card NIC an integrated network interface a radio frequency transmitter receiver an infrared port a USB connection or other interfaces for connecting computing device to other computing devices. Communication connection s may include a wired connection or a wireless connection. Communication connection s may transmit and or receive communication media.

The term computer readable media may include communication media. Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal may include a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal.

Device may include input device s such as keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device infrared cameras video input devices and or any other input device. Output device s such as one or more displays speakers printers and or any other output device may also be included in device . Input device s and output device s may be connected to device via a wired connection wireless connection or any combination thereof. In one embodiment an input device or an output device from another computing device may be used as input device s or output device s for computing device .

Components of computing device may be connected by various interconnects such as a bus. Such interconnects may include a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI such as PCI Express a Universal Serial Bus USB firewire IEEE 1394 an optical bus structure and the like. In another embodiment components of computing device may be interconnected by a network. For example memory may be comprised of multiple physical memory units located in different physical locations interconnected by a network.

Those skilled in the art will realize that storage devices utilized to store computer readable instructions may be distributed across a network. For example a computing device accessible via a network may store computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein. Computing device may access computing device and download a part or all of the computer readable instructions for execution. Alternatively computing device may download pieces of the computer readable instructions as needed or some instructions may be executed at computing device and some at computing device .

Various operations of embodiments are provided herein. In one embodiment one or more of the operations described may constitute computer readable instructions stored on one or more computer readable media which if executed by a computing device will cause the computing device to perform the operations described. The order in which some or all of the operations are described should not be construed as to imply that these operations are necessarily order dependent. Alternative ordering will be appreciated by one skilled in the art having the benefit of this description. Further it will be understood that not all operations are necessarily present in each embodiment provided herein.

Moreover the word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as advantageous over other aspects or designs. Rather use of the word exemplary is intended to present concepts in a concrete fashion. As used in this application the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . That is unless specified otherwise or clear from context X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is if X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B then X employs A or B is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims may generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form. Also at least one of A and B and or the like generally means A or B or both A and B.

Also although the disclosure has been shown and described with respect to one or more implementations equivalent alterations and modifications will occur to others skilled in the art based upon a reading and understanding of this specification and the annexed drawings. The disclosure includes all such modifications and alterations and is limited only by the scope of the following claims. In particular regard to the various functions performed by the above described components e.g. elements resources etc. the terms used to describe such components are intended to correspond unless otherwise indicated to any component which performs the specified function of the described component e.g. that is functionally equivalent even though not structurally equivalent to the disclosed structure which performs the function in the herein illustrated exemplary implementations of the disclosure. In addition while a particular feature of the disclosure may have been disclosed with respect to only one of several implementations such feature may be combined with one or more other features of the other implementations as may be desired and advantageous for any given or particular application. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes having has with or variants thereof are used in either the detailed description or the claims such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising. 

