---

title: Use of strobilurin type compounds for combating phytopathogenic fungi resistant to QO inhibitors
abstract: The present invention relates to the use of strobilurine type compounds of formula I and the N-oxides and the salts thereof for combating phytopathogenic fungi containing a mutation in the mitochondrial cytochrome b gene conferring resistance to Qo inhibitors, and to methods for combating such fungi. The invention also relates to novel compounds, processes for preparing these compounds, to compositions comprising at least one such compound, to plant health applications, and to seeds coated with at least one such compound.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09271501&OS=09271501&RS=09271501
owner: BASF SE
number: 09271501
owner_city: Ludwigshafen
owner_country: DE
publication_date: 20121206
---
This application is a National Stage application of International Application No. PCT EP2012 074586 filed Dec. 6 2012 the entire contents of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference. This application also claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 to European Patent Application No. 11195032.5 filed Dec. 21 2011 and to European Patent Application No. 12190109.4 filed Oct. 26 2012 the entire contents of both of which are hereby incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention relates to the use of strobilurine type compounds of formula I and the N oxides and the salts thereof for combating phytopathogenic fungi containing a mutation in the mitochondrial cytochrome b gene conferring resistance to Qo inhibitors and to methods for combating such fungi. The invention also relates to novel compounds processes for preparing these compounds to compositions comprising at least one such compound to plant health applications and to seeds coated with at least one such compound.

Qo inhibitor fungicides often referred to as strobilurin type fungicides Sauter 2007 Chapter 13.2. Strobilurins and other complex III inhibitors. In Kramer W. Schirmer U. Ed. Modern Crop Protection Compounds. Volume 2. Wiley VCH Verlag 457 495 are conventionally used to control a number of fungal pathogens in crops. Qo inhibitors typically work by inhibiting respiration by binding to a ubihydroquinone oxidation center of a cytochrome bccomplex electron transport complex III in mitochondria. Said oxidation center is located on the outer side of the inner mitochrondrial membrane. A prime example of the use of Qo inhibitors includes the use of for example strobilurins on wheat for the control of also known as which is the cause of wheat leaf blotch. Unfortunately widespread use of such Qo inhibitors has resulted in the selection of mutant pathogens which are resistant to such Qo inhibitors Gisi et al. Pest Manag Sci 56 833 841 2000 . Resistance to Qo inhibitors has been detected in several phytopathogenic fungi such as or . Although several resistance mechanisms have been detected meanwhile e.g. Jabs et al. Phytomedizin 31 15 16 2001 Olaya et al. Pestic Sci 54 230 236 1998 the major part of resistance to Qo inhibitors in agricultural uses has been attributed to pathogens containing a single amino acid residue substitution G143A in the cytochrome b gene for their cytochrome bccomplex the target protein of Qo inhibitors. See for example Lucas Pestic Outlook 14 6 268 70 2003 and Fraaije et al. Phytopathol 95 8 933 41 2005 which both are expressly incorporated by reference herein . Thus new methods and compositions are desirable for controlling pathogen induced diseases in crops comprising plants subjected to pathogens that are resistant to Qo inhibitors. Furthermore in many cases in particular at low application rates the fungicidal activity of the known fungicidal strobilurin analogue compounds is unsatisfactory especially in case that a high proportion of the fungal pathogens contain a mutation in the mitochondrial cytochrome b gene conferring resistance to Qo inhibitors. Based on this it was also an object of the present invention to provide compounds having improved activity and or a broader activity spectrum against phytopathogenic harmful fungi.

 Qo inhibitor as used herein includes any substance that is capable of diminishing and or inhibiting respiration by binding to a ubihydroquinone oxidation center of a cytochrome bccomplex in mitochondria. The oxidation center is typically located on the outer side of the inner mitochrondrial membrane.

is known for combating phytopathogenic fungi that are resistant to Qo inhibitors. Qi inhibitors typically work by inhibiting respiration by binding to a ubihydroquinone oxidation center of a cytochrome bcl complex in mitochondria the said oxidation center being located on the inner side of the inner mitochrondrial membrane.

The strobilurin analogue compounds according to the present invention differ from those described in the abovemention publication by the specific formula I and by inhibiting respiration by binding to a ubihydroquinone oxidation center of a cytochrome bcl complex in mitochondria which defines them as Qo inhibitors. Besides the strobilurin analogue specific structural elements R these compounds contain two specific carbon atoms bound by a double bond wherein the groups Rand Rare cis oriented or the Rand Rtogether with the abovementioned two carbon atoms linking them form a phenyl ring if Ris 4 methyl 1 4 dihydro tetrazol 5 on 1 yl.

Furthermore the present invention also relates to methods for combating phytopathogenic fungi containing a mutation in the mitochondrial cytochrome b gene conferring resistance to Qo inhibitors using the abovementioned compounds of formula I.

Certain strobilurin type compounds of formula I wherein Ris 1 methoxycarbonyl 2 methoxy ethen 1 yl defined as R4 2 herein wherein X is O and Ris CF are mentioned in WO 1998 021174 E 2 1 methoxy meth E ylidene 5 4 phenoxy phenoxy 3 trifluoromethyl pent 3 enoic acid methyl ester CAS No. 207852 99 1 E 2 1 methoxy meth E ylidene 5 3 phenoxy phenoxy 3 trifluoromethyl pent 3 enoic acid methyl ester 207853 00 7 E 2 1 methoxy meth E ylidene 4 methyl 5 3 phenoxy phenoxy 3 trifluoromethyl pent 3 enoic acid methyl ester and E 5 5 5 trifluoro 2 1 methoxy meth E ylidene 3 methyl 4 4 phenoxy phenoxymethyl pent 3 enoic acid methyl ester. However it is not mentioned that the strobilurine type compounds inhibit fungal pathogens containing a mutation in the mitochondrial cytochrome b gene conferring resistance to Qo inhibitors. II

Further preparation of the compound 2E 3Z 2 ethylidene 5 phenyl 3 pentenoic acid methyl ester CAS No. 681026 20 0 has been described in J Organomet Chem 689 575 584 2004 .

Further certain strobilurin type compounds wherein Rand Rtogether with the two carbon atoms linking them form a phenyl ring and wherein Ris 1 methyl 1 4 dihydro tetrazole 5 one 4 yl R4 7 are known inter alia from WO 1996 036229 WO 1999 046246 and DE 199 00 571 A1.

The compounds according to the present invention differ from those described in the abovementioned publications that Rand Rdo not form with the two carbon atoms linking them a phenyl ring and that E 2 1 methoxy meth E ylidene 5 4 phenoxy phenoxy 3 trifluoromethyl pent 3 enoic acid methyl ester 207852 99 1 E 2 1 methoxy meth E ylidene 5 3 phenoxy phenoxy 3 trifluoromethyl pent 3 enoic acid methyl ester 207853 00 7 E 2 1 methoxy meth E ylidene 4 methyl 5 3 phenoxy phenoxy 3 trifluoromethyl pent 3 enoic acid methyl ester E 5 5 5 trifluoro 2 1 methoxy meth E ylidene 3 methyl 4 4 phenoxy phenoxymethyl pent 3 enoic acid methyl ester and 2E 3Z 2 ethylidene 5 phenyl 3 pentenoic acid methyl ester CAS No. 681026 20 0 are excluded.

Therefore according to a second aspect the invention provides compounds of formula I which are represented by formula I

The term compounds I refers to compounds of formula I. Likewise this terminology applies to all sub formulae e.g. compounds I.2 refers to compounds of formula I.2 or compounds V refers to compounds of formula V etc.

The compounds I can be obtained by various routes in analogy to prior art processes known e.g. WO 1998 021174 J Organomet Chem 689 575 584 2004 WO 1996 036229 and advantageously by the synthesis shown in the following schemes and in the experimental part of this application.

A suitable method to prepare compounds I is illustrated in scheme 1. It starts with the reduction of an acetylene compound II with a reducing agent like lithium aluminium hydride preferably in the presence of a solvent. Suitable solvents are inert against the reducing agent used and preferably selected from cyclic or aliphatic ethers like dietyl ether tetrahydrofurane THF 1 4 dioxane and methyl tert. butyl ether MTBE . The reaction temperature can be between 40 C. and 100 C. preferably 20 to 60 C. After a reduced intermediate has been formed a tin compound of formula III wherein Alk defines a suitable alkyl residue like methyl ethyl n propyl or n butyl and wherein L is a leaving group such as halogen ethoxy and methoxy in particular methoxy is added. The resulting intermediate IV is a stable compound which can be isolated and purified with the usual methods for example extraction and chromatography .

Compound IV is further reacted with compound V to yield the intermediate VI applying the usual methods for coupling aliphatic alcohols with hydroxyl compounds IV. The Mitsonobu reaction has proven especially useful.

Compound VI is then coupled with compound VII wherein LG is a leaving group preferably being halogen except fluoro or a sulfonyloxy group such as triflate preferably in the presence of a suitable catalyst such as known transition metal catalysts more preferably palladium catalysts wherein the ligand may be trifuryl phoshine triphenyl phosphine tritolyl phosphine or bidentate phosphine ligands. The Copper compounds such as CuIcan be added to improve the reaction. A wide variety of solvents is possible here with THF 1 4 dioxane and amides like dimethylformamide DMF being preferred. The reaction temperatures can be 20 to 150 C. preferably 20 to 120 C.

The resulting compounds I wherein Y is OCH and Ris H can be further modified. For example if Rcontains an ester group VIII can be transformed into a methyl amide by reaction with methyl amine.

Another general method to prepare compounds I is illustrated in scheme 2. The starting materials VIII are either known or can be prepared analogous to known compounds. The Wittig Horner reaction of compounds VIII with compounds IX illustrated here see also Tetrahedron Lett. 1988 29 3361 can be replaced by the Wittig reaction if this results in better yields. These reactions as well as the reaction conditions are well known. A specific problem is the E Z ratio in the newly formed double bond. The desired isomer is usually accompanied by some undesired isomer which has to be removed by purification known in the art e.g. chromatography destillation crystallization etc. .

A route to compounds I wherein Ris of formula R4 4 is illustrated in scheme 3. The compound X can be obtained for example from compound VI by direct reaction with iodine. The iodine in compounds X may be replaced by other suitable leaving groups for example by bromine chlorine or triflate. The sodium atom in the salt VII can be replaced by other suitable metal atoms for example potassium lithium magnesium calcium etc. The coupling reaction of X and XI is performed preferably in the presence of a transition metal catalyst being preferably copper in the presence of a nitrogen containing ligand system see e.g. Tetrahedron Lett 2008 49 26 4196 4199 Org. Lett. 2004 6 11 1809 1812 .

If individual compounds I cannot be obtained by the routes described above they can be prepared by derivatization of other compounds I.

If the synthesis yields mixtures of isomers in the case of oximes a separation is generally not necessarily required since in some cases the individual isomers can be interconverted during work up for use or during application e.g. under the action of light acids or bases . Such conversions may also take place after use e.g. in the treatment of plants in the treated plant or in the harmful fungus to be controlled.

In the definitions of the variables given above collective terms are used which are generally representative for the substituents in question. The term C C indicates the number of carbon atoms possible in each case in the substituent or substituent moiety in question.

The term C C alkyl refers to a straight chained or branched saturated hydrocarbon group having 1 to 6 carbon atoms e.g. methyl ethyl propyl 1 methylethyl butyl 1 methylpropyl 2 methylpropyl isobutyl 1 1 dimethylethyl pentyl 1 methylbutyl 2 methylbutyl 3 methylbutyl 2 2 dimethylpropyl 1 ethylpropyl 1 1 dimethylpropyl 1 2 dimethylpropyl hexyl 1 methylpentyl 2 methylpentyl 3 methylpentyl 4 methylpentyl 1 1 dimethylbutyl 1 2 dimethylbutyl 1 3 dimethylbutyl 2 2 dimethylbutyl 2 3 dimethylbutyl 3 3 dimethylbutyl 1 ethylbutyl 2 ethylbutyl 1 1 2 trimethylpropyl 1 2 2 trimethylpropyl 1 ethyl 1 methylpropyl and 1 ethyl 2 methylpropyl. Likewise the term C C alkyl refers to a straight chained or branched alkyl group having 1 to 4 carbon atoms.

The term C C haloalkyl refers to a straight chained or branched alkyl group having 1 to 4 carbon atoms as defined above wherein some or all of the hydrogen atoms in these groups may be replaced by halogen atoms as mentioned above for example chloromethyl bromomethyl dichloromethyl trichloromethyl fluoromethyl difluoromethyl trifluoromethyl chlorofluoromethyl dichlorofluoromethyl chlorodifluoromethyl 1 chloroethyl 1 bromoethyl 1 fluoroethyl 2 fluoroethyl 2 2 difluoroethyl 2 2 2 trifluoroethyl 2 chloro 2 fluoroethyl 2 chloro 2 2 difluoroethyl 2 2 dichloro 2 fluoroethyl 2 2 2 trichloroethyl and pentafluoroethyl 2 fluoropropyl 3 fluoropropyl 2 2 difluoropropyl 2 3 difluoropropyl 2 chloropropyl 3 chloropropyl 2 3 dichloropropyl 2 bromopropyl 3 bromopropyl 3 3 3 trifluoropropyl 3 3 3 trichloropropyl CH CF CF CF CF CF 1 fluoromethyl 2 fluoroethyl 1 chloromethyl 2 chloroethyl 1 bromomethyl 2 bromoethyl 4 fluorobutyl 4 chlorobutyl 4 bromobutyl or nonafluorobutyl. Likewise the term C C haloalkyl refers to a straight chained or branched alkyl group having 1 to 6 carbon atoms.

The term C C alkoxy refers to a straight chain or branched alkyl group having 1 to 6 carbon atoms which is bonded via an oxygen at any position in the alkyl group e.g. OCH OCHCH O CH CH 1 methylethoxy O CH CH 1 methylpropoxy 2 methylpropoxy or 1 1 dimethylethoxy O CH CHor O CH CH. Likewise the term C C alkoxy refers to a straight chain or branched alkyl group having 1 to 4 carbon atoms which is bonded via an oxygen at any position in the alkyl group.

The term C C haloalkoxy refers to a C C alkoxy group as defined above wherein some or all of the hydrogen atoms may be replaced by halogen atoms as mentioned above for example OCHF OCHF OCF OCHCl OCHCl OCCl chlorofluoromethoxy dichlorofluoromethoxy chlorodifluoromethoxy 2 fluoroethoxy 2 chloroethoxy 2 bromoethoxy 2 iodoethoxy 2 2 difluoroethoxy 2 2 2 trifluoroethoxy 2 chloro 2 fluoroethoxy 2 chloro 2 2 difluoroethoxy 2 2 dichloro 2 fluoroethoxy 2 2 2 trichloroethoxy OCF 2 fluoropropoxy 3 fluoropropoxy 2 2 difluoropropoxy 2 3 difluoropropoxy 2 chloropropoxy 3 chloropropoxy 2 3 dichloropropoxy 2 bromopropoxy 3 bromopropoxy 3 3 3 trifluoropropoxy 3 3 3 trichloropropoxy OCH CF OCF CF 1 CHF 2 fluoroethoxy 1 CHCl 2 chloroethoxy 1 CHBr 2 bromoethoxy 4 fluorobutoxy 4 chlorobutoxy 4 bromobutoxy or nonafluorobutoxy. Likewise the term C C haloalkoxy refers to a C C alkoxy group as defined above wherein some or all of the hydrogen atoms may be replaced by halogen atoms as mentioned above.

The term C C alkoxy C C alkyl refers to alkyl having 1 to 4 carbon atoms wherein one hydrogen atom of the alkyl radical is replaced by a C C alkoxy group. Likewise the term C C alkoxy C C alkyl refers to alkyl having 1 to 6 carbon atoms wherein one hydrogen atom of the alkyl radical is replaced by a C C alkoxy group.

The term C C alkylamino refers to an amino radical carrying one C C alkyl group as substituent e.g. methylamino ethylamino propylamino 1 methylethylamino butylamino 1 methylpropylamino 2 methylpropylamino 1 1 dimethylethylamino and the like. Likewise the term C C alkylamino refers to an amino radical carrying one C C alkyl group as substituent.

The term di C C alkyl amino refers to an amino radical carrying two identical or different C C alkyl groups as substituents e.g. dimethylamino diethylamino di n propylamino diisopropylamino N ethyl N methylamino N n propyl N methylamino N isopropyl N methylamino N n butyl N methylamino N 2 butyl N methylamino N isobutyl N methylamino and the like. Likewise the term di C C alkyl amino refers to an amino radical carrying two identical or different C C alkyl groups as substituents.

The term C C alkoxyimino refers to a divalent imino radical C C alkyl O N carrying one C C alkoxy group as substituent e.g. methylimino ethylimino propylimino 1 methylethylimino butylimino 1 methylpropylimino 2 methylpropylimino 1 1 dimethylethylimino and the like.

The term C C alkoxyimino C C alkyl refers to alkyl having 1 to 4 carbon atoms as defined above wherein two hydrogen atoms of one carbon atom of the alkyl radical are replaced by a divalent C C alkoxyimino radical C C alkyl O N as defined above.

The term C C alkenyloxyimino C C alkyl refers to alkyl having 1 to 4 carbon atoms as defined above wherein two hydrogen atoms of one carbon atom of the alkyl radical are replaced by a divalent C C alkenyloxyimino radical C C alkenyl O N .

The term C C alkynyloxyimino C C alkyl refers to alkyl having 1 to 4 carbon atoms as defined above wherein two hydrogen atoms of one carbon atom of the alkyl radical are replaced by a divalent C C alkynyloxyimino radical C C alkynyl O N .

The term C C alkylcarbonyl refers to a C C alkyl radical which is attached via a carbonyl group. The term C C alkoxy carbonyl refers to a C C alkoxy radical which is attached via a carbonyl group.

The term C C alkylaminocarbonyl refers to a C C alkylamino radical which is attached via a carbonyl group. Likewise the term di C C alkyl aminocarbonyl refers to a di C C alkylamino radical which is attached via a carbonyl group.

The term C C alkenyl refers to a straight chain or branched unsaturated hydrocarbon radical having 2 to 4 carbon atoms and a double bond in any position e.g. ethenyl 1 propenyl 2 propenyl allyl 1 methylethenyl 1 butenyl 2 butenyl 3 butenyl 1 methyl 1 propenyl 2 methyl 1 propenyl 1 methyl 2 propenyl 2 methyl 2 propenyl. Likewise the term C C alkenyl refers to a straight chain or branched unsaturated hydrocarbon radical having 2 to 6 carbon atoms and a double bond in any position.

The term C C alkynyl refers to a straight chain or branched unsaturated hydrocarbon radical having 2 to 4 carbon atoms and containing at least one triple bond such as ethynyl 1 propynyl 2 propynyl 1 butynyl 2 butynyl 3 butynyl 1 methyl 2 propynyl. Likewise the term C C alkynyl refers to a straight chain or branched unsaturated hydrocarbon radical having 2 to 6 carbon atoms and at least one triple bond.

The term C C cycloalkyl refers to monocyclic bicyclic saturated hydrocarbon radicals having 3 to 6 carbon ring members such as cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclopentyl or cyclohexyl.

Likewise the term C C cycloalkenyl refers to unsaturated hydrocarbon radicals having 3 to 6 carbon ring members and a double bond in any position such as cyclopropenyl cyclobutenyl cyclopentenyl or cyclohexenyl.

The term C C cycloalkyl C C alkyl refers to alkyl having 1 to 4 carbon atoms as defined above wherein one hydrogen atom of the alkyl radical is replaced by a cycloalkyl radical having 3 to 6 carbon atoms.

The term phenyl C C alkyl refers to alkyl having 1 to 4 carbon atoms as defined above wherein one hydrogen atom of the alkyl radical is replaced by a phenyl radical.

Agriculturally acceptable salts of compounds I encompass especially the salts of those cations or the acid addition salts of those acids whose cations and anions respectively have no adverse effect on the fungicidal action of the compounds I. Suitable cations are thus in particular the ions of the alkali metals preferably sodium and potassium of the alkaline earth metals preferably calcium magnesium and barium of the transition metals preferably manganese copper zinc and iron and also the ammonium ion which if desired may carry one to four C C alkyl substituents and or one phenyl or benzyl substituent preferably diisopropylammonium tetramethylammonium tetrabutylammonium trimethylbenzylammonium furthermore phosphonium ions sulfonium ions preferably tri C C alkyl sulfonium and sulfoxonium ions preferably tri C C alkyl sulfoxonium. Anions of useful acid addition salts are primarily chloride bromide fluoride hydrogensulfate sulfate dihydrogenphosphate hydrogenphosphate phosphate nitrate bicarbonate carbonate hexafluorosilicate hexafluorophosphate benzoate and the anions of C C alkanoic acids preferably formate acetate propionate and butyrate. They can be formed by reacting a compound of formula I with an acid of the corresponding anion preferably of hydrochloric acid hydrobromic acid sulfuric acid phosphoric acid or nitric acid.

The compounds of formula I can be present in atropisomers arising from restricted rotation about a single bond of asymmetric groups. They also form part of the subject matter of the present invention.

Depending on the substitution pattern the compounds of formula I and their N oxides may have one or more centers of chirality in which case they are present as pure enantiomers or pure diastereomers or as enantiomer or diastereomer mixtures. Both the pure enantiomers or diastereomers and their mixtures are subject matter of the present invention.

In respect of the variables the embodiments of the intermediates correspond to the embodiments of the compounds I.

Preference is given to those compounds I and where applicable also to compounds of all sub formulae provided herein e.g. formulae I.1 and I.2 and to the intermediates such as compounds II III IV and V wherein the substituents and variables such as k R R R R R R X Y Z R R R RR Rand R have independently of each other or more preferably in combination any possible combination of 2 or more substituents as defined herein the following meanings 

Preference is also given to the uses methods mixtures and compositions wherein the definitions such as phytopathogenic fungi treatments crops compounds II further active ingredients solvents solid carriers have independently of each other or more preferably in combination the following meanings and even more preferably in combination any possible combination of 2 or more definitions as provided herein with the preferred meanings of compounds I herein 

According to one embodiment of the invention the invention also relates to a method for combating phytopathogenic fungi containing a mutation in the mitochondrial cytochrome b gene conferring resistance to Qo inhibitors comprising treating the phytopathogenic fungi containing a mutation in the mitochondrial cytochrome b gene conferring resistance to Qo inhibitors or the materials plants the soil or seeds that are at risk of being diseased from phytopathogenic fungi containing a mutation in the mitochondrial cytochrome b gene conferring resistance to Qo inhibitors with an effective amount of at least one compound I or a composition comprising it thereof.

The term phytopathogenic fungi containing a mutation in the mitochondrial cytochrome b gene conferring resistance to Qo inhibitors ist be understood that at least 10 of the fungal isolates to be controlled contain a mutation in the mitochondrial cytochrome b gene conferring resistance to Qo inhibitors more preferably at least 30 even more preferably at least 50 and most preferably at least 75 of the fungi in particular between 90 and 100 .

It has been observed under field conditions that populations of phytopathogenic fungi apparently consisting of non resistant strains can readily develop resistance. The compounds can be applied under such conditions too in order to prevent the formation of resistance and the spread of resistant strains altogether. In this regard it is useful that they have strong activity against non resistant phytopathogenic fungi also.

According to another embodiment the method for combating phytopathogenic fungi comprises a identifying the phytopathogenic fungi containing a mutation in the mitochondrial cytochrome b gene conferring resistance to Qo inhibitors or the materials plants the soil or seeds that are at risk of being diseased from phytopathogenic fungi as defined herein and b treating said fungi or the materials plants the soil or seeds with an effective amount of at least one compound I or a composition comprising it thereof.

According to another embodiment of the invention the invention also relates to a method for combating phytopathogenic fungi containing a mutation in the mitochondrial cytochrome b gene conferring resistance to Qo inhibitors comprising treating the phytopathogenic fungi whereof at least 10 contain a mutation in the mitochondrial cytochrome b gene conferring resistance to Qo inhibitors or the materials plants the soil or seeds that are at risk of being diseased from phytopathogenic fungi containing a mutation in the mitochondrial cytochrome b gene conferring resistance to Qo inhibitors with an effective amount of at least one compound I or a composition comprising it thereof more preferably at least 30 even more preferably at least 50 and most preferably at least 75 of the fungi contain a mutation in the mitochondrial cytochrome b gene conferring resistance to Qo inhibitors.

According to one embodiment of the use and the method for combating phytopathogenic fungi wherein the mutation in the mitochondrial cytochrome b gene of the phytopathogenic fungi is G143A.

According to another embodiment the phytopathogenic fungi are selected from the group consisting of basidomycetes ascomycetes and oomycetes.

According to a further embodiment the phytopathogenic fungi are selected from the group consisting of also known as also known as and in particular

One embodiment of the invention relates to compounds I wherein Ris halogen C C alkyl C C alkoxy C C alkenyl C C alkenyloxy C C alkynyl C C cycloalkyl or C C cycloalkyl C C alkyl wherein the aliphatic moieties of Rmay carry 1 2 3 or up to the maximum number of identical or different groups Rwhich independently of one another are selected from halogen CN nitro C C alkyl C C alkoxy C C haloalkyl and C C haloalkoxy more preferably Ris halogen C C alkyl C C haloalkyl C C alkoxy C C alkoxy C C alkyl or C C haloalkoxy C C alkyl even more preferably Ris halogen C C alkyl C C chloroalkyl C C alkoxy C C alkoxy C C alkyl or C C haloalkoxy C C alkyl in particular C C alkyl.

According to another embodiment if Ris 1 methoxycarbonyl 2 methoxy ethen 1 yl R4 2 wherein X is O Rcannot be CF.

According to a further embodiment Ris hydrogen halogen C C alkyl C C haloalkyl C C alkoxy C C alkoxy C C alkyl or C C haloalkoxy C C alkyl more preferably Ris hydrogen halogen C C alkyl C C alkoxy or C C alkoxy C C alkyl even more preferably Ris hydrogen C C alkyl or C C alkoxy in particular hydrogen.

According to a further embodiment Ris halogen C C alkyl C C alkoxy C C alkenyl C C alkenyloxy C C alkynyl C C cycloalkyl or C C cycloalkyl C C alkyl wherein the aliphatic moieties of Rmay carry 1 2 3 or up to the maximum number of identical or different groups Rwhich independently of one another are selected from halogen CN nitro C C alkyl C C alkoxy C C haloalkyl and C C haloalkoxy.

According to a further embodiment Y is a divalent group selected from OCH CH CHCH C CH N O CH O N C CH C CH N O CH and C N O CH C CH N O CH preferably OCH CHCH C CH N O CH O N C CH C CH N O CH or C N O CH C CH N O CH where the bond depicted on the left side of the divalent group Y is attached to R and the bond depicted on the right side is attached to the carbon atom being substituted by R in particular Y is OCH which compounds are of formula I.1 

Particularly preferred embodiments of the invention relate to compounds I wherein the group Y is one of the following radicals Y 1 to Y 10 where the bond depicted on the left side of the divalent group Y is attached to R and the bond depicted on the right side is attached to the carbon atom being substituted by R 

Particularly preferred embodiments of the invention relate to compounds I wherein the group Y is OCH .

According to a further embodiment Ris phenyl or a 3 to 10 membered saturated partially unsaturated or aromatic mono or bicyclic heterocyclyl wherein the ring member atoms of the heterocyclyl include besides carbon atoms 1 2 3 or 4 heteroatoms selected from the group of N O and S wherein Rmay carry 1 2 3 4 or up to the maximum possible number of identical or different groups Ras defined herein more preferably said 3 to 10 membered saturated partially unsaturated or aromatic mono or bicyclic heterocyclyl is a 5 to 6 membered heteroaryl wherein the ring member atoms of the heteroaryl include besides carbon atoms 1 2 or 3 heteroatoms selected from the group of N O and S.

According to a further embodiment Ris phenyl wherein the phenyl may carry 1 2 3 4 or up to the maximum possible number of identical or different groups Ras defined herein.

According to a further embodiment Ris a 5 membered heteroaryl wherein the ring member atoms of the heterocyclyl include besides carbon atoms 1 2 or 3 heteroatoms selected from the group of N O and S wherein the heteroaryl may carry 1 2 3 4 or up to the maximum possible number of identical or different groups Ras defined herein more preferably said heteroaryl is pyrazolyl imidazolyl oxazolyl isoxazolyl thiazolyl 1 2 4 triazolyl 1 2 4 oxadiazolyl 1 3 4 oxadiazolyl or 1 2 4 thiadiazolyl.

According to a further embodiment Ris pyrazolyl imidazolyl oxazolyl isoxazolyl thiazolyl 1 2 4 triazolyl 1 2 4 oxadiazolyl 1 3 4 oxadiazolyl or 1 2 4 thiadiazolyl which is substituted by phenyl wherein said phenyl may carry 1 2 3 or up to the maximum possible number of identical or different groups R which may be the same or different to any other R wherein Ris halogen C C alkyl C C alkenyl C C haloalkyl C C alkoxy C C haloalkoxy C C alkoxyimino C C alkyl phenyl or a 5 membered saturated partially unsaturated or aromatic heterocyclyl which in addition to carbon atoms contains one to three heteroatoms from the group consisting of N O and S as ring members and wherein the aforementioned heterocyclyl groups Rare attached via a direct bond an oxygen or sulfur atom and for their part may carry 1 2 3 or up to the maximum possible number of identical or different groups Ras defined herein.

According to a further embodiment Ris a 6 membered heteroaryl wherein the ring member atoms of the heterocyclyl include besides carbon atoms 1 2 or 3 heteroatoms selected from the group of N O and S wherein the heteroaryl may carry 1 2 3 4 or up to the maximum possible number of identical or different groups Ras defined herein more preferably said heteroaryl is pyridinyl or pyrimidinyl.

According to a further embodiment Rindependently of one another are selected from carboxyl C C alkyl C C alkenyl C C alkynyl C C haloalkyl C C alkoxy C C haloalkoxy C C alkylamino C C alkoxycarbonyl C C alkylcarbonyloxy phenyl naphthyl or a 3 to 10 membered saturated partially unsaturated or aromatic mono or bicyclic heterocyclyl or which in addition to carbon atoms contains one to four heteroatoms from the group consisting of O N and S as ring members and wherein the aforementioned phenyl and heterocyclyl groups Rare attached via a direct bond an oxygen or sulfur atom.

According to a further embodiment the aliphatic or cyclic groups Rfor their part carry 1 2 3 or up to the maximum possible number of identical or different groups R which may be the same or different to any other R selected from halogen hydroxyl nitro CN carboxyl C C alkyl C C alkenyl C C alkynyl C C haloalkyl C C alkoxy and C C haloalkoxy more preferably Rfor their part carry 1 2 or 3 identical or different groups R.

According to a further embodiment R which may be the same or different to any other R is halogen C C alkyl C C haloalkyl C C alkoxyimino C C alkyl phenyl or a 5 membered saturated partially unsaturated or aromatic heterocyclyl which in addition to carbon atoms contains one to three heteroatoms from the group consisting of N O and S as ring members wherein the aforementioned cyclic groups Rare attached via a direct bond an oxygen or sulfur atom and for their part may carry 1 2 3 or up to the maximum possible number of identical or different groups Ras defined herein.

According to a further embodiment two radicals Rthat are bound to adjacent ring member atoms of the cyclic group Rform together with said ring member atoms a fused 5 6 or 7 membered saturated partially unsaturated or aromatic cycle which may be a carbocycle or heterocycle wherein the ring member atoms of the fused heterocycle include besides carbon atoms 1 2 3 or 4 heteroatoms selected from the group of N O and S.

According to a further embodiment Ris CR N O R wherein Ris amino hydroxyl C C alkyl C C alkenyl C C alkynyl C C haloalkyl C C alkoxy C C haloalkoxy C C cycloalkyl C C cycloalkenyl C C alkenyloxy C C alkynyloxy C C alkoxyimino C C alkyl C C alkylamino C C alkoxycarbonyl C C alkylcarbonyloxy phenyl naphthyl or a 3 to 10 membered saturated partially unsaturated or aromatic mono or bicyclic heterocyclyl or which in addition to carbon atoms contains one to four heteroatoms from the group consisting of O N and S as ring members and wherein the aforementioned phenyl and heterocyclyl groups Rare attached via a direct bond an oxygen or sulfur atom where the aliphatic or cyclic groups Rmay carry 1 2 3 or up to the maximum possible number of identical or different groups R which may be the same or different to any other R is halogen hydroxyl nitro CN carboxyl C C alkyl C C alkenyl C C alkynyl C C haloalkyl C C alkoxy or C C haloalkoxy.

According to a further embodiment Ris CR N O R wherein Ris hydroxyl C C alkyl C C alkenyl C C alkynyl C C haloalkyl C C cycloalkyl C C cycloalkenyl C C alkoxyimino C C alkylC C alkoxycarbonyl phenyl naphthyl or a 3 to 10 membered saturated partially unsaturated or aromatic mono or bicyclic heterocyclyl or which in addition to carbon atoms contains one to four heteroatoms from the group consisting of O N and S as ring members where the aliphatic or cyclic groups Rmay carry 1 2 3 or up to the maximum possible number of identical or different groups R which may be the same or different to any other R is halogen hydroxyl nitro CN carboxyl C C alkyl C C alkenyl C C alkynyl C C haloalkyl C C alkoxy or C C haloalkoxy.

More preferably Rand R independently of each other are C C alkyl which may carry 1 2 3 or up to the maximum possible number of identical or different halogen in particular Rand Rare methyl.

According to a further embodiment the aliphatic or cyclic groups Rand or Rfor their part may carry 1 2 3 or up to the maximum possible number of identical or different groups R more preferably they carry 0 1 or 3 identical or different groups R. According to a further embodiment R which may be the same or different to any other R is halogen C C alkyl C C haloalkyl C C alkoxy or C C haloalkoxy.

According to a further embodiment Ris C NOCH CONHCH C NOCH COOCH C CHOCH COOCH C CHOCH CONHCH N OCH COOCH N CH COOCHor N CHCH COOCH

According to a further embodiment Ris C C alkyl C C haloalkyl C C alkoxy or C C haloalkoxy more preferably C C alkyl or C C alkoxy even more preferably methyl ethyl or methoxy.

According to a further embodiment Ris R4 4 as defined herein wherein X is O and wherein Ris methyl ethyl or methoxy.

Further embodiments of the invention relate to compounds I wherein the group Ris one of the following radicals R3 A to R3 B wherein indicates the point of attachment to the linker moiety Y 

Particularly preferred embodiments of the invention relate to compounds I wherein the group Ris one of the following radicals R3 1 to R3 195 wherein indicates the point of attachment to the linker moiety Y 

Preferred embodiments of the invention relate to compounds I wherein the group Ris R3 A in particular R3 1 1 4 chlorophenyl pyrazol 3 yl .

The compounds I and the compositions according to the invention respectively are suitable as fungicides. They are distinguished by an outstanding effectiveness against a broad spectrum of phytopathogenic fungi including soil borne fungi which derive especially from the classes of the Plasmodiophoromycetes Peronosporomycetes syn. Oomycetes Chytridiomycetes Zygomycetes Ascomycetes Basidiomycetes and Deuteromycetes syn. Fungi imperfecti . Some are systemically effective and they can be used in crop protection as foliar fungicides fungicides for seed dressing and soil fungicides. Moreover they are suitable for controlling harmful fungi which inter alia occur in wood or roots of plants.

The compounds I and the compositions according to the invention are particularly important in the control of a multitude of phytopathogenic fungi on various cultivated plants such as cereals e.g. wheat rye barley triticale oats or rice beet e.g. sugar beet or fodder beet fruits such as pomes stone fruits or soft fruits e.g. apples pears plums peaches almonds cherries strawberries raspberries blackberries or gooseberries leguminous plants such as lentils peas alfalfa or soybeans oil plants such as rape mustard olives sunflowers coconut cocoa beans castor oil plants oil palms ground nuts or soybeans cucurbits such as squashes cucumber or melons fiber plants such as cotton flax hemp or jute citrus fruit such as oranges lemons grapefruits or mandarins vegetables such as spinach lettuce asparagus cabbages carrots onions tomatoes potatoes cucurbits or paprika lauraceous plants such as avocados cinnamon or camphor energy and raw material plants such as corn soybean rape sugar cane or oil palm corn tobacco nuts coffee tea bananas vines table grapes and grape juice grape vines hop turf sweet leaf also called Stevia natural rubber plants or ornamental and forestry plants such as flowers shrubs broad leaved trees or evergreens e.g. conifers and on the plant propagation material such as seeds and the crop material of these plants.

Preferably compounds I and compositions thereof respectively are used for controlling a multitude of fungi on field crops such as potatoes sugar beets tobacco wheat rye barley oats rice corn cotton soybeans rape legumes sunflowers coffee or sugar cane fruits vines ornamentals or vegetables such as cucumbers tomatoes beans or squashes.

The term plant propagation material is to be understood to denote all the generative parts of the plant such as seeds and vegetative plant material such as cuttings and tubers e.g. potatoes which can be used for the multiplication of the plant. This includes seeds roots fruits tubers bulbs rhizomes shoots sprouts and other parts of plants including seedlings and young plants which are to be transplanted after germination or after emergence from soil. These young plants may also be protected before transplantation by a total or partial treatment by immersion or pouring.

Preferably treatment of plant propagation materials with compounds I and compositions thereof respectively is used for controlling a multitude of fungi on cereals such as wheat rye barley and oats rice corn cotton and soybeans.

The term cultivated plants is to be understood as including plants which have been modified by breeding mutagenesis or genetic engineering including but not limiting to agricultural biotech products on the market or in development cf. cf. http ceragmc.org see GM crop database therein . Genetically modified plants are plants which genetic material has been so modified by the use of recombinant DNA techniques that under natural circumstances cannot readily be obtained by cross breeding mutations or natural recombination. Typically one or more genes have been integrated into the genetic material of a genetically modified plant in order to improve certain properties of the plant. Such genetic modifications also include but are not limited to targeted posttranslational modification of protein s oligo or polypeptides e.g. by glycosylation or polymer additions such as prenylated acetylated or farnesylated moieties or PEG moieties.

The compounds I and compositions thereof respectively are particularly suitable for controlling the following plant diseases 

The compounds I and compositions thereof respectively may be used for improving the health of a plant. The invention also relates to a method for improving plant health by treating a plant its propagation material and or the locus where the plant is growing or is to grow with an effective amount of compounds I and compositions thereof respectively.

The term plant health is to be understood to denote a condition of the plant and or its products which is determined by several indicators alone or in combination with each other such as yield e.g. increased biomass and or increased content of valuable ingredients plant vigor e.g. improved plant growth and or greener leaves greening effect quality e.g. improved content or composition of certain ingredients and tolerance to abiotic and or biotic stress. The above identified indicators for the health condition of a plant may be interdependent or may result from each other.

The compounds of formula I can be present in different crystal modifications whose biological activity may differ. They are likewise subject matter of the present invention.

The compounds I are employed as such or in form of compositions by treating the fungi or the plants plant propagation materials such as seeds soil surfaces materials or rooms to be protected from fungal attack with a fungicidally effective amount of the active substances. The application can be carried out both before and after the infection of the plants plant propagation materials such as seeds soil surfaces materials or rooms by the fungi.

Plant propagation materials may be treated with compounds I as such or a composition comprising at least one compound I prophylactically either at or before planting or transplanting.

The invention also relates to agrochemical compositions comprising an auxiliary and at least one compound I according to the invention.

An agrochemical composition comprises a fungicidally effective amount of a compound I. The term effective amount denotes an amount of the composition or of the compounds I which is sufficient for controlling harmful fungi on cultivated plants or in the protection of materials and which does not result in a substantial damage to the treated plants. Such an amount can vary in a broad range and is dependent on various factors such as the fungal species to be controlled the treated cultivated plant or material the climatic conditions and the specific compound I used.

The compounds I their N oxides and salts can be converted into customary types of agrochemical compositions e.g. solutions emulsions suspensions dusts powders pastes granules pressings capsules and mixtures thereof. Examples for composition types are suspensions e.g. SC OD FS emulsifiable concentrates e.g. EC emulsions e.g. EW EO ES ME capsules e.g. CS ZC pastes pastilles wettable powders or dusts e.g. WP SP WS DP DS pressings e.g. BR TB DT granules e.g. WG SG GR FG GG MG insecticidal articles e.g. LN as well as gel formulations for the treatment of plant propagation materials such as seeds e.g. GF . These and further compositions types are defined in the Catalogue of pesticide formulation types and international coding system Technical Monograph No. 2 6Ed. May 2008 CropLife International.

The compositions are prepared in a known manner such as described by Mollet and Grubemann Formulation technology Wiley VCH Weinheim 2001 or Knowles New developments in crop protection product formulation Agrow Reports DS243 T F Informa London 2005.

Suitable auxiliaries are solvents liquid carriers solid carriers or fillers surfactants dispersants emulsifiers wetters adjuvants solubilizers penetration enhancers protective colloids adhesion agents thickeners humectants repellents attractants feeding stimulants compatibilizers bactericides anti freezing agents anti foaming agents colorants tackifiers and binders.

Suitable solvents and liquid carriers are water and organic solvents such as mineral oil fractions of medium to high boiling point e.g. kerosene diesel oil oils of vegetable or animal origin aliphatic cyclic and aromatic hydrocarbons e.g. toluene paraffin tetrahydronaphthalene alkylated naphthalenes alcohols e.g. ethanol propanol butanol benzylalcohol cyclohexanol glycols DMSO ketones e.g. cyclohexanone esters e.g. lactates carbonates fatty acid esters gamma butyrolactone fatty acids phosphonates amines amides e.g. N methylpyrrolidone fatty acid dimethylamides and mixtures thereof.

Suitable solid carriers or fillers are mineral earths e.g. silicates silica gels talc kaolins limestone lime chalk clays dolomite diatomaceous earth bentonite calcium sulfate magnesium sulfate magnesium oxide polysaccharides e.g. cellulose starch fertilizers e.g. ammonium sulfate ammonium phosphate ammonium nitrate ureas products of vegetable origin e.g. cereal meal tree bark meal wood meal nutshell meal and mixtures thereof.

Suitable surfactants are surface active compounds such as anionic cationic nonionic and amphoteric surfactants block polymers polyelectrolytes and mixtures thereof. Such surfactants can be used as emusifier dispersant solubilizer wetter penetration enhancer protective colloid or adjuvant. Examples of surfactants are listed in McCutcheon s Vol. 1 Emulsifiers Detergents McCutcheon s Directories Glen Rock USA 2008 International Ed. or North American Ed. .

Suitable anionic surfactants are alkali alkaline earth or ammonium salts of sulfonates sulfates phosphates carboxylates and mixtures thereof. Examples of sulfonates are alkylarylsulfonates diphenylsulfonates alpha olefin sulfonates lignine sulfonates sulfonates of fatty acids and oils sulfonates of ethoxylated alkylphenols sulfonates of alkoxylated arylphenols sulfonates of condensed naphthalenes sulfonates of dodecyl and tridecylbenzenes sulfonates of naphthalenes and alkylnaphthalenes sulfosuccinates or sulfosuccinamates. Examples of sulfates are sulfates of fatty acids and oils of ethoxylated alkylphenols of alcohols of ethoxylated alcohols or of fatty acid esters. Examples of phosphates are phosphate esters. Examples of carboxylates are alkyl carboxylates and carboxylated alcohol or alkylphenol ethoxylates.

Suitable nonionic surfactants are alkoxylates N substituted fatty acid amides amine oxides esters sugar based surfactants polymeric surfactants and mixtures thereof. Examples of alkoxylates are compounds such as alcohols alkylphenols amines amides arylphenols fatty acids or fatty acid esters which have been alkoxylated with 1 to 50 equivalents. Ethylene oxide and or propylene oxide may be employed for the alkoxylation preferably ethylene oxide. Examples of N substituted fatty acid amides are fatty acid glucamides or fatty acid alkanolamides. Examples of esters are fatty acid esters glycerol esters or monoglycerides. Examples of sugar based surfactants are sorbitans ethoxylated sorbitans sucrose and glucose esters or alkylpolyglucosides. Examples of polymeric surfactants are home or copolymers of vinylpyrrolidone vinylalcohols or vinylacetate.

Suitable cationic surfactants are quaternary surfactants for example quaternary ammonium compounds with one or two hydrophobic groups or salts of long chain primary amines. Suitable amphoteric surfactants are alkylbetains and imidazolines. Suitable block polymers are block polymers of the A B or A B A type comprising blocks of polyethylene oxide and polypropylene oxide or of the A B C type comprising alkanol polyethylene oxide and polypropylene oxide. Suitable polyelectrolytes are polyacids or polybases. Examples of polyacids are alkali salts of polyacrylic acid or polyacid comb polymers. Examples of polybases are polyvinylamines or polyethyleneamines.

Suitable adjuvants are compounds which have a neglectable or even no pesticidal activity themselves and which improve the biological performance of the compound I on the target. Examples are surfactants mineral or vegetable oils and other auxilaries. Further examples are listed by Knowles Adjuvants and additives Agrow Reports DS256 T F Informa UK 2006 chapter 5.

Suitable thickeners are polysaccharides e.g. xanthan gum carboxymethylcellulose anorganic clays organically modified or unmodified polycarboxylates and silicates.

Suitable bactericides are bronopol and isothiazolinone derivatives such as alkylisothiazolinones and benzisothiazolinones.

Suitable colorants e.g. in red blue or green are pigments of low water solubility and water soluble dyes. Examples are inorganic colorants e.g. iron oxide titan oxide iron hexacyanoferrate and organic colorants e.g. alizarin azo and phthalocyanine colorants .

Suitable tackifiers or binders are polyvinylpyrrolidons polyvinylacetates polyvinyl alcohols polyacrylates biological or synthetic waxes and cellulose ethers.

10 60 wt of a compound I and 5 15 wt wetting agent e.g. alcohol alkoxylates are dissolved in water and or in a water soluble solvent e.g. alcohols ad 100 wt . The active substance dissolves upon dilution with water.

5 25 wt of a compound I and 1 10 wt dispersant e.g. polyvinylpyrrolidone are dissolved in organic solvent e.g. cyclohexanone ad 100 wt . Dilution with water gives a dispersion.

15 70 wt of a compound I and 5 10 wt emulsifiers e.g. calcium dodecylbenzenesulfonate and castor oil ethoxylate are dissolved in water insoluble organic solvent e.g. aromatic hydrocarbon ad 100 wt . Dilution with water gives an emulsion.

5 40 wt of a compound I and 1 10 wt emulsifiers e.g. calcium dodecylbenzenesulfonate and castor oil ethoxylate are dissolved in 20 40 wt water insoluble organic solvent e.g. aromatic hydrocarbon . This mixture is introduced into water ad 100 wt by means of an emulsifying machine and made into a homogeneous emulsion. Dilution with water gives an emulsion.

In an agitated ball mill 20 60 wt of a compound I are comminuted with addition of 2 10 wt dispersants and wetting agents e.g. sodium lignosulfonate and alcohol ethoxylate 0.1 2 wt thickener e.g. xanthan gum and water ad 100 wt to give a fine active substance suspension. Dilution with water gives a stable suspension of the active substance. For FS type composition up to 40 wt binder e.g. polyvinylalcohol is added.

50 80 wt of a compound I are ground finely with addition of dispersants and wetting agents e.g. sodium lignosulfonate and alcohol ethoxylate ad 100 wt and prepared as water dispersible or water soluble granules by means of technical appliances e.g. extrusion spray tower fluidized bed . Dilution with water gives a stable dispersion or solution of the active substance.

50 80 wt of a compound I are ground in a rotor stator mill with addition of 1 5 wt dispersants e.g. sodium lignosulfonate 1 3 wt wetting agents e.g. alcohol ethoxylate and solid carrier e.g. silica gel ad 100 wt . Dilution with water gives a stable dispersion or solution of the active substance.

In an agitated ball mill 5 25 wt of a compound I are comminuted with addition of 3 10 wt dispersants e.g. sodium lignosulfonate 1 5 wt thickener e.g. carboxymethylcellulose and water ad 100 wt to give a fine suspension of the active substance. Dilution with water gives a stable suspension of the active substance.

5 20 wt of a compound I are added to 5 30 wt organic solvent blend e.g. fatty acid dimethylamide and cyclohexanone 10 25 wt surfactant blend e.g. alcohol ethoxylate and arylphenol ethoxylate and water ad 100 . This mixture is stirred for 1 h to produce spontaneously a thermodynamically stable microemulsion.

An oil phase comprising 5 50 wt of a compound I 0 40 wt water insoluble organic solvent e.g. aromatic hydrocarbon 2 15 wt acrylic monomers e.g. methylmethacrylate methacrylic acid and a di or triacrylate are dispersed into an aqueous solution of a protective colloid e.g. polyvinyl alcohol . Radical polymerization initiated by a radical initiator results in the formation of poly meth acrylate microcapsules. Alternatively an oil phase comprising 5 50 wt of a compound I according to the invention 0 40 wt water insoluble organic solvent e.g. aromatic hydrocarbon and an isocyanate monomer e.g. diphenylmethene 4 4 diisocyanatae are dispersed into an aqueous solution of a protective colloid e.g. polyvinyl alcohol . The addition of a polyamine e.g. hexamethylenediamine results in the formation of polyurea microcapsules. The monomers amount to 1 10 wt . The wt relate to the total CS composition.

1 10 wt of a compound I are ground finely and mixed intimately with solid carrier e.g. finely divided kaolin ad 100 wt .

0.5 30 wt of a compound I is ground finely and associated with solid carrier e.g. silicate ad 100 wt . Granulation is achieved by extrusion spray drying or fluidized bed.

The compositions types i to xi may optionally comprise further auxiliaries such as 0.1 1 wt bactericides 5 15 wt anti freezing agents 0.1 1 wt anti foaming agents and 0.1 1 wt colorants.

The agrochemical compositions generally comprise between 0.01 and 95 preferably between 0.1 and 90 and in particular between 0.5 and 75 by weight of active substance. The active substances are employed in a purity of from 90 to 100 preferably from 95 to 100 according to NMR spectrum .

Solutions for seed treatment LS Suspoemulsions SE flowable concentrates FS powders for dry treatment DS water dispersible powders for slurry treatment WS water soluble powders SS emulsions ES emulsifiable concentrates EC and gels GF are usually employed for the purposes of treatment of plant propagation materials particularly seeds. The compositions in question give after two to tenfold dilution active substance concentrations of from 0.01 to 60 by weight preferably from 0.1 to 40 in the ready to use preparations. Application can be carried out before or during sowing. Methods for applying compound I and compositions thereof respectively on to plant propagation material especially seeds include dressing coating pelleting dusting soaking and in furrow application methods of the propagation material. Preferably compound I or the compositions thereof respectively are applied on to the plant propagation material by a method such that germination is not induced e.g. by seed dressing pelleting coating and dusting.

When employed in plant protection the amounts of active substances applied are depending on the kind of effect desired from 0.001 to 2 kg per ha preferably from 0.005 to 2 kg per ha more preferably from 0.05 to 0.9 kg per ha and in particular from 0.1 to 0.75 kg per ha.

In treatment of plant propagation materials such as seeds e.g. by dusting coating or drenching seed amounts of active substance of from 0.1 to 1000 g preferably from 1 to 1000 g more preferably from 1 to 100 g and most preferably from 5 to 100 g per 100 kilogram of plant propagation material preferably seeds are generally required.

When used in the protection of materials or stored products the amount of active substance applied depends on the kind of application area and on the desired effect. Amounts customarily applied in the protection of materials are 0.001 g to 2 kg preferably 0.005 g to 1 kg of active substance per cubic meter of treated material.

Various types of oils wetters adjuvants fertilizer or micronutrients and further pesticides e.g. herbicides insecticides fungicides growth regulators safeners may be added to the active substances or the compositions comprising them as premix or if appropriate not until immediately prior to use tank mix . These agents can be admixed with the compositions according to the invention in a weight ratio of 1 100 to 100 1 preferably 1 10 to 10 1.

The user applies the composition according to the invention usually from a predosage device a knapsack sprayer a spray tank a spray plane or an irrigation system. Usually the agrochemical composition is made up with water buffer and or further auxiliaries to the desired application concentration and the ready to use spray liquor or the agrochemical composition according to the invention is thus obtained. Usually 20 to 2000 liters preferably 50 to 400 liters of the ready to use spray liquor are applied per hectare of agricultural useful area.

According to one embodiment individual components of the composition according to the invention such as parts of a kit or parts of a binary or ternary mixture may be mixed by the user himself in a spray tank and further auxiliaries may be added if appropriate.

Mixing the compounds I or the compositions comprising them in the use form as fungicides with other fungicides results in many cases in an expansion of the fungicidal spectrum of activity being obtained or in a prevention of fungicide resistance development. Furthermore in many cases synergistic effects are obtained.

The following list of active substances in conjunction with which the compounds I can be used is intended to illustrate the possible combinations but does not limit them 

The present invention furthermore relates to agrochemical compositions comprising a mixture of at least one compound I component 1 and at least one further active substance useful for plant protection e.g. selected from the groups A to O component 2 in particular one further fungicide e.g. one or more fungicide from the groups A to L as described above and if desired one suitable solvent or solid carrier. Those mixtures are of particular interest since many of them at the same application rate show higher efficiencies against harmful fungi. Furthermore combating harmful fungi with a mixture of compounds I and at least one fungicide from groups A to L as described above is more efficient than combating those fungi with individual compounds I or individual fungicides from groups A to L . By applying compounds I together with at least one active substance from groups A to O a synergistic effect can be obtained i.e. more then simple addition of the individual effects is obtained synergistic mixtures .

This can be obtained by applying the compounds I and at least one further active substance simultaneously either jointly e.g. as tank mix or separately or in succession wherein the time interval between the individual applications is selected to ensure that the active substance applied first still occurs at the site of action in a sufficient amount at the time of application of the further active substance s . The order of application is not essential for working of the present invention.

In binary mixtures i.e. compositions according to the invention comprising one compound I component 1 and one further active substance component 2 e.g. one active substance from groups A to O the weight ratio of component 1 and component 2 generally depends from the properties of the active substances used usually it is in the range of from 1 100 to 100 1 regularly in the range of from 1 50 to 50 1 preferably in the range of from 1 20 to 20 1 more preferably in the range of from 1 10 to 10 1 and in particular in the range of from 1 3 to 3 1.

In ternary mixtures i.e. compositions according to the invention comprising one compound I component 1 and a first further active substance component 2 and a second further active substance component 3 e.g. two active substances from groups A to O the weight ratio of component 1 and component 2 depends from the properties of the active substances used preferably it is in the range of from 1 50 to 50 1 and particularly in the range of from 1 10 to 10 1 and the weight ratio of component 1 and component 3 preferably is in the range of from 1 50 to 50 1 and particularly in the range of from 1 10 to 10 1.

Preference is also given to mixtures comprising a compound I component 1 and at least one active substance selected from group A component 2 and particularly selected from azoxystrobin dimoxystrobin fluoxastrobin kresoxim methyl orysastrobin picoxystrobin pyraclostrobin trifloxystrobin famoxadone fenamidone benzovindiflupyr bixafen boscalid fluopyram fluxapyroxad isopyrazam penflufen penthiopyrad sedaxane ametoctradin cyazofamid fluazinam fentin salts such as fentin acetate.

Preference is given to mixtures comprising a compound of formula I component 1 and at least one active substance selected from group B component 2 and particularly selected from cyproconazole difenoconazole epoxiconazole fluquinconazole flusilazole flutriafol metconazole myclobutanil penconazole propiconazole prothioconazole triadimefon triadimenol tebuconazole tetraconazole triticonazole prochloraz fenarimol triforine dodemorph fenpropimorph tridemorph fenpropidin spiroxamine fenhexamid.

Preference is given to mixtures comprising a compound of formula I component 1 and at least one active substance selected from group C component 2 and particularly selected from metalaxyl metalaxyl M mefenoxam ofurace.

Preference is given to mixtures comprising a compound of formula I component 1 and at least one active substance selected from group D component 2 and particularly selected from benomyl carbendazim thiophanate methyl ethaboxam fluopicolide zoxamide metrafenone pyriofenone.

Preference is also given to mixtures comprising a compound I component 1 and at least one active substance selected from group E component 2 and particularly selected from cyprodinil mepanipyrim pyrimethanil.

Preference is also given to mixtures comprising a compound I component 1 and at least one active substance selected from group F component 2 and particularly selected from iprodione fludioxonil vinclozolin quinoxyfen.

Preference is also given to mixtures comprising a compound I component 1 and at least one active substance selected from group G component 2 and particularly selected from dimethomorph flumorph iprovalicarb benthiavalicarb mandipropamid propamocarb.

Preference is also given to mixtures comprising a compound I component 1 and at least one active substance selected from group H component 2 and particularly selected from copper acetate copper hydroxide copper oxychloride copper sulfate sulfur mancozeb metiram propineb thiram captafol folpet chlorothalonil dichlofluanid dithianon.

Preference is also given to mixtures comprising a compound I component 1 and at least one active substance selected from group I component 2 and particularly selected from carpropamid and fenoxanil.

Preference is also given to mixtures comprising a compound I component 1 and at least one active substance selected from group J component 2 and particularly selected from acibenzolar S methyl probenazole tiadinil fosetyl fosetyl aluminium HPOand salts thereof.

Preference is also given to mixtures comprising a compound I component 1 and at least one active substance selected from group K component 2 and particularly selected from cymoxanil proquinazid and N methyl 2 1 5 methyl 3 trifluoromethyl 1H pyrazol 1 yl acetyl piperidin 4 yl N 1R 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronaphthalen 1 yl 4 thiazolecarboxamide.

Preference is also given to mixtures comprising a compound I component 1 and at least one active substance selected from group L component 2 and particularly selected from strain NRRL No. B 21661 strain NRRL No. B 30087 and

Accordingly the present invention furthermore relates to compositions comprising one compound I component 1 and one further active substance component 2 which further active substance is selected from the column Component 2 of the lines B 1 to B 369 of Table B.

A further embodiment relates to the compositions B 1 to B 369 listed in Table B where a row of Table B corresponds in each case to a fungicidal composition comprising one of the in the present specification individualized compounds of formula I component 1 and the respective further active substance from groups A to O component 2 stated in the row in question. Preferably the compositions described comprise the active substances in synergistically effective amounts.

The active substances referred to as component 2 their preparation and their activity against harmful fungi is known cf. http www.alanwood.net pesticides these substances are commercially available. The compounds described by IUPAC nomenclature their preparation and their fungicidal activity are also known cf. Can. J. Plant Sci. 48 6 587 94 1968 EP A 141 317 EP A 152 031 EP A 226 917 EP A 243 970 EP A 256 503 EP A 428 941 EP A 532 022 EP A 1 028 125 EP A 1 035 122 EP A 1 201 648 EP A 1 122 244 JP 2002316902 DE 19650197 DE 10021412 DE 102005009458 U.S. Pat. No. 3 296 272 U.S. Pat. No. 3 325 503 WO 98 46608 WO 99 14187 WO 99 24413 WO 99 27783 WO 00 29404 WO 00 46148 WO 00 65913 WO 01 54501 WO 01 56358 WO 02 22583 WO 02 40431 WO 03 10149 WO 03 11853 WO 03 14103 WO 03 16286 WO 03 53145 WO 03 61388 WO 03 66609 WO 03 74491 WO 04 49804 WO 04 83193 WO 05 120234 WO 05 123689 WO 05 123690 WO 05 63721 WO 05 87772 WO 05 87773 WO 06 15866 WO 06 87325 WO 06 87343 WO 07 82098 WO 07 90624 WO 11 028 657 .

The mixtures of active substances can be prepared as compositions comprising besides the active ingredients at least one inert ingredient by usual means e.g. by the means given for the compositions of compounds I.

Concerning usual ingredients of such compositions reference is made to the explanations given for the compositions containing compounds I.

The mixtures of active substances according to the present invention are suitable as fungicides as are the compounds of formula I. They are distinguished by an outstanding effectiveness against a broad spectrum of phytopathogenic fungi especially from the classes of the Ascomycetes Basidiomycetes Deuteromycetes and Peronosporomycetes syn. Oomycetes . In addition it is referred to the explanations regarding the fungicidal activity of the compounds and the compositions containing compounds I respectively.

With due modification of the starting compounds the procedures shown in the synthesis examples below were used to obtain further compounds I. The resulting compounds together with physical data are listed in Table I below.

To 156.9 ml 156.9 mmol of a 1 molar solution of lithium aluminum hydride in THF 0.77 g 14.3 mmol sodium methylate have been added and the temperature has been lowered to 0 C. afterwards. Then a solution of 10.0 g 142.7 mmol 2 butin 1 ol in 108 ml THF has been added dropwise with stirring at this temperature. Stirring was continued for 36 h at 4 C. Thereafter at about 0 C. 28.6 ml 292.5 mmol ethyl acetate was added slowly while stirring. A strongly exothermic reaction was observed. Stirring was continued for 10 min without cooling. After cooling to about 0 C. 45.8 g 142.7 mmol tri n butyl stannyl methanolate have been added dropwise while stirring. Stirring was continued for 2 d at 4 C. After addition of 112.9 g methanol stirring was continued for 1 h at ambient temperature. The reaction mixture was poured into 250 ml of water extracted thrice with 150 ml diethyl ether each the combined extracts were washed twice with 80 ml of water each then once with 40 ml saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution dried with sodium sulfate and concentrated in vacuo. Yield 48.6 g oil which have been purified by chromatography on 300 g silica gel with hexane MTBE 10 1 . Final yield 34.6 g 67 oil. 0.90 m 1.30 m 1.50 m 1.97 s 4.02 t 6.27 t .

To 8.09 g 30.8 mmol triphenylphosphine in 200 ml THF have been added with stirring at 75 C. 6.23 g 30.8 mmol azodicarbonic acid diisopropyl ester. The mixture has been stirred at this temperature for 5 min. Then 10.39 g 28.8 mmol Z 3 tributylstannanyl but 2 en 1 ol have been added dropwise and stirred for 5 min at 75 C. After addition of 4.00 g 20.6 mmol 1 4 chlorophenyl 3 hydroxypyrazole at 75 C. a red suspension was formed. The mixture was allowed to warm up to ambient temperature and stirred for 3 d. After removal of the solvents in vacuo 29 g oil have been collected and purified by chromatography on 120 g silica with MTBE heptane. Yield 8.3 g 75 oil. 0.85 m 0.95 m 1.30 m 1.50 m 2.00 s 4.65 d 5.90 d 6.43 t 7.35 d 7.52 d 7.68 d .

3.00 g 5.58 mmol 1 4 Chloro phenyl 3 Z 3 tributylstannanyl but 2 enyloxy 1H pyrazole 1.15 g 5.86 mmol hydroxamic acid bromide 6 0.155 g 0.67 mmol tri 2 furyl phosphine and 96 mg 0.17 mmol bis dibenzylidenacetone palladium have been stirred in 10 ml 1 4 dioxane for 4 d at about 80 C. After removal of the solvents in vacuo 4.3 g oil have been collected and purified by chromatography on 70 g silica with MTBE heptane 1 triethylamine. Yield 1.2 g 59 oil. 1.95 s 3.85 s 4.07 s 4.58 d 5.85 d 5.93 t 7.35 d 7.52 d 7.65 d .

120 mg 0.33 mmol Z 5 1 4 chloro phenyl 1H pyrazol 3 yloxy 2 E methoxyimino 3 methyl pent 3 enic acid methyl ester and 0.99 ml 1.98 mmol of a 2 molar solution of methyl amine in THF have been stirred overnight at ambient temperature in 2.0 ml of THF and 0.5 ml of water. After removal of the solvent in vacuo the product 120 mg was collected in quantitative yield and good purity. Melting point 129 130 C.

1.50 g 2.79 mmol 1 4 Chloro phenyl 3 Z 3 tributylstannanyl but 2 enyloxy 1H pyrazole 5 0.81 g 3.35 mmol of ester compound 8 Chem Comm 4 423 425 2006 0.223 g 0.28 mmol R 2 2 Bis diphenylphosphino 1 1 bisnaphthyl palladium II chloride have been stirred in 14 ml 1 4 dioxane for 4.5 d at about 100 C. After removal of the solvents in vacuo the crude product has been collected which has been purified by chromatography on 50 g silica with MTBE hexane 2 triethylamine. Yield 0.12 g melting point 123 125 C.

To 10.0 g 18.6 mmol 1 4 chloro phenyl 3 Z 3 tributylstannanyl but 2 enyloxy 1H pyrazole in 100 ml methylene chloride have been added 4.7 g 18.6 mmol iodine at ambient temperature with stirring which was continued for 3 h. After removal of the solvents in vacuo the crude product was dissolved in 200 ml MTBE. 100 ml 20 aqueous potassium fluoride solution have been added and the mixture was stirred for 2 h at ambient temperature. The aqueous layer was separated and extracted with 20 ml methyl tert. butyl ether twice. The combined organic phases have been washed twice with 20 ml of water each dried with sodium sulfate and the solvents were removed in vacuo. The crude product 7.2 g has been purified by chromatography on 50 g silica with methyl tert. butylether hexane 1 20 . Yield 5.9 g melting point 75 77 C.

1.50 g 4.00 mmol 1 4 chlorophenyl 3 Z 3 iodobut 2 enoxy pyrazole 0.43 g 4.81 mmol N methylcarbamic acid methyl ester 9 76 mg 0.4 mmol copperiodide 1.27 g 6.00 mmol potassium phosphate and 71 mg 0.80 mmol N N dimethylethylene diamine in 14 ml toluene have been stirred for 1.5 d at 100 C. After removal of the solvents in vacuo the crude product has been purified by chromatography on 50 g silica with MTBE hexane 1 3 . Yield 0.67 g. H NMR CDCl 1.90 s 3.05 s 3.70 s 4.68 m 5.63 m 5.90 d 7.35 m 7.55 m 7.68 d .

5.50 g 28.3 mmol 1 4 chlorophenyl pyrazol 3 ol 3.91 g 28.3 mmol potassium carbonate and 50 mg sodium iodide in 30 ml DMF have been stirred for 5 min at ambient temperature. Then 2.62 g 28.3 mmol chloroacetone have been added dropwise while stirring which was continued at 60 C. for 5 h. The mixture was poured into excess 10 aqueous lithium chloride solution and extracted with ethyl acetate three times. The combined extracts have been washed with 10 lithium chloride solution twice and dried with sodium sulfate. After removal of the solvent in vacuo the crude product has been purified by chromatography on silica. Yield 6.5 g. The product was used for the next step.

To 5.26 g 21.0 mmol 1 1 4 chlorophenyl pyrazol 3 yl oxypropan 2 one and 7.20 g 26.9 mmol methyl 2Z 3 diethoxyphosphoryl 2 methoxyimino propanoate which can be prepared as described for the dimethoxy derivative Tetrahedron Let 29 3361 3364 1988 in 100 ml THF have been added at ambient temperature with stirring 2.59 g 23.1 mmol potassium tert. butylate. Stirring was continued over night. After removal of the solvent in vacuo the mixture was purified by chromatography on silica with heptane ethyl acetate. 1.07 g of a 80 20 E Z mixture have been collected. This has been used directly for the next step.

0.68 g 1.87 mmol methyl Z 2E 5 1 4 chlorophenyl pyrazol 3 yl oxy 2 methoxyimino 4 methyl pent 3 enoate and E isomer from the previous reaction have been dissolved in 3.0 ml THF. 2.0 ml 40 aqueous methylamine have been added at ambient temperature with stirring which was continued over night. After removal of the solvent in vacuo the mixture was purified by chromatography on silica with a heptane ethyl acetate gradient. 90 mg of the desired Z isomer have been collected. H NMR CDCl 2.03 s 2.85 d 3.97 s 4.64 s 5.87 s 6.02 d 6.65 br 7.35 d 7.50 d 7.67 d .

To 10.0 g 138.7 mmol Z but 2 en 1 ol in 140 ml dichloromethane DCM 37.6 g 152.6 mmol 3 chloroperbenzoic acid 70 purity have been added at 0 5 C. in small portions with stirring. Stirring was continued at 0 C. for 2 h. 35.0 g calcium hydroxide have been added at 0 5 C. with stirring which was continued for about 2 h at 0 C. The precipitate was filtered off washed with DCM and the filtrates dried with sodium sulfate. The solvent was largely removed at 380 mbar 30 C. The crude product 15.0 g purity 75 was used without further purification.

To 28.3 g 107.9 mmol triphenylphosphine and 15.0 g 127.7 mmol cis 3 methyloxiran 2 yl methanol 15 from the preceding experiment in 400 ml THF have been added with stirring at 75 C. 22.9 g 113.0 mmol azodicarbonic acid diisopropyl ester. The mixture has been stirred at this temperature for 5 min. Then 20.0 g 102.8 mmol 1 4 chlorophenyl 3 hydroxypyrazole have been added with stirring at 70 C. The mixture was allowed to warm up to ambient temperature and stirred for about 1d. After removal of the solvents in vacuo the crude product was stirred with 200 ml of diisopropylether from which 42 g of a solid substance have been collected and further purified by chromatography on 330 g silica with MTBE heptane. Yield 22.5 g 82 .

To 1.08 g 10.0 mmol methyl N methoxycarbamate in 17 ml DMSO have been added with stirring at ambient temperature 1.00 g 8.9 mmol potassium tert. butylate. Stirring has been continued for 5 min before 2.00 g 7.56 mmol 1 4 chloro phenyl 3 2R 3S 3 methyloxiran 2 yl methoxy pyrazole have been added. The mixture was stirred at 90 C. for 20 h. After cooling to ambient temperature the reaction mixture was poured into 150 ml of water extracted thrice with 30 ml ethyl acetate each the combined extracts have been dried with sodium sulfate and the solvent removed in vacuo. The crude product 2.5 g was used without further purification.

To 10.0 g 30.0 mmol 5 1 4 chlorophenyl pyrazol 3 yl oxymethyl 3 methoxy 4 methyl oxazolidin 2 one in 100 ml ethanol has been added at ambient temperature with stirring 14.6 g 40.0 mmol 21 sodium ethylate solution in ethanol and stirred over night. The solvent was largely removed in vacuo and the remaining mixture poured into 250 ml aqueous sodium dihydrogenphosphate solution extracted thrice with 150 ml ethyl acetate each dried with sodium sulfate to yield 8.7 g of an oil after evaporation of the solvent in vacuo. Further purified by chromatography on 120 g silica with MTBE heptane. Yield 4.0 g 43 . H NMR CDCl 1.22 d 3.17 m 3.57 s 3.91 m 4.33 m 4.47 m 5.93 s 7.35 d 7.52 d 7.68 s .

To 1.00 g 3.2 mmol Racemic 2S 3R 1 1 4 chlorophenyl pyrazol 3 yl oxy 3 methoxyamino butan 2 ol in 7 ml THF 0.28 g 3.5 mmol sodium hydrogencarbonate has been added. Then 0.33 g 3.5 mmol methyl chloroformiate has been added dropwise with stirring at ambient temperature. Stirring has been continued over night. The reaction mixture was poured into 10 ml of water extracted thrice with 10 ml MTBE each the combined extracts dried with sodium sulfate and the solvent removed in vacuo. The crude product 1.3 g was used without further purification.

To 3.50 g 9.46 mmol racemic methyl N 1R 2S 3 1 4 chlorophenyl pyrazol 3 yl oxy 2 hydroxy 1 methyl propyl N methoxy carbamate in 13 ml THF 2.61 g 9.94 mmol triphenylphoshin has been added with stirring at ambient temperature. The mixture was cooled to 15 C. Then 2.11 g 10.41 mmol azodicarbonic acid diisopropyl ester has been added with stirring which was continued for 1 h at 0 C. and for about 1d at ambient temperature. After removal of the solvents in vacuo the crude product was further purified by chromatography on 25 g silica with MTBE heptane 1 triethylamine. H NMR CDCl 1.93 s 3.72 s 3.81 s 4.78 d 5.73 t 5.90 d 7.36 d 7.55 d 7.70 d .

The fungicidal action of the compounds of the formula I was demonstrated by the following experiments 

The active substances were formulated separately as a stock solution in dimethyl sulfoxide DMSO at a concentration of 10 000 ppm.

100 ml 2 Malt extract in water at pH6.8 were inoculated with microspores from 2 week old cultures grown on 2 malt extract 2 agar in Petri dishes and incubated for 3 days on a rotary shaker at 24 C. und 150 rpm. The culture was harvested glycerol was added 15 v v and kept frozen at 20 C. in aliquots of 1 ml.

1 ml stock suspension was thawed and suspended into 800 ml of 2 malt extract in water at pH 6.8. Compounds were diluted from stock solution in dimethylsulfoxide DMSO in 10 steps. The compound solutions were diluted 1 5 with sterile deionized water before use. 5 l of the compound solutions were transferred into empty microplates. The plates were then filled with 195 l of the microspore suspension of each strain.

The antifungal activity was determined by measuring the turbidity of a culture in 96 well microplates in the presence of test compounds. Fungal growth was measured by recording the optical density at 620 nm every 15 h for 150 h. The relative antifungal activity was calculated by comparison of the effect of the test compounds with the effect of a DMSO control and a standard fungicide.

IC values concentration of test compound resulting in 50 inhibition of fungal growth were calculated from the resulting dose response for each compound and strain. The initial concentration of the test compounds and the 10 steps of dilution 1 4 each allowed IC values from 0.001 to 100 mol l M to be assessed.

While commercial strobilurine type fungicides are do not show any activity against the resistant strain containing a mutation in the mitochondrial cytochrome b gene conferring resistance to Qo inhibitors G143A while being active against sensitive wild type strains compounds I have been active against both the resistant and the wild type strains. In general the resistance factor ratio RF calculated from the IC50 values determined for both strains was below 30 for the compounds I according to the invention. However resistance factor ratios for commercial strobilurine type compounds are in most cases greater than 100 and usually greater than several hundreds for details see e.g. FRAC Mutations associated with QoI resistance December 2006 http frac.info frac work Mutations 20associated 20with 20QoI 20resistance.pdf and citations cited therein .

Compound I 6 was used as 50 g l EC formulation. Pyraclostrobin was used as commercial product HEADLINE.

The trial was conducted under field conditions in B hl lggelheim Rhineland palatinate Germany. Seeds of winter wheat cv. Riband were planted and grown under standard conditions with adequate supply of water and nutrients. At growing stage GS 32 Apr. 14 2011 a first compound treatment 200 g a.i. per ha was made with a water volume of 400 L ha which was repeated 21 days later at growing stage GS 39. No further fungicide treatments were applied. Infection with fungal pathogens e.g. occurred naturally. The evaluation of the disease incidences for 20 33 and 46 days after the last treatment DAA are shown in table III. In the last row the evaluation of the percentage of Qo inhibitor resistant isolates with the G143A mutation after the treatments is given.

In this test the fungal pathogen been completely selected towards Qo inhibitor resistant isolates by each of the treatments with the strobilurin analgue compounds Pyraclostrobin and compound I 6. Due to this high resistance level Pyraclostrobin showed insufficient control level although it has been used at commercial dose levels whereas compound I 6 was capable to control the Qo inhibitor resistant isolates of with the G143 mutation.

This trial was conducted under field conditions in Limburgerhof Rhineland Palatinate Germany. Seeds of winter wheat cv. Riband were planted and grown under standard conditions with adequate supply of water and nutrients. At growing stage GS 33 Apr. 8 2011 a first first compound treatment 200 g a.i per ha was made with a water volume of 400 L ha which was repeated 26 days later at growing stage GS 39. No further fungicide treatments were applied. Infection with fungal pathogens e.g. occurred naturally. The evaluation of the disease incidences for 19 and 34 days after the last treatment DAA are shown in Table IV. In the last row the evaluation of the percentage of Qo inhibitor resistant isolates with the G143A mutation after the treatments is given.

In this test about the entire population of the fungal pathogen has been Qo inhibitor resistant as evaluated at the end of the trial . Due to this high resistance level Pyraclostrobin has shown antifungal activity only slightly above the untreated control although it has been used at commercial dose levels. However compound I 6 was capable to reduce the infection by Qo inhibitor resistant with the G143 mutation significantly.

The stock solution was prepared as follows 1.26 ml of a 1 1 mixture of cyclohexanone and dimethylsulfoxide was added to 8.4 mg of active ingredient. Next 40.74 ml of a mixture of water acetone 10 the emulsifier Wettol 0.1 and the wetting agent Silwet 0.05 was added. This stock solution was then further diluted with the described solvent emulsifier water mixture to the desired concentrations.

Trial 3 Control of Leaf Blotch on Wheat Caused by Caused by Two Isolates Containing the G143A in the Cytochrome b Gene for their Cytochrome bcComplex

Wheat plants were grown in pots. These plants were sprayed to run off with an aqueous suspension containing the desired concentration of active ingredient. The next day the treated plants were inoculated with an aqueous suspension of . After inoculation the trial plants were covered with a lid and immediately transferred to a chamber with a relative humidity of about 83 to 85 and 19.5 to 20 C. After 4 days the lid was removed. Altogether the trial plants were cultivated for about 28 days in that greenhouse chamber. The extent of fungal attack on the leaves was then visually assessed as diseased leaf area.

Structural models of the binding site of wild type and G143A cytochrome bccomplex were generated based on the crystallographic structure of bovine cytochrome bccomplex with azoxystrobin bound to the Qo site PDB 1SQB Esser et al. J Mol Biol 341 281 302 2004 .

Cytochrome b was isolated from the structure of the complex and treated with the Schr dinger Protein Preparation Wizard Schr dinger Suite 2009 Protein Preparation Wizard Epik version 2.0 Schr dinger LLC New York N.Y. 2009 Impact version 5.5 Schr dinger LLC New York N.Y. 2009 Prime version 2.1 Schr dinger LLC New York N.Y. 2009 .

The model of the G143A mutant was generated by changing a hydrogen in Glycine 143 of the wild type model into a methyl group thereby generating S Alanine using Schr dinger Maestro. Amino acids in a sphere of 5 around the co crystallized molecule of azoxystrobin were energy minimized using Schr dinger MacroModel version 9.7 Schr dinger LLC New York N.Y. 2009 .

Structures of inhibitors were prepared for docking with Schr dinger LigPrep version 2.3 Schr dinger LLC New York N.Y. 2009 and docked into the structural models using Schr dinger Glide version 5.5 Schr dinger LLC New York N.Y. 2009 .

Graphical representations of poses from the docking runs were generated using Molecular Operating Environment MOE 2010.10 Chemical Computing Group Inc. 1010 Sherbooke St. West Suite 910 Montreal QC Canada H3A 2R7 2010 and refined using the GNU Image Manipulation Program GIMP version 2.6.8 2008 .

As illustrated in molecular modelling of an artificial Qo inhibitor resistant cytochrome bccomplex with the mutation G143A see below for details has been carried out. Docking of the commercial storbilurine analogue compound pyraclostrobin shows the steric clash resulting in impaired binding of this active ingredient in the G143A mutant cytochrome bccomplex. The compounds of the present invention largely avoid this steric clash by either replacing the central phenyl ring of pyraclostrobin with a smaller and or more flexible two carbon unit which may be suitably substituted or by replacing the well known pharmacophores with the smaller tetrazolinone moiety R4 7.

The docked ligands were transferred to the G143A binding site model keeping the coordinates from docking into the wild type model. Thereby complexes between the G143A binding site and ligands were formed. Those were used as starting structures for the following energy minimization using Schr dinger MacroModel. During these simulations only the ligand was allowed to move freely the protein was considered frozen . The poses generated by this procedure were considered as the relaxed state of the inhibitors after introduction of the G143A mutation.

Two atoms are considered to be sterically clashing if the distance between their centers is shorter than 0.9 times the sum of their Van der Waals radii. For the atoms pairs relevant for strobilurin interaction with Alanine 143 the respective distances are described in Table V.

After mimization in the G143A binding site as described above the number of steric Van der Waals clashes with Alanine 143 was counted for each inhibitor. The results are given in the Table VI.

It was found that compounds I have a small number of steric Van der Waals clashes and also have unexpectedly high activity against Qo inhibitor resistant fungal strains harboring said G143A mutation in microtiter titer tests as well as in field trials on sites which have a high portion of Qo inhibitor resistant fungi strains harboring said G143A mutation see below .

