---

title: Clocked combustor can array
abstract: The present application provides a clocked combustor can array for coherence reduction in a gas turbine engine. The clocked combustor can array may include a number of combustor cans positioned in a circumferential array. A first set of the combustor cans may have a first orientation and a second set of the combustor cans may have a second orientation.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09546601&OS=09546601&RS=09546601
owner: General Electric Company
number: 09546601
owner_city: Schenectady
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121120
---
This invention was made with Government support under grant number DE FC26 05NT42643 ARRA awarded by the Department of Energy. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

The present application and the resultant patent relate generally to gas turbine engines and more particularly relate to an array of non circular head end combustors arranged in a clocked configuration for coherence reduction and increased component life.

Combustor cans in a multiple can array may communicate acoustically with each other. Large pressure oscillations also known as combustion dynamics may result when heat release fluctuations couple with combustor can acoustic tones. Some of these combustor can acoustic tones may be in phase with the tones of an adjacent can while other tones may be out of phase. The in phase tones may excite the turbine blades in the hot gas path if the tones coincide with the natural frequency of the blades. The in phase tones may be particularly of concern when the instabilities in different combustor cans are coherent i.e. a strong relationship in the frequency and the amplitude of the instability in one can to the next can. Such coherent in phase tones may excite the turbine buckets so as to lead to durability issues and thereby limit the operability of the gas turbine engine.

Current solutions to these potentially damaging in phase coherent tones focus on combustor tuning. Such tuning may provide cans of different volume and length so as to limit the amplitude of the in phase coherent tones near the bucket natural frequencies as compared to typical design practice limits. These tuning techniques thus may mean that the overall operability space may be limited by the in phase coherent tones. Moreover a significant amount of time and resources may be required to achieve frequency avoidance between the combustor and the turbine components. Further frequency avoidance may only as accurate as the predictive capability used to achieve such.

There is thus a desire for improved systems and methods for coherence reduction between combustor components and turbine components without requiring combustor tuning and other types of conventional frequency avoidance techniques. Preferably such systems and methods may reduce overall coherence so as to improve component lifetime without compromising system efficiency and output and without requiring extensive modifications.

The present application and the resultant patent may provide a clocked combustor can array for coherence reduction in a gas turbine engine. The clocked combustor can array may include a number of combustor cans positioned in a circumferential array. A first set of the combustor cans may have a first orientation and a second set of the combustor cans may have a second orientation.

The present application and the resultant patent further may provide a method of operating a combustor can array with reduced coherence. The method may include the steps of positioning a first set of combustor cans at a first orientation operating the first set of combustor cans in a first tone positioning a second set of combustor cans at a second orientation and operating the second set of combustor cans in a second tone.

The present application and the resultant patent may provide a clocked combustor can array for coherence reduction in a gas turbine engine. The clocked combustor can array may include a number of combustor cans positioned in a circumferential array. Each of the combustor cans may include a non circular head end. A first set of the combustor cans may have a first orientation and a second set of the combustor cans may have a second orientation.

These and other features and improvements of the present application and the resultant patent will become apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art upon review of the following detailed description when taken in conjunction with the several drawings and the appended claims.

Referring now to the drawings in which like numerals refer to like elements throughout the several views shows a schematic diagram of gas turbine engine as may be used herein. The gas turbine engine may include a compressor . The compressor compresses an incoming flow of air . The compressor delivers the compressed flow of air to a number of combustor cans . The combustor cans mix the compressed flow of air with a pressurized flow of fuel and ignite the mixture to create a flow of hot combustion gases . Although only a single combustor can is shown the gas turbine engine may include any number of combustor cans . The flow of the hot combustion gases is in turn delivered to a turbine . The flow of the hot combustion gases drives the turbine so as to produce mechanical work. The mechanical work produced in the turbine drives the compressor via a shaft and an external load such as an electrical generator and the like.

The gas turbine engine may use natural gas various types of syngas and or other types of fuels. The gas turbine engine may be any one of a number of different gas turbine engines offered by General Electric Company of Schenectady N.Y. including but not limited to those such as a or a series heavy duty gas turbine engine and the like. The gas turbine engine may have different configurations and may use other types of components. Other types of gas turbine engines also may be used herein. Multiple gas turbine engines other types of turbines and other types of power generation equipment also may be used herein together.

The combustor can may include a head end . A number of fuel nozzles may extend from an end cover not shown to a cap . The combustor can also may be configured as an integrated piece . As described above the integrated piece may include the liner the transition piece and the first stage nozzle. The integrated piece may extend from the head end to an aft end about a first stage bucket blade of the turbine and the like. An impingement sleeve may surround the integrated piece so as to provide a flow of cooling air thereto from the compressor or elsewhere. Other components and other configurations also may be used herein.

The head end may have a substantially non circular configuration . The non circular configuration is not limited to any particular shape. The head end thus may be an oval head end an elliptical head end or any type of substantially non circular head end . Similarly the cap also may have the non circular configurations . As a result the cap may be an oval cap an elliptical cap or any type of substantially non circular cap . Likewise a transition piece of the integrated piece about the head end also may have the non circular configuration before transitioning into any other shape. As a result an oval transition piece an elliptical transition piece or any type of substantially non circular transition piece may be used herein. The combustor cans with the head end having the non circular configuration thus may promote a more efficient transition of the flow of hot combustion gases to the first stage bucket of the turbine with lower total pressure losses. Other components and other configurations also may be used herein.

For example shows a clocked combustor can array with a configuration that may be the reverse of that of the clocked combustor can array of . In this example ten 10 of the combustor cans may be the clocked combustor cans in the first orientation and the remaining six 6 combustor cans may be in their original or second orientation . Any combination of combustor cans in any orientation may be used herein. Other components and other configurations may be used herein.

In use the clocked combustor cans may mitigate interaction between combustor tones and the turbine buckets. As opposed to traditional combustor tuning approaches in which combustor cans of different volumes and lengths may be required for reducing coherence the clocked combustor arrays described herein maintain uniform combustor sizing while varying the clocking of the combustor cans . By altering the circumferential orientation with respect to neighboring combustor cans relative flame characteristics of the individual combustor cans may be effectively changed for reduced coherence.

Likewise entire arrays of combustor cans may be similarly oriented. shows a circumferential array with a number of combustor cans in five 5 around one 1 configuration having fuel nozzles with the clockwise configuration . shows a circumferential array with a number of combustor cans having the five 5 around one 1 orientation with a number of the center fuel nozzles having the counter clockwise orientation while the outer fuel nozzles have the clockwise orientation . shows a circumferential array with a number of combustor cans in the six 6 around zero 0 orientation . In this example the fuel nozzles of certain combustor cans may have the clockwise configuration while the others have the counter clockwise configuration . The circumferential arrays thus may have combustor cans with any configuration and with any type of fuel nozzles and swozzle vanes in any number position or direction.

In use the swozzle vanes may alter the flame characteristics flame to flame interactions and corresponding dynamics behavior in either an individual combustor or a circumferential array. Specifically the direction of the swozzle vanes or other types of vanes may be altered while the remaining hardware configurations may stay substantially unchanged. The use of the swozzle vanes and the like thus may be an alternative and a lower cost approach for coherence breaking as opposed to combustors with different volumes and lengths.

It should be apparent that the foregoing relates only to certain embodiments of the present application and the resultant patent. Numerous changes and modifications may be made herein by one of ordinary skill in the art without departing from the general spirit and scope of the invention as defined by the following claims and the equivalents thereof.

