---

title: Using mobile application logs to measure and maintain accuracy of business information
abstract: Business information about business entities are received from a plurality of aggregate information sources such as business directories. Mobile application logs about user activities are received from a plurality of mobile devices. Business entities related to the user activities are identified based on the mobile application logs. Scored attributes about the related business entities are acquired by applying data analysis rules to the mobile application logs. Accuracy scores are determined for attribute values in the business information based on the acquired scored attributes. Updated business information for the business entities is generated based on the accuracy scores and outputted to users upon request.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08832116&OS=08832116&RS=08832116
owner: Google Inc.
number: 08832116
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120111
---
The disclosure generally relates to the field of data processing in particular to measuring data accuracy of and updating business information in online business information systems.

Information about business entities is available online from aggregate information sources such as business directories. The quality of the business information varies drastically from source to source. Currently the accuracy and up to dateness of business information provided by an aggregate information source is measured primarily based on human belief in the quality of the source of the data. This approach is both unreliable and over general.

The accuracy of business information about various business entities is measured using information acquired from mobile application logs. One aspect of the present disclosure is a computer implemented method for updating business information comprising receiving user activity logs from a plurality of mobile devices of a plurality of different users the user activity logs containing user activity information identifying a plurality of user activity logs relating to a business based at least in part on a first attribute of the business extracting a value for a second attribute of the business from the identified plurality of user activity logs and computing a confidence score for the extracted value of the second attribute and updating a store of business information for the business entity based at least in part on the confidence score for the extracted value of the second attribute.

Another aspect of the present disclosure is a computer system for updating business information comprising a non transitory computer readable storage medium comprising executable computer program code for receiving user activity logs from a plurality of mobile devices of a plurality of different users the user activity logs containing user activity information identifying a plurality of user activity logs relating to a business based at least in part on a first attribute of the business extracting a value for a second attribute of the business from the identified plurality of user activity logs and computing a confidence score for the extracted value of the second attribute and updating a store of business information for the business entity based at least in part on the confidence score for the extracted value of the second attribute and a processor for executing the executable computer program code.

A third aspect of the present disclosure is a non transitory computer readable storage medium storing executable computer program instructions for updating business information the computer program instructions comprising instructions for receiving user activity logs from a plurality of mobile devices of a plurality of different users the user activity logs containing user activity information identifying a plurality of user activity logs relating to a business based at least in part on a first attribute of the business extracting a value for a second attribute of the business from the identified plurality of user activity logs and computing a confidence score for the extracted value of the second attribute and updating a store of business information for the business entity based at least in part on the confidence score for the extracted value of the second attribute.

The features and advantages described in the specification are not all inclusive and in particular many additional features and advantages will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art in view of the drawings specification and claims. Moreover it should be noted that the language used in the specification has been principally selected for readability and instructional purposes and may not have been selected to delineate or circumscribe the disclosed subject matter.

The Figures FIGS. and the following description describe certain embodiments by way of illustration only. One skilled in the art will readily recognize from the following description that alternative embodiments of the structures and methods illustrated herein may be employed without departing from the principles described herein. Reference will now be made in detail to several embodiments examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying figures. It is noted that wherever practicable similar or like reference numbers may be used in the figures and may indicate similar or like functionality.

A mobile device is a portable electronic device with computing capabilities. An example mobile device is a mobile telephone executing for example a Google Android operating system OS . Other examples of the mobile device include a mobile computer system e.g. a tablet computer executing for example a Microsoft Windows compatible OS Apple OS X and or a Linux distribution and a device having computer functionality such as a personal digital assistant PDA . The mobile device executes one or more applications to perform various activities such as placing a telephone call and transmitting a message to a server e.g. a web server or to another mobile device . Examples of the applications include a telephone application and a business information application that provides information about businesses such as restaurants banks retail stores service companies professionals and the like and allows users to comment and rate such businesses. In addition the mobile device includes one or more on device components e.g. a global navigation satellite system receiver such as a GPS receiver that generate additional information related to the location of the mobile device such as its latitude longitude bearing speed and the like. shows only a single mobile device however in practice there will be many such devices in use thousands or even hundreds of thousands or more .

In one embodiment a mobile device records information about the activities performed by the applications also called mobile application logs and periodically transmits the mobile application logs to the business information management server . In one embodiment mobile device notifies users of the types of information that are stored in mobile applications logs and transmitted to business information management server and provides the user the opportunity to opt out of having such information collected and or shared with business information management server . In one embodiment business information management server suitably anonymizes any information shared by mobile device prior to utilizing the information. The collection and transmission of mobile application logs can be performed by either the OS or by a client application. For example the OS of a mobile device may interact with a telephone application running on the mobile device through a supported application programming interface API to retrieve information related to different aspects of a placed telephone call such as the time the call is initiated the time the recipient telephone starts ringing the time the call is connected and the time the call is disconnected the length of the call and store this information in one mobile application log.

As another example the OS of a mobile device may interact with the business information application to retrieve information related to a review message the user submitted in regards to a business such as the name of the subject business entity the content of the review the geographic location of the mobile device where the review message is submitted and the time when the review message is submitted and then store the retrieved information in a mobile application log. The different aspects of an activity are stored in different fields of a mobile application log for that activity. The OS then transmits the recent mobile application logs e.g. within a 24 hour period to the business information management server periodically e.g. at midnight .

The aggregate information sources provide business information about various business entities. The business information includes values of attributes such as business names telephone numbers geographic locations e.g. addresses longitudes and latitudes business hours description of services and products customer reviews and ratings and so forth. Examples of the aggregate information sources include business directory websites and business review websites. The aggregate information sources gather the business information from sources such as business mailing lists government records the official websites of business entities and user inputs.

The business information management server also called the server retrieves and or extracts business information about various business entities from multiple aggregate information sources and receives mobile application logs from the various mobile devices used by a large number of users. For example in a major metropolitan area such as San Francisco or New York the server may receive tens of thousands of mobile application logs every 24 hours. The server measures the accuracy of the business information stored for a given business entity based on the information received in these mobile applications logs and generates a collection of updated business information based on the accuracy measures.

In order to measure the accuracy of stored business information about a business entity the server identifies activities that are related to the business entity e.g. telephone calls made to a listed telephone number of the business entity emails sent to or received from a listed email address of the business entity messages transmitted from a mobile device when the mobile device was proximate to a listed location of the business entity extracts information about the business entity from mobile applications logs of the identified activities and compares the stored business information and the extracted information for matches. The server updates the stored business information for the various business entities based on the information extracted from the related activities. In one embodiment the server provides a web based business search functionality that provides users with accurate and up to date business information of business entities in search results.

The network enables communications among the mobile devices the aggregate information sources and the business information management server . In one embodiment the network uses standard communications technologies and or protocols. Thus the network can include links using technologies such as Ethernet 802.11 worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX G digital subscriber line DSL asynchronous transfer mode ATM InfiniBand PCI Express Advanced Switching etc. Similarly the networking protocols used on the network can include multiprotocol label switching MPLS the transmission control protocol Internet protocol TCP IP the User Datagram Protocol UDP the hypertext transport protocol HTTP the simple mail transfer protocol SMTP the file transfer protocol FTP etc. The data exchanged over the network can be represented using technologies and or formats including the hypertext markup language HTML the extensible markup language XML etc. In addition all or some of links can be encrypted using conventional encryption technologies such as secure sockets layer SSL transport layer security TLS virtual private networks VPNs Internet Protocol security IPsec etc. In another embodiment the entities can use custom and or dedicated data communications technologies instead of or in addition to the ones described above. Depending upon the embodiment the network can also include links to other networks such as the Internet.

The entities shown in are implemented using one or more computers. is a high level block diagram illustrating an example computer . The computer includes at least one processor coupled to a chipset . The chipset includes a memory controller hub and an input output I O controller hub . A memory and a graphics adapter are coupled to the memory controller hub and a display is coupled to the graphics adapter . A storage device keyboard pointing device and network adapter are coupled to the I O controller hub . Other embodiments of the computer have different architectures.

The storage device is a non transitory computer readable storage medium such as a hard drive compact disk read only memory CD ROM DVD or a solid state memory device. The memory holds instructions and data used by the processor . The pointing device is a mouse track ball or other type of pointing device and is used in combination with the keyboard to input data into the computer system . The graphics adapter displays images and other information on the display . The network adapter couples the computer system to one or more computer networks.

The computer is adapted to execute computer program modules for providing functionality described herein. As used herein the term module refers to computer program logic used to provide the specified functionality. Thus a module can be implemented in hardware firmware and or software. In one embodiment program modules are stored on the storage device loaded into the memory and executed by the processor .

The types of computers used by the entities of can vary depending upon the embodiment and the processing power required by the entity. For example the business information management server might comprise multiple blade servers working together to provide the functionality described herein. The computers can lack some of the components described above such as keyboards graphics adapters and displays . In addition one or more of the functions of the business information management server can also be executed in a cloud computing environment. As used herein cloud computing refers to a style of computing in which dynamically scalable and often virtualized resources are provided as a service over the Internet.

The communication module communicates with multiple mobile devices to retrieve mobile application logs about activities performed thereon. In addition the communication module communicates with multiple aggregate information sources to retrieve business information about various business entities. Additionally or alternatively the communication module receives the business information from the aggregate information sources e.g. uploaded by the aggregate information sources to a website hosted by the communication module .

The data analysis module analyzes the mobile application logs to recognize instances of business entities appearing in the application logs. The data analysis module identifies business entities appearing in the mobile application logs by matching information in the mobile application logs with business information about various business entities. Depending on factors such as the nature of the mobile application performing the activity recorded in the mobile application log e.g. a telephone application versus a review posted in the business information application the nature of the activity e.g. a telephone call versus a review the data analysis module compares different fields of the mobile application log with different attribute values of the business information to identify matches.

For example for a mobile application log associated with a telephone application the data analysis module compares the destination telephone number of the telephone call with the stored telephone numbers of business entities and identifies a business entity with a matching telephone number as the business entity related to the telephone call.

As another example for a mobile application log for a business information application regarding a user review of a business the data analysis module compares the name of the subject business entity with the names of stored business entities and identifies a business entity with a matching business name as the business entity related to the review message. In one embodiment in order to enhance efficiency the data analysis module only compares information in the mobile application logs with information about business entities that are located within a predetermined radius around the device location where the activity took place e.g. within 10 miles .

The data analysis module may identify and extract information from the mobile application logs such as telephone numbers and business names using various technologies such as pattern matching tag recognition and or natural language processing. The data analysis module may also compare the extracted information with stored business information to identify related business entities. The data analysis module may normalize the extracted information e.g. by removing symbols such as and from telephone numbers converting uppercase characters in addresses into corresponding lowercase characters before conducting the comparisons. The information extracted from a mobile application log hereinafter called the instance data of that mobile application log is stored along with the identity of a business entity related to that instance data.

The data analysis module processes the instance data by applying a set of data analysis rules for measuring the accuracy of the business information to be found in the instance data. Given the instance data the module generates scored instance attributes for the business entity. A scored instance attribute includes an attribute e.g. a telephone number a business location of the business entity an attribute value and a confidence score measuring a confidence in that attribute value. For example the confidence score can be a continuous value ranging from 0 to 1 with a score of 0 indicating a very low confidence e.g. the attribute value is probably inaccurate and a score of 1 indicating a very high confidence e.g. the attribute value is almost certainly accurate .

A data analysis rule describes a set of operations for extracting a given attribute and attribute value from the instance data and generating a confidence score for the attribute value. A data analysis rule may be specific to the mobile application logs for certain activities and or mobile applications or other conditions. The data analysis rules can be manually created based on observed activity patterns automatically generated by applying machine learning algorithms to a training corpus or a combination of both.

In order to filter out abnormal user activities e.g. spam review messages data analysis rules are generally applied to multiple mobile application logs received from multiple mobile devices . For example a business location rule may perform the following operations 

The foregoing business location rule is based on the premise that users tend to submit business reviews using their mobile devices while in or near the subject business entities. If a majority of the reviews of a business entity were submitted in geographic locations near each other then such locations are likely proximate to the business location and thus can be used to infer or confirm the business location.

Another example data analysis rule infers a business schedule e.g. the operating hours for the business based on the times when the review messages were sent. This rule is based on the premise that users tend to submit reviews at or shortly after the time they visit a business. From the overall distribution of review times the data analysis rule can infer the most likely times and or days of week that the business operates.

In addition to inferring different types of attributes and attribute values the data analysis module can also generate a confidence score for each attribute value. The confidence score for an attribute value may be determined based on factors such as the number of mobile application logs or data instances from which the attribute value is inferred. For example the larger the number of mobile application logs an attribute value is acquired from the higher the confidence score for that attribute value.

A third example of a data analysis rule is a rule that measures the likelihood of a telephone number being an operating telephone number based on the durations of calls made to the telephone number. In this case the data analysis module identifies instances of telephone calls made to a selected business entity and the duration of each call. The data analysis module generates a histogram or other distribution of call durations for example tabulating calls between 0 15 seconds 15 30 seconds 30 60 seconds and so forth. If most calls are longer than a threshold value e.g. 30 seconds the rule assigns a high confidence score or boosts an existing confidence score for the value of the telephone number. Otherwise if most of the calls do not connect or have very short durations then the inference is that the telephone number is not a valid number for the business e.g. wrong telephone number disconnected number and the rule assigns a low confidence score or reduces an existing confidence score for the value of the telephone number.

Because the communication module periodically e.g. daily receives up to date mobile application logs the data analysis rules can be periodically applied to obtain and or maintain up do date business information. For example the business location rule can be periodically applied to up to date mobile application logs to obtain and or maintain up to date business location information and to track business location changes based on up to date information on the location of devices providing reviews of the business.

The business information accuracy measurement and update module update module measures the accuracy of stored business information retrieved from the aggregate information sources and updates the business information based on the information retrieved from the mobile application logs. Business information about a business entity includes values of various attributes of the business entity. The update module measures the accuracy and up to dateness of stored business information by determining accuracy scores for the stored business information. The accuracy score for a stored quantum of business information can be based on the confidence score of the corresponding scored instance attribute determined from the mobile applications logs. In one embodiment the accuracy score is the same as the confidence score.

In addition to the scored instance attribute information acquired from the mobile application logs the update module may take into account other factors in determining the accuracy score for the stored quantum of business information. For example the update module may compare the stored quantum of business information with information extracted from the official website of the associated business entity and boost reduce the accuracy score for that stored quantum of business information if they match mismatch.

The update module updates stored business information and adds new business information about business entities based on scored instance attributes i.e. attributes attribute values and confidence scores acquired from the mobile application logs. The update module updates the stored business information by replacing stored attribute values with low accuracy scores e.g. lower than a threshold value with corresponding instance attribute values i.e. obtained from the mobile application logs having higher confidence scores or having confidence scores that are higher than a threshold value. In addition if a quantum of stored business information from the aggregate information sources is missing the update module adds the corresponding instance attribute value obtained from the mobile application logs if the confidence score for that instance attribute value is high e.g. higher than a threshold value and sets the accuracy score for the stored quantum of business information equal to the confidence score.

Because the scored instance attributes acquired from the mobile application logs are based on recent user activities and are cycled rapidly e.g. daily the information is likely to be more accurate and up to date than the stored business information provided by the aggregate information sources which is typically updated on much longer time scales e.g. every six months . Accordingly the scored instance attributes obtained from the mobile application logs can be used to measure the accuracy of the corresponding stored business information e.g. telephone numbers addresses received from the aggregate information sources and or to update the stored business information.

The update module can provide a service such as a local business search service or a mapping service with accurate and up to date business information. The update module uses the accuracy scores as a measure of the accuracy and up to dateness of the stored business information and can provide users with the most accurate and up to date stored business information.

The data store stores data used by the business information management server . Examples of such data include business information retrieved from the aggregate information sources mobile application logs received from the mobile devices data analysis rules scored attributes acquired from the mobile application logs and accuracy scores to name a few. The data store may be a relational database or any other type of database.

The server receives and stores business information about various business entities from the aggregate information sources and receives the mobile application logs from a plurality of mobile devices . In a typical embodiment the server receives thousands potentially tens or hundreds of thousands of logs during each update cycle. The mobile logs describe different aspects of user activities that took place on the various mobile devices since the previous update. The server identifies business entities related to the user activities by matching and or identifying business information with information in the mobile application logs and acquires scored instance attributes attributes attribute values and confidence scores for the business entities by applying applicable data analysis rules to the data in the mobile application logs e.g. telephone call histories .

The server determines accuracy scores for the stored business information obtained from the aggregate information sources based on the confidence scores determined for the corresponding scored instance attributes obtained from the mobile application logs and selectively updates the stored business information based on the accuracy and confidence scores. At some subsequent point the server outputs the stored business information to users as requested. The output can be presented in various forms for example on a web page in a client application on a mobile device through a client application in electronic business card format e.g. vCard in RFC 2426 hCard and the like .

Some portions of above description describe the embodiments in terms of algorithmic processes or operations. These algorithmic descriptions and representations are commonly used by those skilled in the data processing arts to convey the substance of their work effectively to others skilled in the art. These operations while described functionally computationally or logically are understood to be implemented by computer programs comprising instructions for execution by a processor or equivalent electrical circuits microcode or the like. Furthermore it has also proven convenient at times to refer to these arrangements of functional operations as modules without loss of generality. The described operations and their associated modules may be embodied in software firmware hardware or any combinations thereof.

As used herein any reference to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular element feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment. The appearances of the phrase in one embodiment in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

Some embodiments may be described using the expression coupled and connected along with their derivatives. It should be understood that these terms are not intended as synonyms for each other. For example some embodiments may be described using the term connected to indicate that two or more elements are in direct physical or electrical contact with each other. In another example some embodiments may be described using the term coupled to indicate that two or more elements are in direct physical or electrical contact. The term coupled however may also mean that two or more elements are not in direct contact with each other but yet still co operate or interact with each other. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

As used herein the terms comprises comprising includes including has having or any other variation thereof are intended to cover a non exclusive inclusion. For example a process method article or apparatus that comprises a list of elements is not necessarily limited to only those elements but may include other elements not expressly listed or inherent to such process method article or apparatus. Further unless expressly stated to the contrary or refers to an inclusive or and not to an exclusive or. For example a condition A or B is satisfied by any one of the following A is true or present and B is false or not present A is false or not present and B is true or present and both A and B are true or present .

In addition use of the a or an are employed to describe elements and components of the embodiments herein. This is done merely for convenience and to give a general sense of the disclosure. This description should be read to include one or at least one and the singular also includes the plural unless it is obvious that it is meant otherwise.

Upon reading this disclosure those of skill in the art will appreciate still additional alternative structural and functional designs for a system and a process for measuring the accuracy of business information about various business entities using scored attributes acquired from mobile application logs. Thus while particular embodiments and applications have been illustrated and described it is to be understood that the present invention is not limited to the precise construction and components disclosed herein and that various modifications changes and variations which will be apparent to those skilled in the art may be made in the arrangement operation and details of the method and apparatus disclosed herein without departing from the spirit and scope as defined in the appended claims.

