---

title: Washer assembly for mounting on irregular surfaces
abstract: A washer assembly includes a threaded fastener head engaging portion and a surface engaging portion. The threaded fastener head engaging portion includes a head engaging face configured to lie in a plane substantially perpendicular to a longitudinal length of a threaded fastener passed through an opening at an axial center of the threaded fastener head engaging portion. The surface engaging portion includes a slot and a surface engaging face. The slot extends through the surface engaging portion along a line extending through an axial center of the surface engaging portion. An adjustable interface is defined between the surface engaging portion and the threaded fastener head engaging portion to enable the slot to receive the threaded fastener such that the surface engaging face lies parallel to a surface that is not perpendicular to the longitudinal length of the threaded fastener.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08790059&OS=08790059&RS=08790059
owner: The Johns Hopkins University
number: 08790059
owner_city: Baltimore
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120327
---
This invention was made with government support under contract number N00024 03 D 6606 awarded by the Department of the Navy. The government has certain rights in the invention

Example embodiments generally relate to fastening devices and more particularly relate to a washer assembly for mounting on irregular surfaces.

Washers are devices that are in relatively common use in combination with fastening devices such as screws nuts bolts and or the like. A washer is typically a thin plate often round with a hole typically in its center through which a threaded fastener e.g. a screw nut or bolt is passed. The washer is often used to distribute the load of the threaded fastener or act as a spacer wear pad locking device vibration reducer corrosion preventer inhibitor and or the like. The outer diameter of the washer i.e. the edge of the circular shaped plate is larger than and in some cases at least about twice long as the inner diameter of the washer i.e. the diameter of the hole in the center .

Washers are most commonly flat round discs that have round holes in their centers. The round hole in the center of a washer is often slightly larger than the diameter of the threaded fastener with which the washer is to be used or is at least smaller than a diameter of the head of the threaded fastener or a nut used in connection with the threaded fastener . If the diameter of the hole in the center of the washer is too large the entire head of a screw nut or bolt with which the washer is being used may pass entirely through the hole when a load is applied. A washer is commonly in contact with a surface that lies in a plane substantially perpendicular to the longitudinal length of the threaded fastener with which the washer is being used.

There are some specialized washers that do not have the common profile of a flat round disc. These washers may be used in specific situations to perform corresponding specific functions or may be used with somewhat irregular surfaces. For example split washers may be similar to a flat washer except that there is a split extending radially from the hole in the center of the washer to the outer diameter of the washer. The portions of the washer on either side of the split may be at different elevations. Such a washer may be useful for applying a spring force. Wave washers may have an undulating or wavy profile and conical washers may be slightly cone shaped to also provide a spring force when they are employed. However each of these washers is typically employed in situations where the washer is applied to a surface that lies substantially perpendicular to the longitudinal length of the threaded fastener with which they are used. Thus these washers may not function properly if they are attempted to be used in connection with a surface that does not lie perpendicular to the longitudinal length of the threaded fastener with which they are used. Accordingly damage may be inflicted on such a surface or the fastener may not function properly.

Accordingly in order to enable the provision of a washer assembly that can be used on irregular surfaces including surfaces that are angled such that they do not lie in a plane that is substantially perpendicular to the longitudinal length of the threaded fastener with which they are employed some example embodiments may provide a slotted spherical washer assembly. The slotted spherical washer assembly may include a surface engaging portion and a threaded fastener head engaging portion that are enabled to fit with one another over a relatively large range of surface angles by employing a slot in the surface engaging portion.

In one example embodiment a washer assembly is provided. The washer assembly may include a threaded fastener head engaging portion and a surface engaging portion. The threaded fastener head engaging portion may include a head engaging face configured to lie in a plane substantially perpendicular to a longitudinal length of a threaded fastener passed through an opening at an axial center of the threaded fastener head engaging portion. The surface engaging portion may include a slot and a surface engaging face. The slot may extend through the surface engaging portion along a line extending through an axial center of the surface engaging portion. An adjustable interface is defined between the surface engaging portion and the threaded fastener head engaging portion to enable the slot to receive the threaded fastener such that the surface engaging face lies parallel to a surface that is not perpendicular to the longitudinal length of the threaded fastener.

In another example embodiment a fastening device is provided. The fastening device may include a threaded fastener including a head disposed at one end thereof and a washer assembly including a threaded fastener head engaging portion and a surface engaging portion. The threaded fastener head engaging portion may include a head engaging face configured to lie in a plane substantially perpendicular to a longitudinal length of the threaded fastener responsive to passing the threaded fastener through an opening at an axial center of the threaded fastener head engaging portion. The head engaging face may engage the head or a nut of the threaded fastener. The surface engaging portion may include a slot and a surface engaging face. The slot may extend through the surface engaging portion along a line extending through an axial center of the surface engaging portion. An adjustable interface may be defined between the surface engaging portion and the threaded fastener head engaging portion to enable the slot to receive the threaded fastener such that the surface engaging face lies parallel to a surface that is not perpendicular to the longitudinal length of the threaded fastener.

Some example embodiments may improve the ability of threaded fasteners to be employed over irregular e.g. angled surfaces.

Some example embodiments now will be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which some but not all example embodiments are shown. Indeed the examples described and pictured herein should not be construed as being limiting as to the scope applicability or configuration of the present disclosure. Rather these example embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will satisfy applicable legal requirements. Like reference numerals refer to like elements throughout.

Some example embodiments may improve the ability of a threaded fastener to be used in a situation where a longitudinal length of the threaded fastener is not perpendicular to the surface with which the threaded fastener is being employed by providing an adjustable interface between two portions of a washer assembly. illustrates a side view of a slotted spherical washer assembly according to an example embodiment. As shown in the slotted spherical washer assembly may include a surface engaging portion and a threaded fastener head engaging portion . The surface engaging portion may be configured to enable the surface engaging portion to conform to i.e. lie parallel to a plane of a surface that is not substantially perpendicular to a longitudinal length of a threaded fastener . The threaded fastener of this example is a lag bolt with a hex head. However a head of the threaded fastener could take any of a number of other forms in alternative embodiments. Moreover in some embodiments the threaded fastener could be threaded at both of its ends and thus rather than having any head one or more nuts may be employed in connection with the threaded ends. Thus as used herein it should be appreciated that the head may be functionally equivalent to a nut. As such wherever the term head is used it should be appreciated that a nut could be substituted in an alternative embodiment. As shown in the head of the threaded fastener may engage directly or indirectly e.g. via one or more other washers the threaded fastener head engaging portion while the surface engaging portion engages the surface .

As shown in the surface engaging portion includes a surface engaging face which is generally configured to engage the surface such that the surface engaging face and the surface generally lie parallel and in contact with each other. The surface engaging portion also includes a concave face that forms an opposite face with respect to the surface engaging face . The concave face and the surface engaging face may be connected to each other at their respective radial limits by a sidewall that is substantially perpendicular to the surface engaging face . A slot may be defined in the surface engaging portion to extend from the concave face to the surface engaging face along a line extending through a mutual axial center of each of the concave face and the surface engaging face . The slot may have a consistent width over the entire length of the slot . In some embodiments the width of the slot may be slightly larger than e.g. by less than 1 mm the diameter of the threaded fastener and at least less than the diameter of the head . The length may be at least three times the width dimension and may be longer to give greater ranges of angles that can be supported using the slotted spherical washer assembly . Although the slot has a substantially rectangular shape in it should be appreciated that the slot could alternatively have other shapes including an oval shape or even a circular shape as long as the size of the oval or circular shape is small enough to prevent the threaded fastener head engaging portion from passing through the slot and there is sufficient surface area on the concave face to support engagement with the threaded fastener head engaging portion .

Meanwhile as shown in the threaded fastener head engaging portion includes a head engaging face . The threaded fastener head engaging portion is generally configured such that the head engaging face engages the head or a nut of the threaded fastener and lies in a plane that is substantially perpendicular to a longitudinal length of the threaded fastener when the threaded fastener and the threaded fastener head engaging portion are coupled together. The threaded fastener head engaging portion also includes a convex face that forms an opposite face with respect to the head engaging face . The convex face and the head engaging face may be connected to each other at their respective radial limits by a sidewall that is substantially perpendicular to the head engaging face . A fastener receiver may be provided as an orifice defined in the threaded fastener head engaging portion to extend from the convex face to the head engaging face along a line extending through a mutual axial center of each of the convex face and the head engaging face . The fastener receiver be generally circular and may have a diameter that is slightly larger than e.g. by less than 1 mm the diameter of the threaded fastener and at least less than the diameter of the head . In an example embodiment a diameter of the surface engaging portion and the threaded fastener head engaging portion may be substantially equal.

The concave face may extend inwardly toward the surface engaging face by an amount D that is substantially equal to the degree to which the convex face extends outwardly away from the head engaging face . In other words a depth at an axial center of the concave face may be substantially equal to an amount of protrusion at an axial center of the convex face . Accordingly when the convex face is inserted into the concave face the concave face and the convex face may substantially fit together such that the concave face and the convex face contact one another over substantially all of the area over which the faces are proximate to each other. In some embodiments the amount D may be selected and therefore also the thickness of the surface engaging portion and the threaded fastener head engaging portion may be selected to define a range of surface angles over which the slotted spherical washer assembly is useful. The length of the slot may also be lengthened in some cases in order to increase the range of angles over which the slotted spherical washer assembly may be useable. In this regard for example a typical spherical washer may only be able to compensate for surface irregularity up to about 4 degrees. However the slotted spherical washer assembly of may be enabled to compensate for a surface that is up to about 15 degrees out of perpendicularity with respect to the longitudinal length of the threaded fastener by virtue of the length of the slot and therefore the ability to offset the surface engaging portion from the threaded fastener head engaging portion . By selecting deeper concave and more bulbous convex surfaces in connection with a relatively longer slot even greater angled surfaces than 15 degrees may be accommodated in some embodiments.

By passing the threaded fastener through the fastener receiver and then passing the threaded fastener through the slot such that the surface engaging face is proximate to the head and the convex face is proximate to the concave face the slotted spherical washer assembly may be made ready for employment in connection with engagement with a surface. By generally aligning the sidewall of the surface engaging portion with the sidewall of the threaded fastener head engaging portion an equivalent of a conventional washer may be achieved. In other words by placing the sidewalls in registration with each other the surface engaging portion and the threaded fastener head engaging portion may combine to form a washer that engages a surface that is substantially perpendicular to the longitudinal length of the threaded fastener . However as surface angles are encountered that do not lie substantially perpendicular to the longitudinal length of the threaded fastener are encountered the surface engaging face of the surface engaging portion may lie substantially parallel to and in contact with such a surface by offsetting the sidewalls of the surface engaging portion and the threaded fastener head engaging portion so that they are no longer aligned. In this regard for example the threaded fastener may fit through the slot of the surface engaging portion at a portion of the slot that is separated from the axial center of the surface engaging portion as shown in which illustrates a perspective view of the slotted spherical washer assembly according to an example embodiment. The degree of offset of the threaded fastener from the axial center of the surface engaging portion within the slot may be adjusted in order to correspondingly adjust an amount of offset between a plane in which the surface engaging surface lies and a plane in which the head engaging surface lies.

As such the convex surface and the concave surface combine to form a flexible joint or adjustable interface between the surface engaging portion and the threaded fastener head engaging portion to enable the surface engaging portion to be offset relative to the threaded fastener head engaging portion . The offset may be facilitated by the slot enabling the threaded fastener to be received at a plurality of angles between the surface engaging face and the longitudinal length of the threaded fastener . The offset of the surface engaging portion may enable the surface engaging face to lie substantially parallel to the surface which may not be perpendicular to the longitudinal length of the threaded fastener while the head engaging face of the threaded fastener head engaging portion lies in a plane that is substantially perpendicular to the longitudinal length of the threaded fastener . In some cases the offset may be greater than 4 degrees or even greater than 15 degrees.

Accordingly the slot may be utilized to enable the surface engaging portion to receive the threaded fastener at a location other than the axial center of the surface engaging portion . Engagement in this fashion may enable the surface engaging face of the surface engaging portion to lie in a plane that is not necessarily parallel to the plane in which the head engaging face lies while engaging an irregular surface. The provision of the slot in combination with the design of the convex surface and the concave surface to form the flexible joint enables the functions of a washer to be performed e.g. load distribution space provision corrosion prevention and or the like even when used in connection with surfaces that are not perpendicular to the longitudinal length of the threaded fastener.

In some embodiments one instance of the slotted spherical washer assembly may be used proximate to the head of the threaded fastener as shown in . However in other embodiments an instance of the slotted spherical washer assembly may be employed also or alternatively at a distal end of the threaded fastener proximate to a nut that engages the threaded fastener instead of proximate to the head . In such an embodiment the head engaging surface of the threaded fastener head engaging portion may engage the nut in a similar manner to that described above in relation to engagement with the head . illustrates an example in which two instances of the slotted spherical washer assembly are employed with respect to a single instance of the threaded fastener so that two surfaces at different angles can be effectively engaged by each corresponding instance of the slotted spherical washer assembly proximate to respective longitudinal ends of the threaded fastener.

Many modifications and other embodiments of the inventions set forth herein will come to mind to one skilled in the art to which these inventions pertain having the benefit of the teachings presented in the foregoing descriptions and the associated drawings. Therefore it is to be understood that the inventions are not to be limited to the specific embodiments disclosed and that modifications and other embodiments are intended to be included within the scope of the appended claims. Moreover although the foregoing descriptions and the associated drawings describe exemplary embodiments in the context of certain exemplary combinations of elements and or functions it should be appreciated that different combinations of elements and or functions may be provided by alternative embodiments without departing from the scope of the appended claims. In this regard for example different combinations of elements and or functions than those explicitly described above are also contemplated as may be set forth in some of the appended claims. In cases where advantages benefits or solutions to problems are described herein it should be appreciated that such advantages benefits and or solutions may be applicable to some example embodiments but not necessarily all example embodiments. Thus any advantages benefits or solutions described herein should not be thought of as being critical required or essential to all embodiments or to that which is claimed herein. Although specific terms are employed herein they are used in a generic and descriptive sense only and not for purposes of limitation.

