---

title: Enabling a mobile broadband hotspot by an auxiliary radio
abstract: There is provided a method of enabling a mobile broadband hotspot by an auxiliary radio. By utilizing a commonly available auxiliary radio, such as a Bluetooth radio, hotspot connectivity using a primary radio, such as Wi-Fi, can be readily enabled. Accordingly, device connections, guest access, and device disconnections can be easily requested on demand from a mobile broadband hotspot. Additionally, the mobile broadband hotspot may be configured to enable or disable connections using a pre-determined schedule. The pre-determined schedule may provide Internet access only when necessary, such as during scheduled device updates.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09220065&OS=09220065&RS=09220065
owner: Smith Micro Software, Inc.
number: 09220065
owner_city: Aliso Viejo
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120116
---
Internet connectivity enables access to social networking personal finances entertainment news shopping and other essential goods services and information. With the proliferation of mobile devices such as smartphones tablet computers laptop computers and other devices there is a corresponding need to provide Internet connectivity to these mobile devices.

Currently there is a diverse ecosystem of wireless broadband devices to provide Internet connectivity including integrated and external mobile broadband cards mobile hotspot devices wireless routers broadband modems and others. Generally such wireless broadband devices may provide WWAN wireless wide area network Internet access to other devices through a WLAN wireless local area network hotspot. For example a device such as a smartphone can be configured to function as a mobile broadband hotspot by enabling an access point mode often referred to as Wi Fi tethering.

However activating the access point mode of a mobile broadband hotspot often requires multiple steps. For example to set a smartphone to access point mode a user must typically obtain physical possession of the smartphone navigate through a hierarchy of menu options and set various security options and hotspot parameters prior to enabling the access point mode. Thus it may be difficult to provide Internet access to other devices due to the numerous steps required for enabling an access point mode.

The present disclosure is directed to enabling a mobile broadband hotspot by an auxiliary radio substantially as shown in and or described in connection with at least one of the figures as set forth more completely in the claims.

The following description contains specific information pertaining to implementations in the present disclosure. One skilled in the art will recognize that the present disclosure may be implemented in a manner different from that specifically discussed herein. The drawings in the present application and their accompanying detailed description are directed to merely exemplary implementations. Unless noted otherwise like or corresponding elements among the figures may be indicated by like or corresponding reference numerals. Moreover the drawings and illustrations in the present application are generally not to scale and are not intended to correspond to actual relative dimensions.

Mobile broadband hotspot can be any type of mobile device with the ability to function as a hotspot. For example mobile broadband hotspot can be a smartphone a personal digital assistant PDA or a tablet personal computer PC . In the implementation shown in mobile broadband hotspot can be a smartphone with a physically integrated display . Each of displays and can be a liquid crystal display LCD monitor with a touch sensitive surface. Thus displays and may serve as input devices as well. In other instances other input devices may be operatively connected to mobile broadband hotspot and client devices and . In alternative implementations mobile broadband hotspot can be a dedicated hotspot device for example which may or may not contain a display . Each of terminal devices and can be a mobile or fixed device including a smartphone a tablet an in dash device for vehicles or an electrical or household appliance such as a television or a refrigerator for example. Displays and may be optionally physically integrated with terminal devices and respectively.

Each of processors and can be any type of processing hardware such as a central processing unit. Each of storage mediums and may be any type of non volatile data storage device such as a flash drive with several gigabytes of storage capacity. Each of APIs and is the same API. Modules and are software applications that can be executed by processors and respectively in order to control the functionalities of mobile broadband hotspot and terminal devices and . Modules and are also implemented in conformance to the API thereby allowing mobile broadband hotspot and terminal devices and to communicate with each other through API calls.

LTE transceiver may be a radio transceiver comprising digital logic components and embedded software. LTE transceiver may comprise a radio transceiver capable of wirelessly receiving and transmitting data through the LTE frequencies. Each of Bluetooth transceivers and may be an auxiliary radio transceiver containing digital logic components and embedded software. Bluetooth transceiver may be used to transmit requests to activate or deactivate the access point of mobile broadband hotspot to Bluetooth transceiver . Each of Wi Fi transceivers and may be another radio transceiver containing digital logic components and embedded software. Wi Fi transceivers and may be used to receive and transmit data through Wi Fi frequencies.

Base station tower may represent a cellular tower capable of wirelessly relaying data between packet network and mobile broadband hotspot . Packet network may represent a public network such as the Internet. Base station tower may exchange data with LTE transceiver of mobile broadband hotspot at LTE frequencies and at 4G speeds through link . Link may be a wireless or wired connection link. In other implementations base station tower may transmit data using Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX frequencies or 3G technologies such as UMTS HSDPA HSPA HSPA EVDO Rev0 EVDO RevA or other frequencies. Accordingly mobile broadband hotspot may contain a WiMAX or GSM or CDMA transceiver or other transceivers.

Mobile broadband hotspot using Wi Fi transceiver may transmit data obtained through LTE transceiver to nearby mobile devices. However mobile broadband hotspot may only transmit data through a Wi Fi transceiver when it is in access point mode. Terminal device may therefore set mobile broadband hotspot to access point mode by transmitting a request to mobile broadband hotspot to activate the access point mode. The request to activate the access point mode of mobile broadband hotspot may be sent through link which can be a wireless Bluetooth link. The request may be transmitted at Bluetooth frequencies from Bluetooth transceiver . Processor of mobile broadband hotspot may be configured to detect using an auxiliary radio transceiver the request to activate the access point mode from terminal device . The auxiliary radio transceiver in this implementation is Bluetooth transceiver . In response to receiving the request to activate the access point mode from terminal device processor may be configured to enable the access point mode of mobile broadband hotspot . Once mobile broadband hotspot is set to access point mode processor may be configured to establish a connection with a connecting device using another radio transceiver such as Wi Fi transceiver .

For example the connecting device may be terminal device . Terminal device may indicate through its Bluetooth activation request that terminal device desires to connect to mobile broadband hotspot . However as described later in other implementations the activation request may direct mobile broadband hotspot to connect with another mobile device such as terminal device . In other implementations an API call may be made to mobile broadband hotspot after the activation request is sent. The API call may request that mobile broadband hotspot accept connections with other mobile devices.

In order to ensure a secure connection the establishing of the connection may include performing a successful authentication between the mobile broadband hotspot and the connecting device such as terminal device . The authentication may include a series of steps executed by both mobile broadband hotspot and terminal device to ensure that the devices are authorized to connect to each other as known in the art. In one implementation the client securely passes a Pre Shared Key PSK to the hotspot for security purposes which is used to both authenticate and secure the wireless channel for example link and link . The authentication ensures that not just any device within the vicinity of mobile broadband hotspot can connect to mobile broadband hotspot . Of course in other implementations mobile broadband hotspot may also be configured to skip authentication and security with connecting devices. Once a connection is established mobile broadband hotspot and terminal device may exchange data between Wi Fi transceiver and through link which is a wireless Wi Fi link.

Mobile broadband hotspot may recognize the request to activate the access point mode from terminal device due to a prior existing pairing. If unpaired mobile broadband hotspot may not recognize or trust a request to activate the access point mode from terminal device . Thus processor may have been configured to perform a pairing process with terminal device prior to detecting activation requests from terminal device . Thus mobile broadband hotspot can be configured to enable access point mode only from mobile devices that have already been previously paired.

As previously stated the connecting device may not necessarily be the device that sends the Bluetooth request to activate the access point mode of mobile broadband hotspot. As shown in terminal device cannot set mobile broadband hotspot to access point mode because terminal device does not include an auxiliary Bluetooth transceiver. However terminal device after enabling an access point mode of mobile broadband hotspot may further send an API call to mobile broadband hotspot using API requesting that mobile broadband hotspot connect with terminal device . Upon recognizing the API call processor may be configured to accept a connection with terminal device . Once a connection with terminal device is established mobile broadband hotspot and terminal device may exchange data between Wi Fi transceivers and through link which is a wireless Wi Fi link. Prior to connecting with terminal device mobile broadband hotspot may perform an authentication with terminal device . In other implementations terminal device may connect to mobile broadband hotspot and allow other devices to connect to mobile broadband hotspot . Thus a terminal device that is already paired and configured to communicate with mobile broadband hotspot may also easily direct mobile broadband hotspot to provide Internet access to other guest devices.

Terminal device can also easily and quickly deactivate the access point mode of mobile broadband hotspot . Using Bluetooth transceiver terminal device may send a request to deactivate the access point mode. Processor of mobile broadband hotspot may be configured to detect using Bluetooth transceiver the request to deactivate the access point mode from terminal device . Processor may then be configured to disable the access point mode of mobile broadband hotspot in response to receiving the request to deactivate. Processor may then be further configured to terminate using Wi Fi transceiver the connection established between the connected device which may be terminal device . When terminal device deactivates the access point mode of mobile broadband hotspot all other devices connected to mobile broadband hotspot may also be disconnected. In another implementation the request to deactivate the access point mode may be made over the Wi FI connection which is sent from module through transceiver and is thus received by transceiver and processed by processor .

Besides establishing hotspot connectivity module of terminal device or module of terminal device may also be utilized to enable or provide information and services sourced from the owner of mobile broadband hotspot a network service provider or a third party. For example module may provide detailed information on display regarding a session connection with mobile broadband hotspot including bandwidth data usage signal strength remaining battery and other details.

The owner of mobile broadband hotspot may also provide permissions to access services or data stores accessible from mobile broadband hotspot or packet network . Thus for example terminal device may be enabled to stream music or movies stored on network storage or view a collection of photos hosted on server which may be a third party photo sharing website. Accordingly by simply connecting to mobile broadband hotspot terminal device may access various local and remote data stores and services as permitted by the owner of mobile broadband hotspot .

Other parties may also provide information and services through module or . For example a mobile data service provider may provide a means for viewing and paying individual shared one time or split data plans or to purchase applications or other services. The owner of mobile broadband hotspot may also set parameters in regards to individual device billing for example granting free access to terminal device but requiring terminal device to pay for a portion of a data plan. The mobile data service provider might also provide messages offers and services from associated business partners. In other implementations third party advertisers might present offers promotions trials or advertisements to partially or wholly subsidize the data plan.

In some implementations module and may be installed and executed as a resident application on terminal device and respectively. For example module and may be downloaded and installed from mobile broadband hotspot or server which may be a server belonging to the mobile data service provider or another third party. As a result terminal devices and may continuously access the data sources and services provided in the above exemplary sessions with mobile broadband hotspot even if terminal devices and are outside the range of mobile broadband hotspot . Thus the owner of mobile broadband hotspot may extend data access permissions to media on network storage and photos on server even if terminal devices and are not within range of mobile broadband hotspot .

In screenshot terminal device of may be attempting to pair with mobile broadband hotspot of . Applet window may be any type of applet window including from a web browser. Applet window may present applet message a text message showing mobile broadband hotspot named My Hotspot pairing with terminal device My Device . Pairing may be performed according to any method known in the art.

Next screenshot presents digital icon which is associated with a program stored in storage medium . A user may select digital icon with cursor to execute the program thus activating an access point mode of mobile broadband hotspot . Digital icon may be created by module of after terminal device successfully pairs with mobile broadband hotspot . While the examples shown in focus on a graphical user interface where a user may select icons using a cursor for example by a mouse or touch screen any suitable input method or activation rule may be supported. For example terminal device may include motion sensors allowing the user to shake the device or perform gestures to initiate various functions such as activating the access point mode of mobile broadband hotspot . In another example an in dash device might automatically activate the access point mode of mobile broadband hotspot if a GPS of the in dash device detects proximity to the driver s garage thereby automatically turning on the hotspot when the user returns home.

As shown in screenshot applet window is presented after the user selects digital icon . Activation button may then be selected with cursor to direct terminal device to send an access point mode activation request to mobile broadband hotpot . Additionally to provide guest access activation button may be selected to direct mobile broadband hotspot to accept connections from terminal device or Terminal B . Alternatively activation button may be selected to direct terminal device to connect to a different hotspot that is not mobile broadband hotspot . In another implementation when the user selects digital icon with cursor the steps performed by could be done automatically thus resulting in a one click operation for the user to gain internet access from terminal device . In yet another implementation an application such a web browser running on device may trigger the activation of the mobile hotspot if it detects that the device does not have Internet connectivity when the user tries to connect to an Internet web site.

As shown in screenshot applet window may transition to applet window after the user selects activation button with cursor . Applet message indicates that mobile broadband hotspot is set to access point mode. Applet message may contain additional information including a service set identifier SSID a signal strength level indicator which shows WWAN signal strength of base station and link and a battery power level of mobile broadband hotspot . Processor of may also be configured to display applet message on display . In other implementations applet window may also contain additional indicators about the WWAN connection such as 2G 3G 4G coverage indication a roaming network indicator and other information about transceiver base station and packet network .

In screenshot digital icon is again displayed on display of . As described earlier digital icon may be used to send an activation request to mobile broadband hotspot of to set it to an access point mode. The user may thus select digital icon to send the activation request.

In screenshot applet window appears after user selects digital icon in screenshot . Once again activation buttons and are shown in applet window and may also provide similar functionality as activation buttons and from . The user may select activation button to set mobile broadband hotspot to an access point mode for connecting a guest device. Activation button may be configured so that the connecting device can be terminal device Terminal B .

In screenshot applet window displays applet message . Applet message may appear shortly after the user selects activation button . Applet message presents a message stating that terminal device is now connected to mobile broadband hotspot .

In screenshot mobile broadband hotspot may induce terminal device to send an activation request to activate mobile broadband hotspot . Applet window may be any type of applet window including from a web browser. Applet window may contain applet message presenting a message associated with a scheduled connection request sent from mobile broadband hotspot to terminal device . The scheduled connection request causes terminal device to transmit an access point mode activation request back to mobile broadband hotspot using the same process as already described above.

The scheduled connection request can be sent at a predetermined time to one or more paired devices. In this instance the activation notification is sent to terminal device at 3 30 A.M. This functionality allows terminal device to connect to mobile broadband hotspot without any user presence for example to provide Internet connectivity for scheduled software updates. Applet message indicates that terminal device will automatically send a request to set mobile broadband hotspot to access point mode within seconds. If the user is present the user may select accept button with cursor to immediately send the activation request or the user may select cancel button to cancel the scheduled activation request. Similarly scheduled disconnection requests may also be sent at a predetermined time. In this manner power consumption and battery life of all the devices may be extended by enabling mobile broadband hotspot only as needed.

Referring to flowchart in and system of flowchart begins when processor detects using an auxiliary radio receiver such as Bluetooth transceiver a request to activate the access point mode from a connecting device such as terminal device . As previously described a user my cause terminal device to send the request to activate the access point mode. In other situations terminal device may receive a scheduled connection request to activate or deactivate mobile broadband hotspot as described in

Next referring to flowchart in and system of flowchart proceeds as processor enables the access point mode of mobile broadband hotspot in response to receiving the request to activate . Once the activation request is received by Bluetooth transceiver mobile broadband hotspot will enable its access point mode. As previously described mobile broadband hotspot may recognize and accept the activation request from terminal device due to prior pairing between the two devices.

Finally referring to flowchart in and system of flowchart proceeds as processor establishes using a primary radio transceiver such as Wi Fi transceiver a connection between mobile broadband hotspot and a connecting device . As previously discussed a pre shared key PSK may be utilized to secure the connection. Mobile broadband hotspot may establish a connection with the device that is sending the activation request in which case the connecting device is terminal device . However in other implementations terminal device may also direct mobile broadband hotspot to allow connection from another terminal device such as terminal device thereby providing guest access.

From the above description it is manifest that various techniques can be used for implementing the concepts described in the present application without departing from the scope of those concepts. Moreover while the concepts have been described with specific reference to certain implementations a person of ordinary skill in the art would recognize that changes can be made in form and detail without departing from the spirit and the scope of those concepts. As such the described implementations are to be considered in all respects as illustrative and not restrictive. It should also be understood that the present application is not limited to the particular implementation described herein but many rearrangements modifications and substitutions are possible without departing from the present disclosure.

