---

title: Methods and materials for producing transgenic artiodactyls
abstract: Swine animal models comprising a genomic disruption of an endogenous gene chosen from the group consisting of a Low-Density Lipoprotein Receptor gene LDLR, Duchene's Muscular Dystrophy (DMD) gene, and hairless gene (HR). Methods of preparing transfected cells useful for making a transgenic animal comprising exposing a first group of cells to a transfection agent and reseeding the group with additional cells that have not been exposed to the agent. The transgenic animals are useful for medical and scientific animal models of human diseases and conditions, as well as sources for cells, tissues, and biomaterials.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08518701&OS=08518701&RS=08518701
owner: Recombinetics, Inc.
number: 08518701
owner_city: Minneapolis
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120509
---
This application is a continuation of pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 025 373 filed on Feb. 11 2011 which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application Nos. 61 303 523 filed Feb. 11 2010 and 61 309 949 filed Mar. 3 2010 which are hereby incorporated by reference herein.

The field of the invention relates to the production of transgenic artiodactyls for instance pigs. Some aspects of the field relate to the genes manipulated to make the transgenic animal for instance the low density lipoprotein receptor LDLR gene Duchene s Muscular Dystrophy DMD gene and the Hairless HR gene. Other aspects of the field relate to techniques for transforming swine cells.

Swine are an important agricultural commodity and biomedical model. Manipulation of the pig genome provides opportunity to improve production efficiency enhance disease resistance and add value to swine products. Genetic engineering can also expand the utility of pigs for modeling human disease developing clinical treatment methodologies or donating tissues for xenotransplantation. Heightened interest in such models for human disease and in the production of transgenic livestock for biomedical applications have increased the need for improved methods for transgenesis as well as for particular models of various diseases.

Herein is described a method for making a stably transfected swine cell. The arts of transgenic artiodactyl cloning have generally lacked a consistent and robust technique for making stably transfected swine cells. Once a stably transfected cell is produced transgenic swine may be made and then used to meet a growing need for uniform animal models of human pathologies.

One aspect of the method is that a first group of cells may be treated to introduce an exogenous gene and then mixed with a second group of cells that have not been treated. A series of collection and selection processes may be overlaid with this step being repeated. This method is exemplified herein in the context of the production of swine cells with a knockout for the low density lipoprotein receptor LDLR Dystrophin gene DMD and Hairless gene HR in male and female domestic and miniature swine cells.

Transgenic animals with knockouts for LDLR and DMD gene are described herein. These animals are useful for modeling atherosclerosis and Duchenne s muscular dystrophy respectively. Knockouts for HR are useful for providing components for medical devices including dermal derived biomaterials and for the use of pigs as models for transdermal drug delivery and other applications benefiting from denuded skin.

An embodiment of the invention is a transgenic swine comprising a genomic disruption of an endogenous gene chosen from the group consisting of a Low Density Lipoprotein Receptor gene LDLR Duchene s Muscular Dystrophy DMD gene and hairless gene HR . Said genomic disruption may be engineered for preventing expression of a functional protein and or preventing expression on any protein. The swine may be homozygous or heterozygous for said disrupted gene. The swine may be free of a marker gene. The swine may exhibit a phenotype chosen from the group consisting of hypercholesterolemia atherosclerosis and atherosclerotic lesions. Some of all of the cells in the animal may be disrupted with respect to the DMD LDLR or HR gene. The disruption may be inducible upon administration of an induction agent. The swine may be chosen from the group consisting of pig miniature pig and Ossabaw pig. Tissue recovered from such a pig is included as well as methods of recovering said tissue.

An embodiment is a transfected somatic swine cell comprising a disrupted gene chosen from the group consisting of a Low Density Lipoprotein Receptor gene LDLR Duchene s Muscular Dystrophy DMD gene and a hairless gene HR . The cell may be chosen from the group consisting of embryonic blastomere fetal fibroblast adult ear fibroblast and granulosa cell. A transgenic swine may be prepared by nuclear transfer of such a cell.

An embodiment is a method of introducing an exogenous nucleic acid into a swine cell in vitro comprising exposing a first group of swine cells to a transfection agent that comprises an exogenous nucleic acid during a first culture time period and subsequently adding a second group of swine cells to the first group for a second culture time period wherein the second group of cells have not been exposed to the transfection agent. The first group of cells may be chosen from the group consisting of primary fetal swine cells and swine fibroblasts. A ratio of the second group of cells to the first group of cells may be between 1 1 and 20 1. The exogenous nucleic acid may disrupts a target gene chosen from the group consisting of a Low Density Lipoprotein Receptor gene LDLR Duchene s Muscular Dystrophy DMD gene and a hairless gene HR .

One embodiment of the invention is a method of transfecting an artiodactyl cell. A first group of artiodactyl cells may be treated to introduce an exogenous gene and then mixed with a second group of artiodactyl cells that have not been so treated. This process has been observed to produce significant efficiencies and reproducibility. A series of working examples are set forth below followed by a more detailed overview of this embodiment.

The working examples are also embodiments of the invention. These examples describe stably transfected swine cells made with various transformations. These cells may be used to make transgenic animals which are useful for many purposes including animal models of human diseases and conditions and sources of tissue.

Cardiovascular disease is a leading cause of death and dysfunction in the United States with coronary artery disease being a major contributor. Animal models are fundamental to understanding the mechanisms of atherosclerosis. The development of new therapies relies heavily on the use of these models. Unfortunately there is a lack of suitable large animal models for studying new therapies or testing them. For instance several stent drug combinations have been successful in animal studies but failed in subsequent human clinical trials. Trials that are successful in the animal models that subsequently fail in human trials may be explained by unfaithful replication of human disease pathology in the animal models.

Hypercholesterolemia is a principal cause of atherosclerosis. Rabbits swine and rhesus monkeys with genetic mutations linked to hypercholesterolemia have been used to study atherosclerosis and recent research has focused on genetically modified mice. However genetically modified mice that manifest hypercholesterolemia do not exhibit lesions typical of atherosclerosis in humans. Some inbred swine with defective Low Density Lipoprotein Receptors LDLR do develop lesions but do not show a consistent and predictable manifestation of the disease. The Low Density Lipoprotein Receptor LDLR is a cell surface receptor that mediates the endocytosis of cholesterol rich low density lipoprotein LDL . In humans the LDLR protein is encoded by the LDLR gene and was implicated as having a role in familial hypercholesterolemia Brown M S Goldstein J L 1984 . How LDL Receptors Influence Cholesterol and Atherosclerosis . Scientific American 251 52 60. .

Herein as described below transgenic swine cells were made with a defect in LDLR expression. Transgenic animals may be made from these cells using any of a variety of standard technique known to artisans in these fields. In brief the production of a functional LDLR gene product was disrupted by introduction of a stop cassette within LDLR exon 4 by Adeno associated virus rAAV homologous recombination HR . An rAAV HR cassette rAAV LDLR E4 stop was generated with a PGK Neo selection cassette inserted within LDLR exon 4 at the XhoI restriction site . Replacement of LDLR exon 4 with rAAV LDLR E4 stop resulted in a truncated non functional LDLR protein product. Several AAV constructs were designed and created that either targeted other exons or that avoided certain repetitive elements around exon 4. Colonies with LDLR nonexpression were identified from three separate transductions.

Two million male primary fetal fibroblasts PFF were plated in each well of a 6 well plate 24 hours prior to incubation completely confluent with 5 25 100 and 150 l per well of rAAV LDLR E4 stop viral supernatant in 1 ml of growth medium. Cells were incubated for two hours prior to the addition of 3 ml growth medium. Twenty four hours later cells from each transduction were plated onto five 96 well plates at the density of 2000 cells well. Cells were allowed to recover overnight prior to selection in medium containing 250 g ml G418 subsequently increased to 300 g ml on day 8. On day 16 all the wells were 100 confluent from the 100 an 150 l transductions most wells were completely confluent from the 25 l transduction and approximately half of the wells from the 5 l transduction were confluent. On day 17 cells were trypsinized from both 5 and 25 l transduction plates with 25 l of TRYPLE EXPRESS Invitrogen CA for 5 min under 37 degrees Celsius after Phosphate Buffer Solution PBS washing. 175 l of serum containing media were added and mixed. Half of the cell suspension was cryopreserved in deep well plates while the remaining half was transferred to 96 well PCR plates pelleted and resuspended in 20 l of 1 PCR lysis buffer.

The second transduction was performed as with the first transduction with a few exceptions as follows. PFF cells were plated on 6 well plates 24 hours prior to transduction to achieve a density of 30 confluence. Twenty five microliters of rAAV LDLR E4 stop viral supernatant was added to 1 ml growth medium and were plated onto five 96 well plates at the density of 1 000 cells well 24 hours later. Cells were allowed to recover overnight prior to selection in medium containing 300 ug ml G418. On day 15 most wells were 100 confluent and cells were split and plated on replicate 96 well plate wells. When wells were 100 confluent cells from one replicate were collected in 1 PCR lysis buffer.

PCR analysis was conducted on the 5 l and 25 l transduction plates from the first transduction and the 25 l transduction plates from the second transduction using primers designed to amplify across the 3 junction Panel A . Approximately 50 of wells were confluent in the first transduction 5 l transduction plates therefore it would be expected that most wells would harbor one G 418 resistant colony. Unfortunately no positive wells were detected from the 5 l plates suggesting that homologous recombination at the LDLR locus had occurred in less than 1 in 250 G 418 resistant colonies.

Cells from the first transduction and second transduction 25 l transduction plates were screened next. Unlike the previous first transduction 5 l plates most wells were 100 confluent and were expected to contain 2 6 independent G 418 resistant colonies per well. Despite the likelihood of multiple colonies per well positive signals from 26 wells of the first transduction and 15 wells of the second transduction panel B were detected. Signal intensity of the PCR varied significantly among positives and likely reflected the proportion of cells that are correctly targeted versus resistant bystander colonies containing random integration of the targeting vector. In total 11 of the 41 positives had strong signal and were cryopreserved for WGA Southern blot analysis. PCR products from 4 of 5 of the strong positives were confirmed by restriction digestion . These clones were further analyzed by Southern hybridization and identified the expected band for the correctly targeted locus. However in pure knockout colonies a 50 50 ratio of intensity between knockout and wild type alleles were expected thus clones with the expected knockout allele appear to be confounded by the presence of wt cells 80 based on signal intensity .

A third infection was conducted in both male and female PFF. Transduced cells were plated at densities of 100 well 200 well and 500 well on 96 well plates 5 replicates for each density and sex supplemented with wild type cells to a total of 1 000 cells per well and selected in G 418 for two weeks. Neomycin resistant colonies appeared in approximately 30 to 50 of wells in the 100 and 200 plates while greater than 90 percent of wells in 500 plates contained a colony Table 1 . Primary PCR screening was performed on the 100 and 200 plates resulting in 2 and 11 positive wells for male and female cells respectively Table 2 . The healthy 1 male and 7 female colonies were cryopreserved and a portion were set aside for WGA. PCR of both 5 and 3 junctions from WGA DNA revealed positive signal in 1 and 5 of the male and female colonies respectively and Table 2 . Identity of the junction PCR was confirmed by restriction digest . Finally positive clones from both the first and second transductions were analyzed by Southern blotting confirming the knockout allele in each PCR positive clone .

These tests verified that cells were made with LDLR knockouts. Specifically the following clones contained cells with heterozygous knockout of the LDLR locus M clone 1 F clones 8 10 11 13 14 and 15. In addition the male clones 1 and 7 may contain the knockout but failed to be verified by WGA Southern analysis. The cells may be cloned into male and female pigs by Somatic Cell nuclear transfer Chromatin transfer or other suitable techniques. These founders may then be bred to create pigs homozygous for knockout of the LDLR gene.

These techniques may be used to produce animals that are homozygous or heterozygous for the disrupted gene cells that have a marker gene or are free of a marker gene a swine that exhibits a phenotype chosen from the group consisting of hypercholesterolemia atherosclerosis and atherosclerotic lesions including any combination thereof wherein the disrupted LDLR gene is disrupted at exon 4 and wherein all of the LDLR genes in the swine are disrupted.

For this gene and others techniques for making marker free recombinant cells and animals has been described in U.S. Publication No. 2010 0146655 which is hereby incorporated herein by reference for all purposes in case of conflict the specification is controlling.

The working example described these process with respect to disruption of exon 4 of LDLR. Familial hypercholestolemia via LDLR mutation is commonly due to a dominant mutation in LDLR at a variety of locations ranging from exon 1 to deletion in the final three exons as is known see LOW DENSITY LIPOPROTEIN RECEPTOR LDLR OMIM hereby incorporated by reference herein . Therefore frame shift mutation truncation or introduction of single amino acid changes throughout the LDRL gene are expected to disrupt LDLR function. Targeting such changes would simply require the acquisition of the pig LDLR sequences available in Genbank ENSEMBL or as described in SEQ ID NO 1 and the application of methods for homologous recombination allele conversion or the introduction of an indel using zinc finger nucleases meganucleases or TAL effector nucleases or any other targeted method for DNA breakage modification. Like humans pigs have been described with dyslipidemia on the basis of mutations in components of the lipid scavenging system. For example all pig breeds examined are monomorphic at positions in the apolipoprotein E ApoE gene that are associated with a predisposition for high plasma LDL cholesterol in patients i.e. they encode arginine residues at positions 112 and 158 that correspond to the deleterious ApoE4 isoform. Rapacz identified naturally occurring hypercholesterolemia in farm pigs leading to atherosclerotic plaques in aged pigs. The causative mutations were identified in two familial hypercholesterolemic pig lines including an alternative apolipoprotein B ApoB allele and a missense mutation in exon 4 of the low density lipoprotein receptor LDLR R84c . Mutations at the analogous residue in human LDLR R115c and R115H have been reported the latter displaying 64 LDL clearance activity compared to wild type LDLR in an in vitro study. This suggests that the R84c mutation in pigs is likely to be a hypomorphic allele of LDLR. As in humans pig are dependent on LDLR mediated removal of LDL from circulation since they do not produce ApoB 48 in their livers to allow for ApoE dependent removal of LDL via the chylomicron remnant receptors as is the case for rodents and dogs. Ossabaw pigs are an animal model of hypercholesterolemia while useful genetic engineering of LDDR defects in this breed and others will be have a number of advantages for improving these models. One advantage is a severe and rapid onset of dyslipidemia considering the conservation of LDLR in pigs and humans as well as the predicted predisposition to high plasma LDL cholesterol. The motifs known for truncating ablating or otherwise disrupting LDDR in swine humans and mice may accordingly be applied in the creation of a transfected cell and a transgenic swine.

SEQ ID NO 1 was used to generate a probe for BAC library screening and recovery of a genomic clone containing the pig LDLR gene. SEQ ID NO 2 is a HinD III subclone from the LDLR BAC that encompasses exons 2 5. Once available this sequence was verified by comparison to GenBank FP102365.2.

Further disclosure relating to lipoprotein receptors is provided in U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 521 071 5 798 209 6 174 527 6 833 240 7 008 776 7 306 794 7 416 849 and U.S. Publication No. 2002 0155446 which are hereby incorporated herein by reference for all purposes in case of conflict the instant specification is controlling.

The primary product of the Dystrophin gene in muscle is dystrophin a 427 kDa rod shaped protein having four domains an N terminal actin binding domain 24 triple helix spectrin like repeats with four hinge regions a cysteine rich domain with two potential calcium binding motifs and a unique C terminal domain Koenig et al. . In muscle dystrophin forms a linkage between the cytoskeletal actin and a group of membrane proteins as well as with a number of non membranal proteins collectively called dystrophin associated proteins DAPs Yoshida et al. Ervasti et al. . The N terminal domain binds to the cytoskeletal actin and the association with the DAPs is mediated mainly by the cysteine rich and C terminal domains of dystrophin Suzuki et al. Jung et al. . One of the DAPs dystroglycan binds laminin. Thus in muscle this complex links the cytoskeleton the sarcolemma and the extracellular matrix Ahn et al. Campbell Ozawa et al. .

The Dystrophin gene also codes for two non muscle isoforms of dystrophin each controlled by a different promoter located in the 5 end region of the gene the brain type dystrophin Nudel et al. Barnea et al. Boyce et al. and Purkinje cell type dystrophin Gorecki et al. . In addition internal promoters located within downstream introns for the dystrophin gene regulate the expression of smaller products. Dp71 a 70.8 kDa protein consists of only the cysteine rich and C terminal domains of dystrophin Bar et al. Lederfein et al. . It is the most abundant non muscle product of the dystrophin gene and has been found in all tissues tested so far except for differentiated skeletal muscle. The highest levels of Dp71 are found in the brain Rapaport et al. Greenberg et al. . The other known small products of the dystrophin gene consist of the cysteine rich and C terminal domains with various extensions into the spectrin like repeats domain. These products are Dp116 Byers et al. Dp140 Lidov et al. and Dp260 D Souza et al. which are expressed mainly in Schwann cells brain and retina respectively and have molecular weights of 116 140 and 260 kDa. The functions of the non muscle dystrophins and of the smaller products of the dystrophin gene are not known.

Rodent models of dystrophin have proven invaluable in defining the complexity of muscle disease and enabled the development of several promising therapeutic strategies for DMD. However muscle degeneration in the mdx mouse model is mild in comparison to DMD patients. For instance mdx mice are mobile they do not have significant fibrosis or joint contractures and the skeletal myofibers are only partially replaced by adipose cells later in life. The myotendinous junctions are severely impaired in DMD patients Bell C. D. and Conen Hasegawa et al. Nagao et al. but only have minor alterations in maturation and maintenance in mdx mice Law and Tidbal . In addition the loss of synaptic folds in the neuromuscular synapse has little effect on synaptic transmission in mdx mice Banks et al. Carlson et al. Lyons et al. but has a greater effect in DMD patients Slater . Furthermore the lifespan of mdx mice are only moderately shortened 20 so the relevance of different therapeutic strategies is difficult to assess Chamberlain et al. . Therapeutic strategies may instead benefit from examining large animal models of DMD.

One explanation for the mild phenotype of mdx mice is that the functional requirement of dystrophin to transmit muscle forces may be minimal given their small and weak stature in comparison to humans. Satellite cells also retain their regenerative potential better in mdx mice than in DMD patients so may more actively repair damaged tissue. Another possibility is that homologous proteins such as utrophin can compensate more effectively for the absence of dystrophin in mice. Consistent with this hypothesis two independent laboratories generated mice lacking both dystrophin and utrophin to generate a more severe model of DMD Deconinck et al. Grady et al. . mdx utrn mice are smaller than wild type mice develop severe kyphosis and become less mobile with age Deconinck et al. Grady et al. and they develop an inflammatory response in the skeletal musculature Deconinck et al. Grady et al. In these double knockout mice many of the muscle fibers are replaced by fibrotic tissue that contributes to joint contractures Deconinck et al. Grady et al. . However clear differences in the size stem cell dynamics and requirement for dystrophin function argue against the continued reliance on rodent models.

There are several cxmd dog models of DMD including the Golden Retriever GRMD Cooper et al. Rottweiler Partridge German Short Haired Pointer Schatzberg and cxmdj Beagles in Japan Shimatsu et al. . These various dogs display similar although variable phenotypes Polejaeva Wheeler and Walters . There is a high mortality rate of early neonatal GRMD dogs from selective muscle degeneration Charreau et al. Kuroiwa et al. . For dogs that live through the neonatal period muscle degeneration is followed by muscle regeneration and a large inflammatory response Nguyen et al. . Some of the muscles have high concentrations of crystalline calcium and hyaline Cooper et al. Nguyen et al. and muscle fibers begin to be replaced by fibrotic tissue and adipose cells at approximately 2 months of age Nguyen et al. . Joint contractures are prominent by 6 months and mobility is severely impaired. The muscles are atrophic weaker and more susceptible to contraction induced injury Nguyen et al. Childers et al. . GRMD dogs develop cardiomyopathy Chetboul and Carlos et al. Chetboul and Escriou et al. and respiratory distress that can lead to death Valentine et al. 1991 . GRMD dogs display a mosaic expression of truncated dystrophins with deletions from exons 2 10 and 4 13 Schatzberg et al. although expression becomes somewhat more uniform with age Cooper et al. . These truncated dystrophins lack part of the N terminal actin binding domain hinge 1 spectrin repeat 1 and part of spectrin repeat 2. The N terminal actin binding domain of dystrophin is important for dystrophin expression and function Banks et al. Beggs et al. Le et al. Chelley et al. Le et al. Matsumra et al. Muntoni et al. Novakic et al. Prior et al. Takeshima et al. Winnard et al. .

Although these dogs sometimes present a faithful model of DMD there is significant phenotypic variability between dogs with the same mutation Cooper et al. Shimatsu et al. 2003 . In human patients and the GRMD model dystrophin expression can be restored when there is a point mutation in the N terminal actin binding domain Schatzberg et al. Winnard et al. . Although these regions are important for dystrophin expression and function the central actin binding domain can partially compensate for deletions in the N terminal actin binding domain Warner et al. Rybakova et al. . Dp260 can mitigate muscle degeneration when expression levels are near normal Warner et al. . Thus variations in expression of the truncated dystrophins in the dog model could explain the variability in phenotype between dogs. Despite being the only large animal model of DMD the use of dogs is expensive they are not susceptible to genetic manipulation and are not a preferred system due to the fact that they are an emotive species.

Herein are described cells for making genetically engineered pigs to provide a superior large animal model of DMD. The size musculoskeletal and heart physiology of pigs is remarkably similar to humans. The latter fact underlies the widespread use of pigs in cardiovascular research. The size of the pig is will elicit mechanical strain sufficient to induce DMD in the context of dystrophin deficiency. In addition the high reproductive rate averaging 10 piglets per litter and genome malleability due to cloning put pigs as a large animal model on par with rodents but with greater anatomical and physiological similarity to humans. Use of gene knockout technology as described herein provides a more robust model.

This method is described in detail herein in the context of the production of swine cells with a knockout for the dystrophin gene in male and female domestic and miniature swine cells. These cells may be used in nuclear transfer to produce DMD founder animals that are bred and expanded through breeding and then used to meet a growing need of medical device and pharmaceutical companies for uniform animal models of human pathologies that can help predict the outcome of human therapeutic interventions.

Establishment of pigs ablated at the dystrophin locus has been undertaken in both male and female cells. Cloning male cells into pigs by somatic cell nuclear transfer may be used to generate founders that have DMD permitting rapid evaluation of the suitability of pigs as a model. Propagation of pigs ablated at the dystrophin locus may be undertaken using females given its location on the X chromosome. Sows as viable founders will maintain one normal copy of dystrophin and would then need to be bred to generate males with DMD. The results herein showed a successful process for knocking out the dystrophin gene in male and female fibroblasts. These cells are a suitable resource for Somatic cell nuclear transfer or chromatin transfer and will be used to create founders.

The porcine dystrophin gene was disrupted by recombinant Adeno associated virus rAAV homologous recombination to produce a model of muscular dystrophy in swine. Homologous recombination between the rAAV cassette and the dystrophin gene would result in the replacement of exon 7 with a PGK Neo selection cassette . The absence of exon 7 creates a frame shift in the full length dystrophin transcript eliminating the production of the Dp427 dystrophin isoform.

The experimental approach involved creation of a rAAV replacement cassette rAAV DMD E7R for targeting of DMD exon 7 using a fusion PCR technique described in Kohil et al. 2004 Panel A . Viral packaging was conducted by co transfection of AAV 293 cells with plasmids rAAV DMD E7R pAAV RC and pAAV helper. Two days after transfection cells from one 100 mm plate were lysed in 1 ml of growth media by 3 freeze thaw cycles and stored at 80 C. in 300 microliter aliquots.

Early passage pig fetal fibroblasts PFF were plated at a density of 30 000 cells cmin a single well of a six well plate to achieve 70 80 confluence within 24 hours. Media was changed 1 hour prior to transduction and replaced with 1 ml of fresh growth medium. One hundred fifty microliters of viral lysate was added to a single well and incubated under standard growing conditions. After a 24 hour incubation cells were washed 3 with PBS trypsinized and plated onto 96 well plates at densities ranging from 250 cells well to 2 000 cells well. Plates seeded at low density were adjusted to 1 000 cells per well with wild type fibroblasts to enhance plating efficiency. On the following day medium containing 300 g ml G 418 was added and changed 3 in the course of two weeks. The surface area in the 96 well plate in this and other experiments was about 0.33 cmper well so that a density of 1000 cells per well is equal to about 3 000 cells per cm so that densities ranged from about 800 to about 6000 cells per cm.

After two weeks of selection in G 418 cells were trypsinized and divided 50 50 between a 96 well PCR plate and a 96 well growth plate. Cells in the PCR plate were pelleted and resuspended in 25 l of lysis buffer while the growth plate was returned to the incubator. PCR was conducted between the PGK Neo cassette and primers located outside of both the 5 and 3 homology arms Panel B . PCR positive wells were allowed to grow to confluence prior to trypsinization followed by removal of cells for Whole Genome Amplification WGA Southern blotting and cryopreservation.

Early passage PFF were cultured to 70 80 confluence prior to transduction with 150 microliters of viral lysate. Cells were trypsinized after 24 hours of incubation and plated on 6 wells of 96 well plates at densities indicated in Table 3. After 14 days of selection in G 418 very few viable cells remained in the wild type control wells while each well of the 1 000 and 2 000 cells well plates contained resistant cells. Most wells in the 500 and 250 plates also contained resistant cells Table 3 however unlike the 1 000 and 2 000 had both partially confluent and empty wells were present. Based on the percentage of wells containing resistant cells in the 500 and 250 plates we would expect a range of 2 6 and 1 3 independent colonies per well respectively. These plates were screened for correct targeting by PCR to obtain an estimate of gene targeting frequency for subsequent experiments. Using PCR primers to amplify both 5 and 3 junctions a positive signal was observed in 6 10 of wells containing resistant cells Panel B and Table 4 . Wells giving strong signal for both 5 and 3 junctions were harvested for cryopreservation and WGA Southern blotting. Since the DMD dystrophin gene is on the X chromosome and the cells used for this experiment were male a pure knockout clone is expected to completely lack the 6.2 kb wild type allele while wells containing more than one independent resistant colony were likely to contain both the wild type and 3.3 kb targeted allele. Despite the likelihood for multiple colonies per well cells from 2 of the 6 wells analyzed by Southern blotting clones 3 and 5 appeared to contain mostly targeted alleles Panel B .

A second infection was conducted in both male and female PFF. Transduced cells were plated at densities of 100 well 200 well and 500 well on 96 well plates 5 replicates for each density and sex supplemented with wild type cells to a total of 1 000 cells per well and selected in G 418 for two weeks. Neomycin resistant colonies appeared in approximately 40 60 and greater than 90 percent of wells in the 100 200 and 500 plates respectively Table 5 . Primary PCR screening was performed on the 100 and 200 plates resulting in 13 and 2 positive wells for male and female cells respectively Table 6 . The healthy 11 male and 1 female colonies were cryopreserved and a portion was set aside for WGA. PCR of both 5 and 3 junctions from WGA DNA revealed positive signal in 8 and 1 of the male and female colonies respectively and Table 6 . Identity of the junction PCR was confirmed by restriction digest . Finally positive clones were analyzed by Southern blotting confirming the knockout allele in each PCR positive clone . The presence of the wt allele in male clones 7 9 10 13 indicates a mixed population while the wild type allele in the female clone Serruys et al. 1994 indicates the knockout is heterozygous.

These results show a successful knockout of the dystrophin gene in male and female fibroblasts. These cells are a suitable resource for Somatic cell nuclear transfer and may be used to create founders. The founders and transgenic wine progeny may have a disrupted DMD gene and exhibit a muscular dystrophy phenotype. The DMD gene may be disrupted for instance at exon 7 or at other sites that are known to disrupt production of a functional DMD gene product or which have already been established to produce a muscular dystrophy phenotype in other animals. Some or all of the DMD genes may be disrupted. The gene disruption may be performed to prevent expression of a functional Dp427 dystrophin isoform.

A pig model of DMD may be derived from the introduction of mutant alleles most common amongst DMD patients into the pig dystrophin locus by homologous recombination which are know e.g. see DYSTROPHIN DMD OMIM which is hereby incorporated herein by reference for all purposes in case of conflict the specification is controlling also Tuffery Giraud 2009 . Alternatively of the cases of DMD result from a de novo mutation for which neither parent is a carrier as is known see DYSTROPHIN DMDallelic variants OMIM which is hereby incorporated herein by reference for all purposes in case of conflict the specification is controlling. Common and de novo alleles could be replicated either by the introduction of previously identified mutant alleles by homologous recombination gene conversion or the introduction of an indel into relevant exons using zinc finger nuclease meganucleases TAL effector nucleases or any other method for targeted DNA breakage modification. Artisans are able to access gene sequences as may be needed e.g DMD cDNA Genebank ID NM001012408 Genomic with exon 7 NW001886608 Exon 2 7 Cross referenced with cDNA Pig X chromosome NC010461.2 Cross referenced with cDNA.

Further disclosure relating to DMD genes is provided in U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 239 060 5 430 129 5 985 846 6 653 466 and 7 510 867 which are hereby incorporated by reference herein for all purposes in case of conflict the instant specification is controlling.

Pig hair is a problematic contaminant for both meat production and derivation of skin derived products. Whereas wild species of swine require hair for protection from the sun hair is not required for the well being of modern commercial swine. The hairless HR gene encodes a nuclear receptor corepressor that is required for hair growth. Humans and rodents lacking a functional HR gene are born with hair but are unable to regenerate hair follicles resulting in congenital hair loss early in life Thompson 2009 . Herein swine cells were made with a disrupted porcine hairless gene HR using recombinant Adeno associated virus rAAV homologous recombination. The resultant transfected cells may be used to produce pigs lacking hair by somatic cell nuclear transfer or chromatin transfer.

An rAAV replacement cassette pAAV ssHRTGA was created for targeting of swine HR exon 2 using a fusion PCR technique described in Kohil et al. 2004. Viral packaging was conducted by co transfection of AAV 293 cells with plasmids pAAV ssHRTGA pAAV RC and pAAV helper. Two days after transfection cells from one 100 mm plate were lysed in 1 ml of growth media by 3 freeze thaw cycles and stored at 80 C. in 300 microliter aliquots.

Early passage pig fetal fibroblasts were plated at a density of 30 000 cells cmin a single well of a six well plate to achieve 70 80 confluence within 24 hours. Media was changed 1 hour prior to transduction and replaced with 1 ml of fresh growth medium. One hundred fifty microliters of viral lysate was added to a single well and incubated under standard growing conditions. After a 24 hour incubation cells were washed 3 with PBS trypsinized and plated onto 96 well plates at densities ranging from 125 cells well to 2 000 cells well. Plates seeded at low density were adjusted to 1 000 cells per well with wild type fibroblasts to enhance plating efficiency. On the following day medium containing 300 g ml G 418 was added and changed 3 in the course of two weeks. Resistant colonies emerged and were subjected to PCR and Southern analysis. The data indicates a successful knockout of the pig ssHR gene in about 15 cell clones to date.

Embodiments include a swine wherein the disrupted endogenous gene is ssHR. The swine may exhibit a phenotype chosen from the group consisting of hairlessness and reduced hair one or both . The swine HR gene may be disrupted at ssHR exon 2. The HR gene may also be mutated at other locations as in humans artisans are able to identify suitable sequences as at e.g. HAIRLESS MOUSE HOMOLOG OF HR OMIM which is hereby incorporated herein by reference for all purposes in case of conflict the specification is controlling by homologous recombination ZFN TALENs to create point mutations frame shift mutation or early termination resulting in varying levels of severity. Artisans are able to access sequences as needed to establish strategies and guidance for such strategies has further been set forth herein see for instance Genomic sequence Genebank NC010456.2 nucleotides 6341979 6360034 Ensembl HR Transcript NP001077399.1 ENSSSCT00000010539 .

Further disclosure relating to HR is found in U.S. Publication No. 2005 0176665A1 which is hereby incorporated by reference to the extent it does not contradict what is explicitly disclosed herein.

The transfection of swine cells for generation of transgenic animals is customarily a difficult process. As described and demonstrated herein however swine cells may be conveniently transfected. A first group of artiodactyl cells may be transfected and then mixed with a second group of artiodactyl cells that have not been so treated. Conventional approaches rely on treating as many cells as possible to enhance the odds that a cell with a desired genetic trait can be found. Counterintuitively however it is better to treat fewer cells and hold back untreated cells to mix with them during subsequent culture. Without being bound to a theory of operation the presence of the untreated cells is believed to produce autocrine and or paracrine factors that enhance cell survival or cell phenotype e.g. activation of more preferable DNA repair pathways.

A first embodiment of the method involves introducing an exogenous nucleic acid into a swine cell in vitro comprising exposing a first group of swine cells to a vector that comprises an exogenous nucleic acid during a first culture time period and subsequently adding a second group of swine cells to the first group for a second culture time period wherein the second group of cells have not been exposed to the vector. The first group and the second group after being combined are referred to as a collection or mixed collection. The mixed collection may be subjected to another round of transfection.

One method involves exposing the first group of cells to transfection agents and then splitting the group into a plurality of cultures. The cultures of the first cell group may be prepared at various seeding densities and allowed to grow for a time period and or until a desired level of confluence is achieved. A second group of cells may be added to the first group to achieve an overall seeding density and or after seeding to achieve a desired cell concentration. This second group may be cells that have not been exposed to the transfection agents and may be wild type cells. The wild type cells may be from the same animal as the first group of cells or from a different animal of the same or different species. Any of the groups may also be from a pool of animals for instance a plurality of swine fetuses. The wild type cells may also be from a culture of cells or a primary or secondary cell culture line. Accordingly the term wild type in this specific context of mixing with a group of transfected cells is broad and includes cells transfected by other means. The term native wild type refers to wild type cells that have never been modified.

The ratio of wild type cells to the first group of cells may be for example between 0.1 1 and 100 1 or between 0.5 1 and 10 1 or between about 1 1 and about 20 1 artisans will immediately appreciate that all the ranges and values within the explicitly stated ranges are contemplated.

The first group of cells may be seeded at a first seeding density and wild type cells co cultured to achieve a total density or confluence. For instance a group of cells may be exposed to transfection agents and then seeded into a plurality of cultures at a seeding density referring to a concentration per area of cells e.g. from about 100 to about 10 000 cells per cm artisans will immediately appreciate that all the ranges and values within the explicitly stated ranges are contemplated e.g. about 500 or about 8 000 to about 7 000 or about 10 000. Wild type cells may then be added to bring the cells to a predetermined concentration e.g. to a value between 1000 and 100 000 cells cm.

The wild type cells may be added before during or after the seeding of the first group of cells. Accordingly embodiments include seeding the first group of cells and the wild type cells within a 24 hour time period or at essentially the same time. Embodiments also include seeding the wild type cells at a time between about 1 day and about 1 week before introduction of the first group of cells exposed to the transfection agents. And embodiments also include seeding the wild type cells at a time between about 1 day and two weeks after seeding of the first group of cells. Artisans will immediately appreciate that all the ranges and values within the explicitly stated ranges are contemplated.

These methods may be practiced with the various cell types described herein e.g. fibroblasts primary fetal swine cells blastomeres. The cells may be somatic or germ cells. The cells may be an artiodactyl cell e.g. pig miniature pig Ossabow pig. The cells may be adult juvenile or fetal and from any of a variety of tissue sources e.g. fibroblasts dermal fibroblasts dermal epidermal mesodermal mesenchymal endothelial vascular hepatocyte.

These transfection techniques may be used to transfect a cell with an exogenous nucleic acid that disrupts a target gene e.g. by introduction of a stop codon or by way of other techniques commonly available to an artisan skilled in the art of preventing expression of a nucleic acid in a cell. The genes in the cell may be modified e.g. LDLR DMD and HR.

Cells transfected as described herein may be used to make transgenic artiodactyls e.g. pigs sheep goats and cows . The nucleated cells of the transgenic artiodactyls contain a nucleic acid construct. As used herein the term transgenic artiodactyl includes founder transgenic artiodactyls as well as progeny of the founders progeny of the progeny and so forth provided that the progeny retain the nucleic acid construct. For example a transgenic founder animal can be used to breed additional animals that contain the nucleic acid construct. Transgenic pigs are particularly useful.

Embodiments of the invention include a tissue obtained from the transgenic artiodactyls e.g. transgenic pigs and cells derived from the transgenic artiodactyls e.g. transgenic pigs . As used herein the term derived from indicates that the cells can be isolated directly from the animal or can be progeny of such cells. For example an embodiment of the invention is a brain lung liver pancreas islets heart and heart valves muscle kidney thyroid corneal skin blood vessel or other connective tissue obtained from a transgenic artiodactyl e.g. transgenic pig . Blood and hematopoietic cells Islets of Langerhans beta cells brain cells hepatocytes kidney cells and cells from other organs and body fluids for example also can be derived from transgenic artiodactyls e.g. transgenic pigs .

Various techniques known in the art can be used to introduce nucleic acid constructs into non human animals to produce founder lines in which the nucleic acid construct is integrated into the genome. Such techniques include without limitation pronuclear microinjection U.S. Pat. No. 4 873 191 retrovirus mediated gene transfer into germ lines Van der Putten et al. 1985 82 6148 1652 gene targeting into embryonic stem cells Thompson et al. 1989 56 313 321 electroporation of embryos Lo 1983 3 1803 1814 sperm mediated gene transfer Lavitrano et al. 2002 99 14230 14235 Lavitrano et al. 2006 18 19 23 and in vitro transformation of somatic cells such as cumulus or mammary cells or adult fetal or embryonic stem cells followed by nuclear transplantation Wilmut et al. 1997 385 810 813 and Wakayama et al. 1998 Nature 394 369 374 . Pronuclear microinjection sperm mediated gene transfer and somatic cell nuclear transfer are particularly useful techniques.

Typically in pronuclear microinjection a nucleic acid construct is introduced into a fertilized egg 1 or 2 cell fertilized eggs are used as the pronuclei containing the genetic material from the sperm head and the egg are visible within the protoplasm. Pronuclear staged fertilized eggs can be obtained in vitro or in vivo i.e. surgically recovered from the oviduct of donor animals . In vitro fertilized eggs can be produced as follows. For example swine ovaries can be collected at an abattoir and maintained at 22 28 C. during transport. Ovaries can be washed and isolated for follicular aspiration and follicles ranging from 4 8 mm can be aspirated into 50 mL conical centrifuge tubes using 18 gauge needles and under vacuum. Follicular fluid and aspirated oocytes can be rinsed through pre filters with commercial TL HEPES Minitube Verona Wis. . Oocytes surrounded by a compact cumulus mass can be selected and placed into TCM 199 OOCYTE MATURATION MEDIUM Minitube Verona Wis. supplemented with 0.1 mg mL cysteine 10 ng mL epidermal growth factor 10 porcine follicular fluid 50 M 2 mercaptoethanol 0.5 mg ml cAMP 10 IU mL each of pregnant mare serum gonadotropin PMSG and human chorionic gonadotropin hCG for approximately 22 hours in humidified air at 38.7 C. and 5 CO. Subsequently the oocytes can be moved to fresh TCM 199 maturation medium which will not contain cAMP PMSG or hCG and incubated for an additional 22 hours. Matured oocytes can be stripped of their cumulus cells by vortexing in 0.1 hyaluronidase for 1 minute.

Mature oocytes can be fertilized in 500 l Minitube PORCPRO IVF MEDIUM SYSTEM Minitube Verona Wis. in Minitube 5 well fertilization dishes. In preparation for in vitro fertilization IVF freshly collected or frozen boar semen can be washed and resuspended in PORCPRO IVF Medium to 4 10sperm. Sperm concentrations can be analyzed by computer assisted semen analysis SPERMVISION Minitube Verona Wis. . Final in vitro insemination can be performed in a 10 l volume at a final concentration of approximately 40 motile sperm oocyte depending on boar. Incubate all fertilizing oocytes at 38.7 C. in 5.0 COatmosphere for 6 hours. Six hours post insemination presumptive zygotes can be washed twice in NCSU 23 and moved to 0.5 mL of the same medium. This system can produce 20 30 blastocysts routinely across most boars with a 10 30 polyspermic insemination rate.

Linearized nucleic acid constructs can be injected into one of the pronuclei then the injected eggs can be transferred to a recipient female e.g. into the oviducts of a recipient female and allowed to develop in the recipient female to produce the transgenic animals. In particular in vitro fertilized embryos can be centrifuged at 15 000 g for 5 minutes to sediment lipids allowing visualization of the pronucleus. The embryos can be injected with approximately 5 picoliters of the transposon transposase cocktail using an Eppendorf FEMTOJET injector and can be cultured until blastocyst formation 144 hours in NCSU 23 medium see e.g. PCT Publication No. 2006 036975 . Rates of embryo cleavage and blastocyst formation and quality can be recorded.

Embryos can be surgically transferred into uteri of asynchronous recipients. For surgical embryo transfer anesthesia can be induced with a combination of the following ketamine 2 mg kg tiletamine zolazepam 0.25 mg kg xylazine 1 mg kg and atropine 0.03 mg kg all from Columbus Serum . While in dorsal recumbency the recipients can be aseptically prepared for surgery and a caudal ventral incision can be made to expose and examine the reproductive tract. Typically 100 200 e.g. 150 200 embryos can be deposited into the ampulla isthmus junction of the oviduct using a 5.5 inch TOMCAT catheter. After surgery real time ultrasound examination of pregnancy can be performed using an ALOKA 900 ultrasound scanner Aloka Co. Ltd Wallingford Conn. with an attached 3.5 MHz trans abdominal probe. Monitoring for pregnancy initiation can begin at 23 days post fusion and can be repeated weekly during pregnancy. Recipient husbandry can be maintained as normal gestating sows.

In somatic cell nuclear transfer a transgenic artiodactyl cell e.g. a transgenic pig cell such as an embryonic blastomere fetal fibroblast adult ear fibroblast or granulosa cell that includes a nucleic acid construct described above can be introduced into an enucleated oocyte to establish a combined cell. Oocytes can be enucleated by partial zona dissection near the polar body and then pressing out cytoplasm at the dissection area. Typically an injection pipette with a sharp beveled tip is used to inject the transgenic cell into an enucleated oocyte arrested at meiosis 2. In some conventions oocytes arrested at meiosis 2 are termed eggs. After producing a porcine embryo e.g. by fusing and activating the oocyte the porcine embryo is transferred to the oviducts of a recipient female about 20 to 24 hours after activation. See for example Cibelli et al. 1998 280 1256 1258 and U.S. Pat. No. 6 548 741. For pigs recipient females can be checked for pregnancy approximately 20 21 days after transfer of the embryos.

Standard breeding techniques can be used to create animals that are homozygous for the target nucleic acid from the initial heterozygous founder animals. Homozygosity may not be required however. Transgenic pigs described herein can be bred with other pigs of interest.

In some embodiments a nucleic acid of interest and a selectable marker can be provided on separate transposons and provided to either embryos or cells in unequal amount where the amount of transposon containing the selectable marker far exceeds 5 10 fold excess the transposon containing the nucleic acid of interest. Transgenic cells or animals expressing the nucleic acid of interest can be isolated based on presence and expression of the selectable marker. Because the transposons will integrate into the genome in a precise and unlinked way independent transposition events the nucleic acid of interest and the selectable marker are not genetically linked and can easily be separated by genetic segregation through standard breeding. Thus transgenic animals can be produced that are not constrained to retain selectable markers in subsequent generations an issue of some concern from a public safety perspective.

Once transgenic animal have been generated expression of a target nucleic acid can be assessed using standard techniques. Initial screening can be accomplished by Southern blot analysis to determine whether or not integration of the construct has taken place. For a description of Southern analysis see sections 9.37 9.52 of Sambrook et al. 1989 second edition Cold Spring Harbor Press Plainview NY. Polymerase chain reaction PCR techniques also can be used in the initial screening PCR refers to a procedure or technique in which target nucleic acids are amplified. Generally sequence information from the ends of the region of interest or beyond is employed to design oligonucleotide primers that are identical or similar in sequence to opposite strands of the template to be amplified. PCR can be used to amplify specific sequences from DNA as well as RNA including sequences from total genomic DNA or total cellular RNA. Primers typically are 14 to 40 nucleotides in length but can range from 10 nucleotides to hundreds of nucleotides in length. PCR is described in for example ed. Dieffenbach and Dveksler Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press 1995. Nucleic acids also can be amplified by ligase chain reaction strand displacement amplification self sustained sequence replication or nucleic acid sequence based amplified. See for example Lewis 1992 12 1 Guatelli et al. 1990 87 1874 1878 and Weiss 1991 254 1292 1293. At the blastocyst stage embryos can be individually processed for analysis by PCR Southern hybridization and splinkerette PCR see e.g. Dupuy et al. 2002 99 7 4495 4499 .

Expression of a nucleic acid sequence encoding a polypeptide in the tissues of transgenic pigs can be assessed using techniques that include for example Northern blot analysis of tissue samples obtained from the animal in situ hybridization analysis Western analysis immunoassays such as enzyme linked immunosorbent assays and reverse transcriptase PCR RT PCR .

A variety of nucleic acids may be introduced into the swine cells for knockout purposes or to obtain expression of a gene for other purposes. Nucleic acid constructs that can be used to produce transgenic animals include a target nucleic acid sequence. As used herein the term nucleic acid includes DNA RNA and nucleic acid analogs and nucleic acids that are double stranded or single stranded i.e. a sense or an antisense single strand . Nucleic acid analogs can be modified at the base moiety sugar moiety or phosphate backbone to improve for example stability hybridization or solubility of the nucleic acid. Modifications at the base moiety include deoxyuridine for deoxythymidine and 5 methyl 2 deoxycytidine and 5 bromo 2 doxycytidine for deoxycytidine. Modifications of the sugar moiety include modification of the 2 hydroxyl of the ribose sugar to form 2 O methyl or 2 O allyl sugars. The deoxyribose phosphate backbone can be modified to produce morpholino nucleic acids in which each base moiety is linked to a six membered morpholino ring or peptide nucleic acids in which the deoxyphosphate backbone is replaced by a pseudopeptide backbone and the four bases are retained. See Summerton and Weller 1997 7 3 187 195 and Hyrup et al. 1996 4 1 5 23. In addition the deoxyphosphate backbone can be replaced with for example a phosphorothioate or phosphorodithioate backbone a phosphoroamidite or an alkyl phosphotriester backbone.

The target nucleic acid sequence can be operably linked to a regulatory region such as a promoter. Regulatory regions can be porcine regulatory regions or can be from other species. As used herein operably linked refers to positioning of a regulatory region relative to a nucleic acid sequence in such a way as to permit or facilitate transcription of the target nucleic acid.

Any type of promoter can be operably linked to a target nucleic acid sequence. Examples of promoters include without limitation tissue specific promoters constitutive promoters and promoters responsive or unresponsive to a particular stimulus. Suitable tissue specific promoters can result in preferential expression of a nucleic acid transcript in cells and include for example the human insulin promoter. Other tissue specific promoters can result in preferential expression in for example hepatocytes or heart tissue and can include the albumin or alpha myosin heavy chain promoters respectively. In other embodiments a promoter that facilitates the expression of a nucleic acid molecule without significant tissue or temporal specificity can be used i.e. a constitutive promoter . For example a beta actin promoter such as the chicken actin gene promoter ubiquitin promoter miniCAGs promoter glyceraldehyde 3 phosphate dehydrogenase GAPDH promoter or 3 phosphoglycerate kinase PGK promoter can be used as well as viral promoters such as the herpes virus thymidine kinase TK promoter the SV40 promoter or a cytomegalovirus CMV promoter. In some embodiments a fusion of the chicken actin gene promoter and the CMV enhancer is used as a promoter. See for example Xu et al. 2001 12 5 563 73 and Kiwaki et al. 1996 7 7 821 30.

An example of an inducible promoter is the tetracycline tet on promoter system which can be used to regulate transcription of the nucleic acid. In this system a mutated Tet repressor TetR is fused to the activation domain of herpes simplex VP 16 transactivator protein to create a tetracycline controlled transcriptional activator tTA which is regulated by tet or doxycycline dox . In the absence of antibiotic transcription is minimal while in the presence of tet or dox transcription is induced. Alternative inducible systems include the ecdysone or rapamycin systems. Ecdysone is an insect molting hormone whose production is controlled by a heterodimer of the ecdysone receptor and the product of the ultraspiracle gene USP . Expression is induced by treatment with ecdysone or an analog of ecdysone such as muristerone A. The agent that is administered to the animal to trigger the inducible system is referred to as an induction agent.

Additional regulatory regions that may be useful in nucleic acid constructs include but are not limited to polyadenylation sequences translation control sequences e.g. an internal ribosome entry segment IRES enhancers inducible elements or introns. Such regulatory regions may not be necessary although they may increase expression by affecting transcription stability of the mRNA translational efficiency or the like. Such regulatory regions can be included in a nucleic acid construct as desired to obtain optimal expression of the nucleic acids in the cell s . Sufficient expression however can sometimes be obtained without such additional elements.

Other elements that can be included on a nucleic acid construct encode signal peptides or selectable markers. Signal peptides can be used such that an encoded polypeptide is directed to a particular cellular location e.g. the cell surface . Non limiting examples of selectable markers include puromycin adenosine deaminase ADA aminoglycoside phosphotransferase neo G418 APH dihydrofolate reductase DHFR hygromycin B phosphtransferase thymidine kinase TK and xanthin guanine phosphoribosyltransferase XGPRT . Such markers are useful for selecting stable transformants in culture. Other selectable markers include fluorescent polypeptides such as green fluorescent protein or yellow fluorescent protein.

In some embodiments a sequence encoding a selectable marker can be flanked by recognition sequences for a recombinase such as e.g. Cre or Flp. For example the selectable marker can be flanked by loxP recognition sites 34 bp recognition sites recognized by the Cre recombinase or FRT recognition sites such that the selectable marker can be excised from the construct. See Orban et al. . 1992 89 15 6861 6865 for a review of Cre lox technology and Branda and Dymecki 2004 6 1 7 28. A transposon containing a Cre or Flp activatable transgene interrupted by a selectable marker gene also can be used to obtain transgenic animals with conditional expression of a transgene. For example a promoter driving expression of the marker transgene can be either ubiquitous or tissue specific which would result in the ubiquitous or tissue specific expression of the marker in F0 animals e.g. pigs . Tissue specific activation of the transgene can be accomplished for example by crossing a pig that ubiquitously expresses a marker interrupted transgene to a pig expressing Cre or Flp in a tissue specific manner or by crossing a pig that expresses a marker interrupted transgene in a tissue specific manner to a pig that ubiquitously expresses Cre or Flp recombinase. Controlled expression of the transgene or controlled excision of the marker allows expression of the transgene.

In some embodiments the target nucleic acid encodes a polypeptide. A nucleic acid sequence encoding a polypeptide can include a tag sequence that encodes a tag designed to facilitate subsequent manipulation of the encoded polypeptide e.g. to facilitate localization or detection . Tag sequences can be inserted in the nucleic acid sequence encoding the polypeptide such that the encoded tag is located at either the carboxyl or amino terminus of the polypeptide. Non limiting examples of encoded tags include glutathione S transferase GST and FLAG tag Kodak New Haven Conn. .

In other embodiments the target nucleic acid sequence induces RNA interference against a target nucleic acid such that expression of the target nucleic acid is reduced. For example the target nucleic acid sequence can induce RNA interference against a nucleic acid encoding a cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulatory CFTR polypeptide. For example double stranded small interfering RNA siRNA or small hairpin RNA shRNA homologous to a CFTR DNA can be used to reduce expression of that DNA. Constructs for siRNA can be produced as described for example in Fire et al. 1998 391 806 811 Romano and Macino 1992 6 3343 3353 Cogoni et al. 1996 15 3153 3163 Cogoni and Macino 1999 399 166 169 Misquitta and Paterson 1999 96 1451 1456 and Kennerdell and Carthew 1998 95 1017 1026. Constructs for shRNA can be produced as described by McIntyre and Fanning 2006 6 1. In general shRNAs are transcribed as a single stranded RNA molecule containing complementary regions which can anneal and form short hairpins.

Nucleic acid constructs can be methylated using an SssI CpG methylase New England Biolabs Ipswich Mass. . In general the nucleic acid construct can be incubated with S adenosylmethionine and SssI CpG methylase in buffer at 37 C. Hypermethylation can be confirmed by incubating the construct with one unit of HinP1I endonuclease for 1 hour at 37 C. and assaying by agarose gel electrophoresis.

Nucleic acid constructs can be introduced into embryonic fetal or adult porcine cells of any type including for example germ cells such as an oocyte or an egg a progenitor cell an adult or embryonic stem cell a kidney cell such as a PK 15 cell an islet cell a beta cell a liver cell or a fibroblast such as a dermal fibroblast using a variety of techniques. Non limiting examples of techniques include the use of transposon systems recombinant viruses that can infect cells or liposomes or other non viral methods such as electroporation microinjection or calcium phosphate precipitation that are capable of delivering nucleic acids to cells.

In transposon systems the transcriptional unit of a nucleic acid construct i.e. the regulatory region operably linked to a target nucleic acid sequence is flanked by an inverted repeat of a transposon. Several transposon systems including for example Sleeping Beauty see U.S. Pat. No. 6 613 752 and U.S. Publication No. 2005 0003542 Frog Prince Miskey et al. 2003 31 23 6873 81 2 Kawakami 2007 8 Suppl. 1 S7 Pavlopoulos et al. 2007 8 Suppl. 1 S2 1 Miskey et al. 2007 27 12 4589 600 and Passport Leaver 2001 271 2 203 214 have been developed to introduce nucleic acids into cells including mice human and pig cells. The Sleeping Beauty transposon is particularly useful. A transposase can be encoded on the same nucleic acid construct as the target nucleic acid can be introduced on a separate nucleic acid construct or provided as an mRNA e.g. an in vitro transcribed and capped mRNA .

Insulator elements also can be included in a nucleic acid construct to maintain expression of the target nucleic acid and to inhibit the unwanted transcription of host genes. See for example U.S. Publication No. 2004 0203158. Typically an insulator element flanks each side of the transcriptional unit and is internal to the inverted repeat of the transposon. Non limiting examples of insulator elements include the matrix attachment region MAR type insulator elements and border type insulator elements. See for example U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 395 549 5 731 178 6 100 448 and 5 610 053 and U.S. Publication No. 2004 0203158.

Nucleic acids can be incorporated into vectors. A vector is a broad term that includes any specific DNA segment that is designed to move from a carrier into a target DNA. A vector may be referred to as an expression vector or a vector system which is a set of components needed to bring about DNA insertion into a genome or other targeted DNA sequence such as an episome plasmid or even virus phage DNA segment. Vector systems such as viral vectors e.g. retroviruses adeno associated virus and integrating phage viruses and non viral vectors e.g. transposons used for gene delivery in animals have two basic components 1 a vector comprised of DNA or RNA that is reverse transcribed into a cDNA and 2 a transposase recombinase or other integrase enzyme that recognizes both the vector and a DNA target sequence and inserts the vector into the target DNA sequence. Vectors most often contain one or more expression cassettes that comprise one or more expression control sequences wherein an expression control sequence is a DNA sequence that controls and regulates the transcription and or translation of another DNA sequence or mRNA respectively.

Many different types of vectors are known. For example plasmids and viral vectors e.g. retroviral vectors are known. Mammalian expression plasmids typically have an origin of replication a suitable promoter and optional enhancer and also any necessary ribosome binding sites a polyadenylation site splice donor and acceptor sites transcriptional termination sequences and 5 flanking non transcribed sequences. Examples of vectors include plasmids which may also be a carrier of another type of vector adenovirus adeno associated virus AAV lentivirus e.g. modified HIV 1 SIV or FIV retrovirus e.g. ASV ALV or MoMLV and transposons e.g. Sleeping Beauty P elements Tol 2 Frog Prince piggyBac .

As used herein the term nucleic acid refers to both RNA and DNA including for example cDNA genomic DNA synthetic e.g. chemically synthesized DNA as well as naturally occurring and chemically modified nucleic acids e.g. synthetic bases or alternative backbones. A nucleic acid molecule can be double stranded or single stranded i.e. a sense or an antisense single strand . The term transgenic is used broadly herein and refers to a genetically modified organism or genetically engineered organism whose genetic material has been altered using genetic engineering techniques. A knockout artiodactyl is thus transgenic regardless of whether or not exogenous genes or nucleic acids are expressed in the animal or its progeny.

The publications patents and patent applications referenced in this document are hereby incorporated by reference herein in their entirety for all purposes in case of conflict the specification controls. Headings in this document are provided for reference and are not limiting with respect to the scope of the embodiments of the invention.

vom Dahl J Dietz U Haager P K et al. Rotational atherectomy does not reduce recurrent in stent restenosis results of the angioplasty versus rotational atherectomy for treatment of diffuse in stent restenosis trial ARTIST . 2002 105 5 583 8.

