---

title: Digital clamp for state retention
abstract: Described is an apparatus which comprises: a clamp coupled between a first power supply and a second power supply; and a circuit to operate with the second power supply, wherein the clamp is operable to adjust the second power supply when the apparatus enters a low power mode.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09484917&OS=09484917&RS=09484917
owner: Intel Corporation
number: 09484917
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121218
---
This invention was made with Government support under contract number HR0011 10 3 0007 awarded by the Department of Defense. The Government has certain rights in this invention.

As process technologies scale or shrink transistor leakage increases for the same power supply level. Increase in leakage increases power consumption. As market converges to lower power consumption devices there is a need to reduce power consumption including reducing leakage power of a device.

In current practice when a logic block goes to sleep e.g. sleep mode and all relevant architectural states need to be preserved it is customary to scan the architectural states out and store them in the cache or another memory. Doing so requires energy and time for reading the architectural states and then writing them back once the logic block goes back to an active state. This procedure impacts boot up time and depending on the number of architectural states to be preserved the wakeup time can be a few hundred to a few thousand cycles. So if the logic block has to be used after a few tens or hundreds of cycles it cannot go to a sleep state and have to be kept ON. Such strategy increases the overall leakage power during standby.

In another implementation all the relevant sequentials latches or flip flops are retrofitted with a shadow latch also called balloon latch which has higher threshold Vt transistor cells than Vt of other transistor cells. Before the logic unit goes to standby e.g. sleep mode the data from the sequentials is copied to the shadow latch. The global supply grid e.g. Vcc grid of the logic is collapsed while a separate supply line e.g. Vcc line routed to the shadow latches is kept alive for state retention. This helps with quick boot up. However doing so requires the use and technology support for high Vt cells. Further a significant number of sequentials need to have shadow cells. In case of external IPs where we may not have observability into the IP all the sequentials need to have shadow latches. The term External IP generally refers to a hardware block which has been licensed from a third party vendor. Designs for such hardware blocks cannot be modified to build any shadow latch. The area occupied by the shadow latches along with the area to route and distribute a separate supply line e.g. Vcc line into the logic block results in a significant overhead.

The embodiments describe a digital clamp that is activated when a logic block goes to sleep state. In one embodiment a reference voltage which is substantially equal to state retention voltage of logic units with embedded state retention sequentials is compared with a virtual power supply Vvcc to adjust Vvcc to a retention voltage level.

The term retention voltage level generally refers to a voltage supply level below which the circuit receiving the power supply does not operate properly. For example retention voltage supply level for a sequential unit e.g. flip flop latch is a power supply level below which the data stored in the sequential unit is lost or is corrupted.

In one embodiment clamping of the main power supply Vcc is performed in a few cycles depending on the resolution when the processor enters sleep mode. In one embodiment control unit of the digital clamp allows Vvcc to rise above retention level and substantially close to Vcc level when the processor enters wake up mode. In one embodiment the control logic adjusts Vvcc level above retention level in a single clock cycle. The embodiments result in little area overhead and being a digital solution are highly scalable.

In one embodiment the digital clamp is operable to adjust the level of Vvcc to be at the minimum operating voltage level Vmin. The term minimum operating voltage Vmin generally refers to power supply level below which circuits do not function properly. Generally Vmin is equal to or slightly higher than retention voltage supply level. For example retention voltage supply level for a sequential unit may be 550 mV and Vmin may be 550 mV or higher e.g. 650 mV to include guard band.

In one embodiment an integrated circuit e.g. a processor reduces leakage power via an apparatus that comprises a clamp coupled between a first power supply e.g. Vcc and a second power supply e.g. Vvcc and a circuit to operate with the second power supply wherein the clamp is operable to adjust the second power supply when the apparatus enters a low power mode e.g. sleep mode idle mode . In one embodiment the apparatus further comprises a comparator to compare the second power supply with a reference a counter to count up or down according to an output of the comparator and a decoder to convert an output of the counter to a digital control signal for adjusting the second power supply via the clamp. In one embodiment the comparator is a clocked comparator.

In one embodiment the clamp comprises p type devices coupled to the first and second power supplies where the digital control signal of the decoder is provided to the clamp for controlling the clamp. In one embodiment the decoder generates a thermometer coded digital control signal or a binary weighted digital control signal. In one embodiment the circuit comprises combinational logic units and sequential units.

In one embodiment the apparatus comprises a first oscillator to generate a signal of first frequency a second oscillator to generate a signal of second frequency and a multiplexer to selectively select one of the signals of first and second frequencies. In one embodiment the first oscillator receives a reference voltage and where the second oscillator is coupled to the second power supply. In one embodiment the reference voltage is externally generated and supplied to the apparatus. For example an off chip reference generator may provide the reference voltage as an input to the apparatus for the first oscillator. In one embodiment the reference voltage is internally generated. For example an on die band gap reference circuit or any other reference circuit may be used to generate the reference voltage locally and supplied to the first oscillator.

In one embodiment the apparatus further comprises a first counter to count up or down in response to an output of the multiplexer. In one embodiment the apparatus further comprises a second counter to count up or down according to an output of the first counter. In one embodiment the apparatus comprises a decoder to generate a digital signal according to an output of the second counter the digital signal to adjust the second power supply via the clamp.

In the following description numerous details are discussed to provide a more thorough explanation of embodiments of the present disclosure. It will be apparent however to one skilled in the art that embodiments of the present disclosure may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form rather than in detail in order to avoid obscuring embodiments of the present disclosure.

Note that in the corresponding drawings of the embodiments signals are represented with lines. Some lines may be thicker to indicate more constituent signal paths and or have arrows at one or more ends to indicate primary information flow direction. Such indications are not intended to be limiting. Rather the lines are used in connection with one or more exemplary embodiments to facilitate easier understanding of a circuit or a logical unit. Any represented signal as dictated by design needs or preferences may actually comprise one or more signals that may travel in either direction and may be implemented with any suitable type of signal scheme.

Throughout the specification and in the claims the term connected means a direct electrical connection between the things that are connected without any intermediary devices. The term coupled means either a direct electrical connection between the things that are connected or an indirect connection through one or more passive or active intermediary devices. The term circuit means one or more passive and or active components that are arranged to cooperate with one another to provide a desired function. The term signal means at least one current signal voltage signal or data clock signal. The meaning of a an and the include plural references. The meaning of in includes in and on. 

The term scaling refers to converting a design schematic and layout from one process technology to another process technology. The term scaling generally also refers to downsizing layout and devices within the same technology node. The terms substantially close approximately near about herein refer to being within 20 of a target value.

Unless otherwise specified the use of the ordinal adjectives first second and third etc. to describe a common object merely indicate that different instances of like objects are being referred to and are not intended to imply that the objects so described must be in a given sequence either temporally spatially in ranking or in any other manner.

For purposes of the embodiments the transistors are metal oxide semiconductor MOS transistors which include drain source gate and bulk terminals. Source and drain terminals may be identical terminals and are interchangeably used. Transistors may also include Tri gate and FinFet transistors. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that other transistors for example Bi polar junction transistors BJT PNP NPN BiCMOS CMOS eFET etc. may be used without departing from the scope of the disclosure. The term MN indicates a n type transistor e.g. NMOS NPN BJT etc. and the term MP indicates a p type transistor e.g. PMOS PNP BJT etc. .

In one embodiment digital clamp receives input power supply Vcc and generates a virtual power supply Vvcc which is provided as power supply to logic units . In one embodiment logic units comprise any one or more of sequential logic units e.g. flip flops latches memories e.g. SRAM DRAM and combinational logic units. In one embodiment digital clamp receives control signals from control unit that determines a number of transistors that are turned on or off in the digital clamp to adjust the level of Vvcc.

In one embodiment control unit receives a reference voltage Vref indicative of what Vvcc needs to be when the integrated circuit enters a low power mode e.g. sleep mode. The term power mode e.g. sleep mode idle mode wake up mode normal mode active mode generally refers to power states of a processor as defined by the Advanced Configuration and Power Interface ACPI specification for example Revision 5.0 published on Nov. 23 2011 which provides an open standard for device configuration and power management by an operating system. However the embodiments are not limited to the ACPI low power states. Other specifications that offer lower power states for a processor may be used with the embodiments of the squelch detector.

In one embodiment control unit monitors Vvcc relative to Vref and turns on or off transistors of digital clamp via digital control signals. The feedback loop comprises the signal loop from digital clamp to control unit and back to digital clamp which regulates Vvcc. In one embodiment Vref is externally generated and supplied to the integrated circuit . For example an off chip reference generator may provide Vref as an input to the integrated circuit for the control unit . In one embodiment Vref is internally generated. For example an on die band gap reference circuit or any other reference circuit may be used to generate Vref locally and supplied to the control unit .

In one embodiment apparatus comprises a digital clamp e.g. digital clamp logic units e.g. logic units and a hysteretic control unit e.g. control unit .

In one embodiment digital clamp comprises M number of p type transistors labeled as MPto MPto adjust the virtual power supply Vvcc also called the second power supply . In one embodiment gate terminals of MPto MPare controlled by digital outputs of hysteretic control . In one embodiment source terminals of MPto MPare coupled to Vcc also called the first power supply and the drain terminals are coupled to Vvcc to provide power to logic units . In one embodiment MPto MPare binary weighted. In one embodiment MPto MPare thermometer weighted. In other embodiments other weighting techniques may be used.

In one embodiment hysteretic control comprises a first comparator second comparator an N bit counter where N is an integer greater than one and a decoder . In one embodiment first comparator receives a first reference Vat its negative input terminal and Vvcc at its positive input terminal. In one embodiment output of first comparator is an UP signal which when asserted causes N bit counter to count up. In one embodiment second comparator receives a second reference Vat its positive input terminal and Vvcc at its negative input terminal. In one embodiment output of second comparator is a DN down signal which when asserted causes N bit counter to count down. In one embodiment Vis greater than V.

In one embodiment the reference voltages Vand Vare externally generated and supplied to the control unit . For example an off chip reference generator may provide the reference voltages Vand Vas inputs to the control unit for the first and second comparators and . In one embodiment the reference voltages Vand Vare internally generated. For example an on die band gap reference circuit or any other reference circuit may be used to generate the reference voltages Vand Vlocally and supplied to the first and second comparators and

In one embodiment N bit counter is an N bit UP DN counter which is operable to count up or down in response to the UP or DN signals from the first and second comparators and respectively where N is an integer e.g. . In one embodiment output of N bit counter is received by decoder . In one embodiment decoder converts output of N bit counter into binary weighted digital signals D Dto turn on off transistors MP MP. In one embodiment decoder converts output of N bit counter into thermometer weighted digital signals D Dto turn on off transistors MP MP.

In one embodiment Vvcc is sampled and compared in parallel with two references Vand V . In one embodiment when Vvcc V N bit counter counts up. In one embodiment when Vvcc

The x axis is time in nonoseconds ns while the y axis is voltage in Volts. The plot shows that during sleep mode or low power mode Vvcc drops from Vcc level to a level above V but below V.

The embodiment of is similar to the embodiment of in that it has the same N bit counter decoder digital clamp and logic circuit with sequentials . One difference between the embodiment of and that of is in the control logic. In one embodiment apparatus comprises a control logic also called bang bang control unit which includes a comparator that receives a reference voltage Vref . In one embodiment Vref is received at the positive terminal of comparator while Vvcc is received at the negative terminal of comparator . In one embodiment outputs of comparator are UP and DN signals that instruct N bit counter to count up or down. In one embodiment a single comparator is used.

In one embodiment Vref is externally generated and supplied to the control unit . For example an off chip reference generator may provide the Vref as input to the control unit for the comparator . In one embodiment Vref is internally generated. For example an on die band gap reference circuit or any other reference circuit may be used to generate the Vref locally and supplied to comparator .

In one embodiment Vref is the sum of the state retention voltage same as retention voltage supply level and necessary guard bands. In this embodiment once Vvcc falls below Vref DN signal is asserted and N bit counter counts down. In one embodiment once Vvcc goes above Vref UP signal is asserted and N bit counter counts up. In one embodiment in steady state Vvcc oscillates with a small amplitude depending on the strength of the pull up transistors MP MP across Vref level as in a bang bang comparator.

The x axis is time in nanoseconds while the y axis is voltage in Volts. The plot shows that during sleep mode or low power mode Vvcc drops in a staircase fashion from Vcc level to a level close to Vref . When Vvcc reaches a level close to Vref it then oscillates with small amplitude depending on the strength of the pull up transistors MP MP across Vref level .

In one embodiment clocked comparator is used for comparators and of . In one embodiment clocked comparator is used for comparator of . The clocked comparator is also referred to as sense amplifier latch .

In one embodiment sense amplifier latch comprises n type input transistors MN and MN to receive the input signals on nodes Vin e.g. Vfor comparator Vvcc for comparator and Vvcc for comparator and Vin e.g. Vfor comparator Vvcc for comparator and Vref for comparator .

In one embodiment cross coupled inverting stages formed from transistors MP and MN inverter and transistors MP and MN inverter are coupled to input n type transistors MN and MN at their respective drain terminals. In one embodiment p type transistors MP and MP are coupled in parallel to MP and MP to enable or disable transistors MP and MP respectively on different phases of the clock signal Clk. In one embodiment outputs Vo e.g. DN of comparator and Vo UP of comparator are coupled to the drains of transistors MN and MN respectively. For comparators and one of the outputs Vo or Vo may be used as UP and DN signals.

In one embodiment sense amplifier latch comprises a switchable current source in transistor MN which provides current to sense amplifier latch . In one embodiment sense amplifier latch consumes far less power than any traditional amplifier or comparator because the current source MN is OFF during the low phase of the clock signal Clk. In such an embodiment outputs Vo and Vo are held logically high by transistors MP and MP which are ON during the low phase of the clock signal Clk. In one embodiment sense amplifier latch samples the input signals Vin and Vin during the high phase of the clock signal Clk. In such an embodiment transistor MN is ON and acts like a current source while transistors MP and MP are OFF.

In one embodiment sense or sensing amplifier latch has two operating phases one operating phase is reset and the other operating phase is evaluation. In one embodiment during the reset operation phase output differential nodes Vo and Vo are shorted to Vcc or Vss in a complimentary structure . In one embodiment the back to back coupled inverters MN MP and MN MP are forced to have equal input output voltages. In one embodiment during the evaluation operating phase the different pair charges the two output nodes Vo and Vo at different rates because the current flowing through the differential pair is a function of the input signals Vin and Vin . In such an embodiment back to back coupled inverters MN MP and MN MP see a voltage difference at their inputs outputs and operate in a positive feedback. The positive feedback causes the voltage difference to be magnified i.e. the inputs outputs of back to back coupled inverters MN MP and MN MP grow quickly to a solid logical 1 or logical 0 levels. Hence a small voltage at the sensing amplifier inputs Vin and Vin are magnified to a logic signal. In one embodiment an RS reset set flip flop follows sense amplifier latch stage to form a fully functional unit.

In one embodiment when MN is turned ON there is a current that passes through both sides of the sense amplifier latch . If the input voltage to the gate of MN is higher than the input voltage to the gate of MN then the current through the left side of the sense amplifier latch is higher than the right side. A higher current on the left side means that the voltage drop across MP is larger than the voltage drop across MP which means that the voltage at Vo is higher than Vo . In this embodiment the top portion of sense amplifier latch comprises two cross coupled inverters where the input of each gate is coupled to the output of the other gate. These two inverters may create a positive feedback that quickly forces Vo to become Vcc and Vo to become GND ground . Through a similar analysis it can be seen that if the input voltage to the gate of MN is higher than the input voltage to the gate of MN then Vo is set to GND and Vo is set to Vcc.

In one embodiment transistors MN and MN are of the same size transistors MN and MN are of the same size W L transistors MP and MP are of the same size transistors MP and MP are of the same size. In one embodiment clocked comparator is a low power comparator with high gain to resolve conditions when Vvcc is close to V Vor Vref. As discussed above clocked comparator with a cross coupled inverter load provides high gain has no biasing current and consumes low power. In one embodiment clocked comparator requires no startup time or startup circuits as is the case with op amp comparators .

In one embodiment apparatus comprises a digital clamp same as clamps and logic units same as logic units and a control unit . In one embodiment control unit comprises a first oscillator a second oscillator a multiplexer a first counter N bit counter a second counter M bit counter and a decoder where N and M are integers and where N is greater or equal to M. 

In one embodiment first oscillator is a voltage controlled oscillator VCO that has a controllable oscillation frequency which is controllable by Vref. In one embodiment Vref is externally generated and supplied to the control unit . For example an off chip reference generator may provide the Vref as input to the control unit for the first oscillator . In one embodiment Vref is internally generated. For example an on die band gap reference circuit or any other reference circuit may be used to generate the Vref locally and supplied to first oscillator

In one embodiment output of first oscillator is a periodic signal with a frequency dependent on Vref. In one embodiment output of first oscillator is received by multiplexer . In one embodiment second oscillator is a VCO that has a controllable oscillation frequency which is controllable by Vvcc. In one embodiment output of second oscillator is a periodic signal with a frequency dependent on Vvcc. In one embodiment output of second oscillator is received by multiplexer .

In one embodiment the floor plan and design of first and second oscillators and are identical or substantially the same. One reason for using VCOs and is to avoid small swing sensing of Vref V V and Vvcc as described in embodiments of and . In one embodiment VCOs and are implemented as a chain of current starved inverters in a loop with current strength controllable by Vref or Vvcc. In other embodiments other architectures of VCO may be used for VCOs and

In one embodiment multiplexer is controllable by a select signal generated by controller . In one embodiment controller is a finite state machine FSM . In one embodiment controller generates control signals for other logic units e.g. N bit counter M bit counter and decoder . In one embodiment controller causes multiplexer to select output of VCO as clock signal to the N bit counter to cause the N bit counter to count up with a frequency associated with Vref. In one embodiment controller causes multiplexer to select output of VCO as clock signal to the N bit counter to cause the N bit counter to count down with a frequency associated with Vvcc.

In one embodiment output of N bit counter is the residue signal received as an enable signal ENB to enable counting by M bit counter where M is an integer and where M is same or different than N . In one embodiment if residue is greater than zero controller causes the M bit counter to count up. In one embodiment if residue is less than zero or equal to zero controller causes the M bit counter to count down. In one embodiment controller causes decoder to decode output of the M bit counter to generate control signals for controlling clamp transistors of digital clamp .

In the embodiment of instead of using the clocked small signal comparator as used in the embodiments of and two VCOs and are used. In this embodiment Vref and Vvcc control two current starved VCOs and which produce two signals of different frequencies. In one embodiment the two signals of different frequencies are integrated and the residue of the integration is determined by the digital N bit UP DN counter . In one embodiment if the two signals outputs of VCOs and received by multiplexer have the same frequency the N bit counter is instructed to count up and down by the same amount and so the residue does not change.

In one embodiment if the residue is greater than zero the output of the N bit counter indicates that Vref Vvcc Vref is greater than Vvcc . In one embodiment if the residue is less than zero Vref

It should be noted that if the size of the logic units that is clamped is small then the total leakage current that to be supported by the ON p type devices of the digital clamp is small. It may so happen that even the min width p type pull up devices is too large for the amount of current that it needs to support while clamping the Vvcc to a voltage around retention voltage supply level e.g. 0.5 or 0.6V . In one embodiment digital clamp employs stacked p type devices to reduce current strength and still provide enough resolution for a fine grained clamping voltage on the Vvcc. In this embodiment each p type device of digital clamp is stacked with another p type device e.g. MPand MP and MPand MP .

In one embodiment one or more active device s MPa are coupled in parallel to the digital clamp such that Vvcc is provided as supply to the entire logic unit . In such an embodiment source terminal of the one or more active device s MPa is coupled to Vcc and the drain terminal of the one or more active device s MPa is coupled to Vvcc. In the exemplary embodiment the shaded regions of the logic unit are the sequential units e.g. flip flop memory cells latches etc. while the un shaded portions of logic unit are non sequential units e.g. combinational logic unit . In one embodiment during normal power mode MPa is ON. In one embodiment during normal power mode all clamp transistors of digital clamp are also ON. In one embodiment during low power mode e.g. sleep mode MPa is OFF while certain number of transistors of digital clamp are ON to clamp Vcc to a Vvcc level corresponding to a retention voltage supply level.

Embodiment of is similar to the embodiment of except that clamping is performed for sequential logic units only. If Vvcc to the sequentials can be separately routed then only the sequential unit or only the sequentials needed for state retention can be clamped by the digital clamp according to one embodiment. If the sequential unit can be clamped and not the logic units as a whole then only the slave stages of the sequential can be clamped for even higher power savings according to one embodiment.

In one embodiment computing device includes a first processor with the apparatus of integrated circuit and a second processor with the apparatus of integrated circuit according to the embodiments. Other blocks of the computing device with I O drivers may also include the apparatus of integrated circuit . The various embodiments of the present disclosure may also comprise a network interface within connectivity such as a wireless interface so that a system embodiment may be incorporated into a wireless device for example cell phone or personal digital assistant.

In one embodiment processor can include one or more physical devices such as microprocessors application processors microcontrollers programmable logic devices or other processing means. The processing operations performed by processor include the execution of an operating platform or operating system on which applications and or device functions are executed. The processing operations include operations related to I O input output with a human user or with other devices operations related to power management and or operations related to connecting the computing device to another device. The processing operations may also include operations related to audio I O and or display I O.

In one embodiment computing device includes audio subsystem which represents hardware e.g. audio hardware and audio circuits and software e.g. drivers codecs components associated with providing audio functions to the computing device. Audio functions can include speaker and or headphone output as well as microphone input. Devices for such functions can be integrated into computing device or connected to the computing device . In one embodiment a user interacts with the computing device by providing audio commands that are received and processed by processor .

Display subsystem represents hardware e.g. display devices and software e.g. drivers components that provide a visual and or tactile display for a user to interact with the computing device . Display subsystem includes display interface which includes the particular screen or hardware device used to provide a display to a user. In one embodiment display interface includes logic separate from processor to perform at least some processing related to the display. In one embodiment display subsystem includes a touch screen or touch pad device that provides both output and input to a user.

I O controller represents hardware devices and software components related to interaction with a user. I O controller is operable to manage hardware that is part of audio subsystem and or display subsystem . Additionally I O controller illustrates a connection point for additional devices that connect to computing device through which a user might interact with the system. For example devices that can be attached to the computing device might include microphone devices speaker or stereo systems video systems or other display device keyboard or keypad devices or other I O devices for use with specific applications such as card readers or other devices.

As mentioned above I O controller can interact with audio subsystem and or display subsystem . For example input through a microphone or other audio device can provide input or commands for one or more applications or functions of the computing device . Additionally audio output can be provided instead of or in addition to display output. In another example if display subsystem includes a touch screen the display device also acts as an input device which can be at least partially managed by I O controller . There can also be additional buttons or switches on the computing device to provide I O functions managed by I O controller .

In one embodiment I O controller manages devices such as accelerometers cameras light sensors or other environmental sensors or other hardware that can be included in the computing device . The input can be part of direct user interaction as well as providing environmental input to the system to influence its operations such as filtering for noise adjusting displays for brightness detection applying a flash for a camera or other features .

In one embodiment computing device includes power management that manages battery power usage charging of the battery and features related to power saving operation. Memory subsystem includes memory devices for storing information in computing device . Memory can include nonvolatile state does not change if power to the memory device is interrupted and or volatile state is indeterminate if power to the memory device is interrupted memory devices. Memory subsystem can store application data user data music photos documents or other data as well as system data whether long term or temporary related to the execution of the applications and functions of the computing device .

Elements of embodiments are also provided as a machine readable medium e.g. memory for storing the computer executable instructions e.g. instructions to implement any other processes discussed herein . The machine readable medium e.g. memory may include but is not limited to flash memory optical disks CD ROMs DVD ROMs RAMs EPROMs EEPROMs magnetic or optical cards or other types of machine readable media suitable for storing electronic or computer executable instructions. For example embodiments of the disclosure may be downloaded as a computer program e.g. BIOS which may be transferred from a remote computer e.g. a server to a requesting computer e.g. a client by way of data signals via a communication link e.g. a modem or network connection .

Connectivity includes hardware devices e.g. wireless and or wired connectors and communication hardware and software components e.g. drivers protocol stacks to enable the computing device to communicate with external devices. The computing device could be separate devices such as other computing devices wireless access points or base stations as well as peripherals such as headsets printers or other devices.

Connectivity can include multiple different types of connectivity. To generalize the computing device is illustrated with cellular connectivity and wireless connectivity . Cellular connectivity refers generally to cellular network connectivity provided by wireless carriers such as provided via GSM global system for mobile communications or variations or derivatives CDMA code division multiple access or variations or derivatives TDM time division multiplexing or variations or derivatives or other cellular service standards. Wireless connectivity refers to wireless connectivity that is not cellular and can include personal area networks such as Bluetooth Near Field etc. local area networks such as Wi Fi and or wide area networks such as WiMax or other wireless communication.

Peripheral connections include hardware interfaces and connectors as well as software components e.g. drivers protocol stacks to make peripheral connections. It will be understood that the computing device could both be a peripheral device to to other computing devices as well as have peripheral devices from connected to it. The computing device commonly has a docking connector to connect to other computing devices for purposes such as managing e.g. downloading and or uploading changing synchronizing content on computing device . Additionally a docking connector can allow computing device to connect to certain peripherals that allow the computing device to control content output for example to audiovisual or other systems.

In addition to a proprietary docking connector or other proprietary connection hardware the computing device can make peripheral connections via common or standards based connectors. Common types can include a Universal Serial Bus USB connector which can include any of a number of different hardware interfaces DisplayPort including MiniDisplayPort MDP High Definition Multimedia Interface HDMI Firewire or other type.

Reference in the specification to an embodiment one embodiment some embodiments or other embodiments means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiments is included in at least some embodiments but not necessarily all embodiments. The various appearances of an embodiment one embodiment or some embodiments are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiments. If the specification states a component feature structure or characteristic may might or could be included that particular component feature structure or characteristic is not required to be included. If the specification or claim refers to a or an element that does not mean there is only one of the elements. If the specification or claims refer to an additional element that does not preclude there being more than one of the additional element.

Furthermore the particular features structures functions or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments. For example a first embodiment may be combined with a second embodiment anywhere the particular features structures functions or characteristics associated with the two embodiments are not mutually exclusive.

While the disclosure has been described in conjunction with specific embodiments thereof many alternatives modifications and variations of such embodiments will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art in light of the foregoing description. The embodiments of the disclosure are intended to embrace all such alternatives modifications and variations as to fall within the broad scope of the appended claims.

In addition well known power ground connections to integrated circuit IC chips and other components may or may not be shown within the presented figures for simplicity of illustration and discussion and so as not to obscure the disclosure. Further arrangements may be shown in block diagram form in order to avoid obscuring the disclosure and also in view of the fact that specifics with respect to implementation of such block diagram arrangements are highly dependent upon the platform within which the present disclosure is to be implemented i.e. such specifics should be well within purview of one skilled in the art. Where specific details e.g. circuits are set forth in order to describe example embodiments of the disclosure it should be apparent to one skilled in the art that the disclosure can be practiced without or with variation of these specific details. The description is thus to be regarded as illustrative instead of limiting.

The following examples pertain to further embodiments. Specifics in the examples may be used anywhere in one or more embodiments. All optional features of the apparatus described herein may also be implemented with respect to a method or process.

For example in one embodiment an apparatus comprises a clamp coupled between a first power supply and a second power supply and a circuit to operate with the second power supply wherein the clamp is operable to adjust the second power supply when the apparatus enters a low power mode. In one embodiment the apparatus further comprises a comparator to compare the second power supply with a reference a counter to count up or down according to an output of the comparator and a decoder to convert an output of the counter to a digital control signal for adjusting the second power supply via the clamp.

In one embodiment the comparator is a clocked comparator. In one embodiment the clamp comprises p type devices coupled to the first and second power supplies wherein the digital control signal of the decoder is provided to the clamp for controlling the clamp. In one embodiment the decoder to generate a thermometer coded digital control signal or a binary weighted digital control signal. In one embodiment the circuit comprises combinational logic units and sequential units.

In one embodiment the apparatus further comprises a first oscillator to generate a signal of first frequency a second oscillator to generate a signal of second frequency and a multiplexer to selectively select one of the signals of first and second frequencies. In one embodiment the first oscillator to receive a reference voltage and wherein the second oscillator is coupled to the second power supply. In one embodiment the apparatus further comprises a first counter to count up or down in response to an output of the multiplexer. In one embodiment the apparatus further comprises a second counter to count up or down according to an output of the first counter. In one embodiment the apparatus further comprises a decoder to generate a digital signal according to an output of the second counter the digital signal to adjust the second power supply via the clamp. In one embodiment the low power mode is a sleep mode.

In another example a processor comprises a clamp coupled between a first power supply and a second power supply a power gate in parallel to the clamp and coupled between the first and second power supplies and a circuit to operate with the second power supply wherein the clamp is operable to adjust the second power supply to a voltage level above a retention level when the processor enters a low power mode and wherein the power gate is operable to provide the circuit with the second power supply substantially equal to the first power supply during normal operation.

In one embodiment the clamp and the power gate comprise p type devices coupled between the first and second power supplies. In one embodiment the circuit comprises at least one of combinational logic units and sequential units. In one embodiment the low power mode is a sleep mode. In one embodiment the retention level is below a level of the first power supply.

In one embodiment the processor further comprises a comparator to compare the second power supply with a reference a counter to count up or down according to an output of the comparator and a decoder to convert an output of the counter to a digital control signal for adjusting the second power supply via the clamp.

In another example a system comprises a memory a processor coupled to the memory the processor including a clamp coupled between a first power supply and a second power supply and a circuit to operate with the second power supply wherein the clamp is operable to adjust the second power supply when the apparatus enters a low power mode and a wireless interface for allowing the processor to communicate with another device.

In one embodiment the processor further comprises a comparator to compare the second power supply with a reference a counter to count up or down according to an output of the comparator and a decoder to convert an output of the counter to a digital control signal for adjusting the second power supply via the clamp.

An abstract is provided that will allow the reader to ascertain the nature and gist of the technical disclosure. The abstract is submitted with the understanding that it will not be used to limit the scope or meaning of the claims. The following claims are hereby incorporated into the detailed description with each claim standing on its own as a separate embodiment.

