---

title: Managing an assignment of unicast traffic channels to access terminals participating in a multicast session within a wireless communications network
abstract: In an embodiment, an access terminal sends a multicast session registration request to an access network. The access network determines whether to assign a unicast traffic channel (e.g., media access control (MAC) identifier (ID)) to the access terminal, for the access terminal to provide feedback (e.g., channel quality indicators (CQIs) associated with the multicast session, based on a number of access terminals that have been assigned unicast traffic channels for the multicast session and/or for applications other than the multicast session. The access network configures a traffic channel assignment message to include an identifier for the multicast session, and to further include an assignment of the unicast traffic channel if the determining step determines to assign the unicast traffic channel to the access terminal. The access network sends the traffic channel assignment message to the access terminal including at least the multicast session identifier.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08737239&OS=08737239&RS=08737239
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 08737239
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121031
---
This application is a Divisional Application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 411 937 filed Mar. 26 2009 entitled MANAGING AN ASSIGNMENT OF UNICAST TRAFFIC CHANNELS TO ACCESS TERMINALS PARTICIPATING IN A MULTICAST SESSION WITHIN A WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS NETWORK which claims priority to Provisional Application No. 61 040 521 entitled Methods of managing access to a unicast traffic channel for multicast session feedback within a wireless communications network filed Mar. 28 2008 each of which is assigned to the assignee hereof and hereby expressly incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

The invention relates to communications in a wireless telecommunication system and more particularly to managing an assignment of unicast traffic channels for access terminals participating in a multicast session within a wireless communications network.

Wireless communication systems have developed through various generations including a first generation analog wireless phone service 1G a second generation 2G digital wireless phone service including interim 2.5G and 2.75G networks and a third generation 3G high speed data Internet capable wireless service. There are presently many different types of wireless communication systems in use including Cellular and Personal Communications Service PCS systems. Examples of known cellular systems include the cellular Analog Advanced Mobile Phone System AMPS and digital cellular systems based on Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Frequency Division Multiple Access FDMA Time Division Multiple Access TDMA the Global System for Mobile access GSM variation of TDMA and newer hybrid digital communication systems using both TDMA and CDMA technologies.

The method for providing CDMA mobile communications was standardized in the United States by the Telecommunications Industry Association Electronic Industries Association in TIA EIA IS 95 A entitled Mobile Station Base Station Compatibility Standard for Dual Mode Wideband Spread Spectrum Cellular System referred to herein as IS 95. Combined AMPS CDMA systems are described in TIA EIA Standard IS 98. Other communications systems are described in the IMT 2000 UM or International Mobile Telecommunications System 2000 Universal Mobile Telecommunications System standards covering what are referred to as wideband CDMA WCDMA CDMA2000 such as CDMA2000 1xEV DO standards for example or TD SCDMA.

In wireless communication systems mobile stations handsets or access terminals AT receive signals from fixed position base stations also referred to as cell sites or cells that support communication links or service within particular geographic regions adjacent to or surrounding the base stations. Base stations provide entry points to an access network AN radio access network RAN which is generally a packet data network using standard Internet Engineering Task Force IETF based protocols that support methods for differentiating traffic based on Quality of Service QoS requirements. Therefore the base stations generally interact with ATs through an over the air interface and with the AN through Internet Protocol IP network data packets.

In wireless telecommunication systems Push to talk PTT capabilities are becoming popular with service sectors and consumers. PTT can support a dispatch voice service that operates over standard commercial wireless infrastructures such as CDMA FDMA TDMA GSM etc. In a dispatch model communication between endpoints ATs occurs within virtual groups wherein the voice of one talker is transmitted to one or more listeners. A single instance of this type of communication is commonly referred to as a dispatch call or simply a PTT call. A PTT call is an instantiation of a group which defines the characteristics of a call. A group in essence is defined by a member list and associated information such as group name or group identification.

Conventionally data packets within a wireless communication network have been configured to be sent to a single destination or access terminal. A transmission of data to a single destination is referred to as unicast . As mobile communications have increased the ability to transmit given data concurrently to multiple access terminals has become more important. Accordingly protocols have been adopted to support concurrent data transmissions of the same packet or message to multiple destinations or target access terminals. A broadcast refers to a transmission of data packets to all destinations or access terminals e.g. within a given cell served by a given service provider etc. while a multicast refers to a transmission of data packets to a given group of destinations or access terminals. In an example the given group of destinations or multicast group may include more than one and less than all of possible destinations or access terminals e.g. within a given group served by a given service provider etc. . However it is at least possible in certain situations that the multicast group comprises only one access terminal similar to a unicast or alternatively that the multicast group comprises all access terminals e.g. within a cell or sector similar to a broadcast.

Broadcasts and or multicasts may be performed within wireless communication systems in a number of ways such as performing a plurality of sequential unicast operations to accommodate the multicast group allocating a unique broadcast multicast channel BCH for handling multiple data transmissions at the same time and the like. A conventional system using a broadcast channel for push to talk communications is described in United States Patent Application Publication No. 2007 0049314 dated Mar. 1 2007 and entitled Push To Talk Group Call System Using CDMA 1x EVDO Cellular Network the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. As described in Publication No. 2007 0049314 a broadcast channel can be used for push to talk calls using conventional signaling techniques. Although the use of a broadcast channel may improve bandwidth requirements over conventional unicast techniques the conventional signaling of the broadcast channel can still result in additional overhead and or delay and may degrade system performance.

The 3Generation Partnership Project 2 3GPP2 defines a broadcast multicast service BCMCS specification for supporting multicast communications in CDMA2000 networks. Accordingly a version of 3GPP2 s BCMCS specification entitled CDMA2000 High Rate Broadcast Multicast Packet Data Air Interface Specification dated Feb. 14 2006 Version 1.0 C.S0054 A is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

In an embodiment an access terminal sends a multicast session registration request to an access network. The access network determines whether to assign a unicast traffic channel e.g. media access control MAC identifier ID to the access terminal for the access terminal to provide feedback e.g. channel quality indicators CQIs associated with the multicast session based on a number of access terminals that have been assigned unicast traffic channels for the multicast session and or for applications other than the multicast session. The access network configures a traffic channel assignment message to include an identifier for the multicast session and to further include an assignment of the unicast traffic channel if the determining step determines to assign the unicast traffic channel to the access terminal. The access network sends the traffic channel assignment message to the access terminal including at least the multicast session identifier.

Aspects of the invention are disclosed in the following description and related drawings directed to specific embodiments of the invention. Alternate embodiments may be devised without departing from the scope of the invention. Additionally well known elements of the invention will not be described in detail or will be omitted so as not to obscure the relevant details of the invention.

The words exemplary and or example are used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any embodiment described herein as exemplary and or example is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other embodiments. Likewise the term embodiments of the invention does not require that all embodiments of the invention include the discussed feature advantage or mode of operation.

Further many embodiments are described in terms of sequences of actions to be performed by for example elements of a computing device. It will be recognized that various actions described herein can be performed by specific circuits e.g. application specific integrated circuits ASICs by program instructions being executed by one or more processors or by a combination of both. Additionally these sequence of actions described herein can be considered to be embodied entirely within any form of computer readable storage medium having stored therein a corresponding set of computer instructions that upon execution would cause an associated processor to perform the functionality described herein. Thus the various aspects of the invention may be embodied in a number of different forms all of which have been contemplated to be within the scope of the claimed subject matter. In addition for each of the embodiments described herein the corresponding form of any such embodiments may be described herein as for example logic configured to perform the described action.

A High Data Rate HDR subscriber station referred to herein as an access terminal AT may be mobile or stationary and may communicate with one or more HDR base stations referred to herein as modem pool transceivers MPTs or base stations BS . An access terminal transmits and receives data packets through one or more modem pool transceivers to an HDR base station controller referred to as a modem pool controller MPC base station controller BSC and or packet control function PCF . Modem pool transceivers and modem pool controllers are parts of a network called an access network. An access network transports data packets between multiple access terminals.

The access network may be further connected to additional networks outside the access network such as a corporate intranet or the Internet and may transport data packets between each access terminal and such outside networks. An access terminal that has established an active traffic channel connection with one or more modem pool transceivers is called an active access terminal and is said to be in a traffic state. An access terminal that is in the process of establishing an active traffic channel connection with one or more modem pool transceivers is said to be in a connection setup state. An access terminal may be any data device that communicates through a wireless channel or through a wired channel for example using fiber optic or coaxial cables. An access terminal may further be any of a number of types of devices including but not limited to PC card compact flash external or internal modem or wireless or wireline phone. The communication link through which the access terminal sends signals to the modem pool transceiver is called a reverse link or traffic channel. The communication link through which a modem pool transceiver sends signals to an access terminal is called a forward link or traffic channel. As used herein the term traffic channel can refer to either a forward or reverse traffic channel.

Referring back to the components of the wireless network and interrelation of the elements of the exemplary embodiments of the invention are not limited to the configuration illustrated. System is merely exemplary and can include any system that allows remote access terminals such as wireless client computing devices to communicate over the air between and among each other and or between and among components connected via the air interface and RAN including without limitation carrier network the Internet and or other remote servers.

The RAN controls messages typically sent as data packets sent to a base station controller packet control function BSC PCF . The BSC PCF is responsible for signaling establishing and tearing down bearer channels i.e. data channels between a packet data service node PDSN and the access terminals . If link layer encryption is enabled the BSC PCF also encrypts the content before forwarding it over the air interface . The function of the BSC PCF is well known in the art and will not be discussed further for the sake of brevity. The carrier network may communicate with the BSC PCF by a network the Internet and or a public switched telephone network PSTN . Alternatively the BSC PCF may connect directly to the Internet or external network. Typically the network or Internet connection between the carrier network and the BSC PCF transfers data and the PSTN transfers voice information. The BSC PCF can be connected to multiple base stations BS or modem pool transceivers MPT . In a similar manner to the carrier network the BSC PCF is typically connected to the MPT BS by a network the Internet and or PSTN for data transfer and or voice information. The MPT BS can broadcast data messages wirelessly to the access terminals such as cellular telephone . The MPT BS BSC PCF and other components may form the RAN as is known in the art. However alternate configurations may also be used and the invention is not limited to the configuration illustrated. For example in another embodiment the functionality of the BSC PCF and one or more of the MPT BS may be collapsed into a single hybrid module having the functionality of both the BSC PCF and the MPT BS .

Referring to the broadcast serving node BSN may be configured to support multicast and broadcast services. The BSN communicates with the RAN e.g. the BSC PCF via a broadcast BC A connection and with the application server via the Internet . The BCA connection is used to transfer multicast and or broadcast messaging. Accordingly the application server sends unicast messaging to the PDSN via the Internet and sends multicast messaging to the BSN via the Internet .

Generally as will be described in greater detail below the RAN transmits multicast messages received from the BSN via the BCA connection over the air interface via a downlink channel e.g. a broadcast channel BCH a control channel etc. to one or more access terminals .

Referring to an access terminal here a wireless device such as a cellular telephone has a platform that can receive and execute software applications data and or commands transmitted from the RAN that may ultimately come from the carrier network the Internet and or other remote servers and networks. The platform can include a transceiver operably coupled to an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other processor microprocessor logic circuit or other data processing device. The ASIC or other processor executes the application programming interface API layer that interfaces with any resident programs in the memory of the wireless device. The memory can be comprised of read only or random access memory RAM and ROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. The platform also can include a local database that can hold applications not actively used in memory . The local database is typically a flash memory cell but can be any secondary storage device as known in the art such as magnetic media EEPROM optical media tape soft or hard disk or the like. The internal platform components can also be operably coupled to external devices such as antenna display push to talk button and keypad among other components as is known in the art.

Accordingly an embodiment of the invention can include an access terminal including the ability to perform the functions described herein. As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art the various logic elements can be embodied in discrete elements software modules executed on a processor or any combination of software and hardware to achieve the functionality disclosed herein. For example ASIC memory API and local database may all be used cooperatively to load store and execute the various functions disclosed herein and thus the logic to perform these functions may be distributed over various elements. Alternatively the functionality could be incorporated into one discrete component. Therefore the features of the access terminal in are to be considered merely illustrative and the invention is not limited to the illustrated features or arrangement.

The wireless communication between the access terminal and the RAN can be based on different technologies such as code division multiple access CDMA WCDMA time division multiple access TDMA frequency division multiple access FDMA Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing OFDM the Global System for Mobile Communications GSM or other protocols that may be used in a wireless communications network or a data communications network. The data communication is typically between the client device MPT BS and BSC PCF . The BSC PCF can be connected to multiple data networks such as the carrier network PSTN the Internet a virtual private network and the like thus allowing the access terminal access to a broader communication network. As discussed in the foregoing and known in the art voice transmission and or data can be transmitted to the access terminals from the RAN using a variety of networks and configurations. Accordingly the illustrations provided herein are not intended to limit the embodiments of the invention and are merely to aid in the description of aspects of embodiments of the invention.

In AT which is one of a plurality of access terminals in communication with the RAN requests to initiate a PTT session or multicast session. Accordingly AT sends a PTT call request and a multicast group registration request e.g. a StorageBLOBNotification message which will be discussed in greater detail below to the application server e.g. a PTT server . Also in AT requests to register for the multicast or PTT session with the RAN .

In upon receiving the request to register for the PTT session from AT the RAN sends to AT i.e. the PTT session initiator a traffic channel assignment TCA message including i an individual media access control MAC ID for identifying itself i.e. AT on the forward link and ii a group MAC ID for identifying the PTT session. The concept of the group MAC ID is discussed in greater detail in co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 831 298 entitled Systems and Methods for Improving Multicasting Over a Forward Link filed on Jul. 31 2007 and hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. The individual MAC ID is used to assign or allocate access to the reverse link traffic channel or RTCH. For example a multicast group member may access the RTCH to speak to the multicast group to report channel quality etc.

Accordingly in subsequent communication AT will associate messages received on the forward link or downlink i.e. from the RAN to AT which include the group MAC ID as associated with the PTT session initiated by AT in and AT will associate messages received on the forward link or downlink which include the individual MAC ID as intended for AT . Thus the individual MAC ID is a unicast identifier which identifies a single AT whereas the group MAC ID is a multicast identifier that identifies the PTT session or multicast group.

Next in the application server announces the PTT session to each multicast group member for the PTT session. For example the application server forwards the announce message to the RAN via the PDSN and or BSN and the RAN transmits the announce message over the air interface to a plurality of ATs.

In a first AT or first responder among ATs . . . N AT responds to the announce message by sending an Accept Call message to the application server e.g. a PTT server and registering for the announced PTT session with the RAN . For example AT may send a StorageBLOBNotification message which includes a Group Identification ID for the PTT session e.g. which was initially included in the announce message and a flow number RLPFlowNumber . StorageBLOBNotification messages and RLPFlowNumbers are discussed in greater detail in the co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 831 298 entitled Systems and Methods for Improving Multicasting Over a Forward Link filed on Jul. 31 2007 which was incorporated by reference above in its entirety.

While not shown in the user of AT may begin the PTT session by speaking upon receiving a call status message from the application or PTT server e.g. subsequent to one or more multicast group members responding to the announce message on the reverse link traffic channel.

In the RAN sends to AT a traffic channel assignment TCA message including i an individual or unicast MAC ID for identifying itself i.e. AT on the forward link and ii the group MAC ID. Accordingly in subsequent communications AT will associate messages received on the forward link or downlink i.e. from the RAN to AT which include the group MAC ID as associated with the PTT session initiated by AT in and AT will associate message received on the forward link or downlink which include the individual MAC ID as intended for AT .

In AT sends a channel quality indicator CQI on the reverse link traffic channel or RTCH to the RAN indicating a measured channel quality of the forward link at AT . The CQI message sent from AT to the RAN in is used by the RAN to adjust transmission parameters for downlink multicast transmissions of the PTT session as is known in the art.

Next in a plurality of additional ATs among ATs . . . N respond to the announce message by sending an Accept Call message to the application server e.g. a PTT server and registering for the announced PTT session with the RAN . For example each AT attempting to register for the PTT session may send a StorageBLOBNotification message as discussed above with respect to .

In for each AT among AT . . . N requesting registration in the RAN sends a traffic channel assignment TCA message including an individual MAC ID and the group MAC ID for identifying the PTT session. Accordingly in subsequent communication each AT among AT . . . N will associate messages received on the forward link or downlink i.e. from the RAN to AT . . . N which include the group MAC ID as associated with the PTT session initiated by AT in and each AT among AT . . . N will associate messages received on the forward link or uplink which include an individual MAC ID as being intended for one particular AT among AT . . . N.

In each AT that has registered for the PTT session and has been assigned an individual MAC ID i.e. has been allocated RTCH access sends a CQI to the RAN indicating a measured channel quality of its forward link. As discussed above the CQI messages sent from the ATs to the RAN are used by the RAN to adjust transmission parameters for downlink multicast transmissions of the PTT session. For example the CQI reporting may be performed on a periodic basis.

As will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art as the number of multicast group members i.e. ATs having registered for the PTT session increases the amount of traffic on the reverse link traffic channels e.g. if a different R TCH is allocated to each multicast group member increases e.g. due to the increased reporting of CQIs and or messaging associated with the reverse pilot control channel the error rate control channel the DSC etc. . Also systems typically limit the total number of MAC IDs which the RAN is capable of assigning. For example the 1x EV DO standard sets a hard limit of assignable MAC IDs e.g. of 128 total MAC ID . The hard limit of 128 MAC IDs for example effectively reduces the number of MAC IDs to much lower numbers because a number of MAC IDs may already be assigned to other users for other applications e.g. other than those ATs participating in the PTT session . In the above example of one MAC ID is assigned to the group or PTT session group MAC ID and N individual MAC IDs are assigned to each of the N ATs. The total number of assigned individual MAC IDs increases further if some ATs have multiple sectors in its Active Set. Thus the MAC ID assignment process of may not be capable of scaling to higher density multicast groups because at least N 1 MAC IDs may be required to support a PTT session having N participating ATs.

As discussed above the number of MAC IDs available for assignment to prospective multicast group members for a PTT session can be relatively limited. Accordingly a MAC ID provisioning process which is based on the number of MAC IDs available to the RAN is described below.

In upon receiving a request to register for the PTT session from AT the RAN sends to AT a traffic channel assignment TCA message including i an individual media access control MAC ID for identifying itself on the forward link and ii a group MAC ID for identifying the PTT session. It will be appreciated that the RAN can be configured to interpret a multicast registration message as an implicit request for a traffic channel without an explicit traffic channel request e.g. a Connection Request message being sent from the requesting AT. Alternatively the multicast registration message can be bundled with a Connection Request message or the Connection Request message can be sent separate from the multicast registration message. In these cases the RAN assigns the traffic channel to the requesting AT in response to the Connection Request message. Accordingly in subsequent communication AT will associate messages received on the forward link or downlink i.e. from the RAN to AT which include the group MAC ID as associated with the PTT session initiated by AT in and the RAN will associate messages received on the reverse link or uplink i.e. from AT to the RAN which include the individual MAC ID as being from AT . Also in the RAN increments a counter Current MAC ID Number which is described below in greater detail with respect to .

Next in the application server announces the PTT session to each multicast group member for the PTT session. For example the application server forwards the announce message to the RAN via the PDSN and or BSN and the RAN transmits the announce message over the air interface to the ATs . . . N.

In a first AT or first responder AT among ATs . . . N responds to the announce message by accepting the announced PTT call and registering for the announced PTT session. Accordingly AT sends a PTT call request to the application server e.g. a PTT server and a registration request to the RAN . For example AT may send a StorageBLOBNotification message which includes a Group Identification ID for the PTT session e.g. which was initially included in the announce message and a flow number RLPFlowNumber .

While not shown in the user of AT may begin the PTT session e.g. by speaking after receiving a call status message from the PTT server . Also in the RAN increments the counter Current MAC ID Number which is described below in greater detail with respect to .

Next instead of simply sending an individual MAC ID and group ID to the AT requesting registration AT in the RAN determines whether the number of currently assigned MAC IDs Current MAC ID Number is above a MAC ID threshold. The MAC ID threshold may be set by a system designer based on the number of MAC IDs expected to be available for a given wireless communication protocol. For example 1x EV DO is capable of assigning a total of 128 MAC IDs. Thus for 1x EV DO the MAC ID threshold may be set to for example 66. In another example the MAC ID threshold need not be a static or fixed number but can change based on one or more system criteria. For example the MAC ID threshold may be set to a given percentage e.g. 75 of the number of available MAC IDs i.e. the number of assignable MAC IDs that have not yet been assigned .

For convenience of explanation assume that Current MAC ID Number is less than the MAC ID threshold. Thus once the RAN determines the Current MAC ID Number is less than the MAC ID threshold the process advances to . For example because AT is the first responder to the announce message from it is not likely that Current MAC ID Number is greater than the MAC ID threshold because the RAN has yet to assign any MAC IDs for the PTT session other than the group MAC ID and individual MAC ID for the PTT session initiator AT . However it is understood that in other embodiments of the present invention simply being a first responder to a PTT announce message need not imply that the MAC ID threshold cannot be exceeded. For example if other PTT sessions are active and the other active PTT sessions are assigned all of the MAC IDs assignable by the RAN Current MAC ID Number may exceed the MAC ID threshold despite AT being a first responder.

In the RAN sends to the current AT requesting registration e.g. AT . . . N a traffic channel assignment TCA message including i an individual MAC ID for identifying itself on the reverse link and ii the group MAC ID for identifying the PTT session. Accordingly in subsequent communication the current AT requesting registration or AT will associate messages received on the forward link or downlink i.e. from the RAN to AT which include the group MAC ID as associated with the PTT session initiated by AT in . Also in the RAN increments Current MAC ID Number.

In each registered AT e.g. AT etc. sends a channel quality indicator CQI to the RAN indicating a measured channel quality of its forward link as described above with respect to and of . The CQI message sent from each registered AT to the RAN in is used by the RAN to adjust transmission parameters for downlink multicast transmissions of the PTT session.

Next in another AT among ATs . . . N attempts to accept the announced PTT call and register for the PTT session as discussed above with respect to e.g. by sending a StorageBLOBNotification or other registration message as discussed above . In the RAN again determines whether Current MAC ID Number is above the MAC ID threshold. If the RAN determines that Current MAC ID Number is not above the MAC ID threshold the process returns to and both an individual MAC ID and group MAC ID are sent to the current AT requesting registration from the previous iteration of and so on. Otherwise if Current MAC ID Number is determined to exceed the MAC ID threshold the process advances to .

In the RAN sends a traffic channel assignment message including the group MAC ID but not an individual or unicast MAC ID to the current AT requesting registration from a previous iteration of . In the RAN sends a supplemental traffic channel assignment message including the group MAC ID but not an individual or unicast MAC ID to each AT previously assigned an individual MAC ID if the previously assigned AT s do not need to maintain their individual MAC IDs as will be discussed below in greater detail.

The RAN may determine which multicast group member s or AT s do not need to maintain an individual MAC ID for example based on a certain period of data inactivity. In an example the RAN starts an inactivity timer when the RAN detects that Current MAC ID Number rises above the MAC ID threshold. If no data is transmitted to a given AT on the given AT s forward traffic channel FTCH and if no data is received from the given AT on the given AT s reverse traffic channel RTCH before the timer expires the RAN sends the TCA message in to de allocate the individual MAC ID i.e. individual traffic channel previously assigned to the AT as will be discussed in greater detail below with respect to . In this example if the above mentioned AT is the current floor holder or speaker or is running an application s other than the PTT session the RAN will be able to detect data activity before the inactivity timer expires i.e. activity data received from the AT and or non PTT activity . In this case the RAN need not de allocate the traffic channel and the supplemental traffic channel message would not be sent to the AT in .

After sending the traffic channel assignment messages in the previously sent individual MAC IDs for ATs to which the supplemental traffic channel assignment messages are sent are considered to be withdrawn by the RAN . Thus the RAN adjusts e.g. decreases the Current MAC ID Number to account for the new number of assigned MAC IDs after factoring out the withdrawn MAC IDs. Also subsequent to while not shown explicitly within at the RAN in response to subsequent registration requests e.g. as in etc. from ATs requesting to register to the PTT session the RAN transmits traffic channel assignments with the group MAC ID only and not an individual MAC ID for the requesting AT.

In each of ATs . . . N monitor the multicast or PTT session based on the group MAC ID. In other words any downlink multicast communications from the RAN addressed to the group MAC ID are decoded at the multicast group members or ATs. However the ATs . . . N that are not assigned an individual MAC ID e.g. due to withdrawal in etc. do not report periodic CQIs or other feedback on the reverse link channel e.g. because they do not have individual MAC IDs which are used to allocate access to the reverse link channel such as the RTCH . Accordingly this mode of operation may be referred to as non feedback mode whereas operation where periodic CQI responses tagged with an individual MAC ID identifying the reporting AT are reported may be referred to as feedback mode. In an example during feedback mode the RAN may control forward link transmission parameters based on the feedback e.g. CQI responses received from the ATs and during non feedback mode the RAN may set the forward link transmission parameters relatively conservatively e.g. similar to forward link transmission parameters used on the forward link control channel .

In each of ATs . . . N determines whether to speak to the multicast group e.g. instead of merely listening or monitoring the multicast session . If a given multicast group member determines to speak to the group the given multicast group member sends a connection request to the RAN requesting reverse link channel access .

In the RAN receives the reverse link channel access request from the AT and determines whether to permit reverse link access. For example the RAN may determine whether the current number of assigned MAC IDs e.g. including both group MAC IDs and individual MAC IDs exceeds a generic system threshold e.g. which may be different than the MAC ID threshold discussed above . If the RAN determines that the total current number of assigned MAC IDs exceeds the generic system threshold the RAN denies RTCH access and no traffic channel assignment TCA message including an individual MAC ID is sent to the requesting AT. Otherwise if the RAN determines that the total current number of assigned MAC IDs does not exceed the generic system threshold the RAN permits RTCH access by sending a traffic channel assignment TCA message including an individual MAC ID to the requesting AT. The generic system threshold does not necessarily correspond to the MAC ID Threshold but rather can be higher than the MAC ID threshold. The generic system threshold may correspond for example to a system limit for the number of assignable MAC IDs. Likewise the total current number of assigned MAC IDs does not necessarily correspond to Current MAC ID Number because applications other than the PTT session may be using other MAC IDs e.g. other PTT sessions etc. .

Accordingly if the RAN determines to permit reverse link channel access in the RAN sends a supplemental traffic channel assignment message to the requesting AT including an individual MAC ID to allocate the reverse link traffic channel to the requesting AT thereby granting the requesting AT the floor. The requesting AT may then send data to the PTT server via the RAN over the RTCH which the PTT server may then forward to the multicast group members participating in the PTT session . Further while not illustrated in the RAN may also send a traffic channel assignment message including only the group MAC ID and not an individual MAC ID to the old floor holder e.g. PTT initiator AT in to withdraw the individual MAC ID from the old floor holder e.g. because AT no longer has the floor for the PTT session after a certain period of data inactivity.

While not illustrated in the RAN may from time to time send supplemental traffic channel assignment messages to ATs granted reverse link channel access as in after a certain period of data inactivity on their individual traffic channels.

Further as discussed above CQI reports are used during feedback mode to adjust downlink transmission parameters such that multicast group members can receive multicast messages in a PTT session with an adequate signal quality. In non feedback mode CQI reports are generally not sent e.g. except when the RTCH is explicitly requested as in of . Thus in non feedback mode the RAN may establish relatively conservative transmission characteristics e.g. such as the control channel data rate to account for the lack of CQIs from the multicast group members.

Accordingly it will be appreciated that the MAC ID assignment process described above with respect to may scale with the number of multicast group members without necessarily being limited by the number of available MAC IDs.

Those of skill in the art will appreciate that information and signals may be represented using any of a variety of different technologies and techniques. For example data instructions commands information signals bits symbols and chips that may be referenced throughout the above description may be represented by voltages currents electromagnetic waves magnetic fields or particles optical fields or particles or any combination thereof.

Further those of skill in the art will appreciate that the various illustrative logical blocks modules circuits and algorithm steps described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks modules circuits and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled artisans may implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the present invention.

The various illustrative logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration.

The methods sequences and or algorithms described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. If implemented in software the functions may be stored on or transmitted over as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium. Computer readable media includes both computer storage media and communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A storage media may be any available media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Also any connection is properly termed a computer readable medium. For example if the software is transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of medium. Disk and disc as used herein includes compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

While the foregoing disclosure shows illustrative embodiments of the invention it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims. The functions steps and or actions of the method claims in accordance with the embodiments of the invention described herein need not be performed in any particular order. Furthermore although elements of the invention may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated.

