---

title: System and method for requesting an updated user location
abstract: A system and method is disclosed for requesting an updated location, including a point of interest, from a user for display on an interactive map. On receiving from an interested user a request for a point of interest associated with a subscribed user's current location, a request is transmitted to the subscribed user to check-in to the point of interest. In response to the request, the subscribed user selects a selected point of interest from a selection list. A representation of the subscribed user and the selected point of interest is then provided for display on an interactive map associated with the interested user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09325797&OS=09325797&RS=09325797
owner: Google Inc.
number: 09325797
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120229
---
The subject technology relates generally to social networks and in particular determining the current location of a user in a social network.

GPS enabled cell phones have been integrated with interactive maps to provide subscribed users the ability to view their locations and the locations of their friends on interactive maps. In this manner a user may load a map on a cell phone to view the location s of the user s friends in real time. GPS enabled cell phones may also been integrated with a check in feature that enables a user to select in real time a location near the user s current GPS location that the user wishes to announce to other users for example in a social network where the user is located.

The subject technology provides a system and computer implemented method for requesting an updated location including a point of interest from a user for display on an interactive map. According to one aspect the method includes receiving from an interested user a request for an identifiable point of interest corresponding to a subscribed user s current location transmitting to the subscribed user the request receiving from the subscribed user a selected point of interest and providing for display on an interactive map associated with the interested user a representation of the subscribed user and the selected point of interest. In another aspect the method may be performed by instructions stored on a machine readable medium. In this regard the instructions when executed may perform a method including sending to a subscribed user a request for an identifiable point of interest corresponding to the subscribed user s current location receiving in response to the request a point of interest associated with the subscribed user and providing for display at a user interface associated with one or more interested users a representation of the subscribed user and the received point of interest.

In other aspects a system includes a processor and a memory the memory including instructions that when cause the processor to receive a request for a point of interest related to a subscribed user s current location transmit to a first computing device associated with the subscribed user a request to check in to a point of interest receive from the first computing device a selected point of interest the selected point of interest being selected from a list of locations determined to be proximate to a geographic location of the subscribed user and provide for display at a second computing device associated with an interested user a representation of the subscribed user and the selected point of interest.

It is understood that other configurations of the subject technology will become readily apparent to those skilled in the art from the following detailed description wherein various configurations of the subject technology are shown and described by way of illustration. As will be realized the subject technology is capable of other and different configurations and its several details are capable of modification in various other respects all without departing from the scope of the subject technology. Accordingly the drawings and detailed description are to be regarded as illustrative in nature and not as restrictive.

Centralized servers may be configured to provide one or more application programming interfaces APIs for the integration of mobile to web extension applications. For example a social network hosted by centralized servers may include a social check in application that allows users of the social network to check in to a physical place using a geographically aware computing device and share their location with their friends or contacts. The geographically aware computing device may be configured with software integrated with the social network and configured to perform a check in by associating the user s current geographic location with one or more identifiable points of interest for example places businesses or recreational areas or the like and enabling the user to provide the one or more identifiable points of interest to one or more other users. The software may for example use a GPS device integrated into the computing device to find the user s current location and then present to the user for selection a list of points of interest based on the current location. When a point of interest is selected the computing device may send a message for example over network to centralized servers to supplement the user s current geographic location displayed in the social network with the selected point of interest.

In one aspect centralized servers may be configured to provide for display a graphical user interface for example a web page including an interactive map to computing devices and or . Interactive map may display the current locations of users who have performed a check in using their computing device. In the depicted example a first computing device for example a GPS enabled smart phone may be integrated with a check in feature that enables a first user to send a first signal for example an indication announcement message or the like to centralized servers informing centralized servers that first user is at a point of interest for example a business establishment at or near the first user s current geographic location . On receiving first signal centralized servers may send a second signal for example an indication announcement message or the like to one or more second users for example contacts of user in a social network who are also using similarly configured computing device informing the one or more second users that first user is at the point of interest. Signal may include for example generating a representation of first user along with information about the point of interest on the previously described interactive map.

In another example first computing device may be integrated with software that provides a graphical user interface configured to display to a first user a group for example a list of one or more second users . The group of second users may be subscribed to the social network and or designated or contacts of first user or users of the social network who can view or receive messages from first user . On selection of a second user first computing device may send a first signal for example an indication announcement message request or the like to centralized server representative of a request for a point of interest corresponding to second user s current geographic location. On receiving first signal centralized server may send a second signal for example an indication announcement message request or the like to second computing device representative of a request for second user to check in to a point of interest. Second user may then perform a check in to a point of interest in the previously described manner.

While a geographic location of second user may be viewable on interactive map a point of interest for example a place of business recreational area or the like corresponding to the geographic location of second user may not be readily perceivable. Interactive map may be configured to display one or more selectable graphic representations of second user at a location on interactive map corresponding to the actual geographic location of second user . On selecting a representation of second user for example by a click of a mouse first user may request that second user perform a check in action at the second user s current location. Second user may receive a message on his or her computing device for example stating first user wants to know where you are at. Automatically or upon initiation by second user for example on selecting a graphical confirmation button a computing device associated with second user may provide its current geographic location to a check in service for example using software executed by the device or integrated with the user s social network .

Check in service may present second user with a list of points of interest for example businesses or public recreational areas proximate to the current geographic location of second user . Second user may then select from the list the point of interest he or she is currently visiting and location service is updated with details about the visited point of interest. In one aspect the computing device associated with second user provides location service with the selected point of interest. In another aspect check in service may be in communication or integrated with location service for example via a social network and provide location service with the selected point of interest. Location service may then send a message to first user informing first user of the selected point of interest. To this end neither user needs to be aware of the other user s phone number email address or other contact information or spend any effort to contact the other user to request or receive the point of interest.

In another aspect on discovering a user s geographic location or selected point of interest location service may automatically perform an internet search to retrieve supplemental details about the geographic location or selected point of interest and then display those details in addition to user specific details to first user . In a further aspect the location service may provide selectable details about the geographic location or selected point of interest to second user to include in message sent to first user . For example if second user has checked in to a movie theater a list of movies may be displayed so that second user may select the movie that he or she is currently watching. If second user is at a bar second user may be presented with a list of drinks offered at the bar and may select what type of drink for example Guinness on tap he or she is consuming.

In other aspects a point of interest selected by second user may also be broadcast to one or more other interested recipients. In this regard the location service may determine that one or more third users may be interested in the second user s location at the time of the check in action. Who receives the broadcast may be based on for example a determination that the one or more third users belong to a group in common with first user and or second user for example they are friends that they regularly frequent the place of check in for example they have checked in to the place at least a predetermined number of times within the last 30 days and or the like. In another example the geographic location or selected point of interest may be broadcast to the one or more third users if second user has traveled outside a predetermined area for example determined by user or by a mean and standard deviation of geographic locations visited by second user or user is in an unexpected location for example the user is in NY rather than California .

Processor may be configured to execute code or instructions to perform the operations and functionality described herein manage request flow and address mappings and to perform calculations and generate commands. Processor is configured to monitor and control the operation of the components in server . The processor may be a general purpose microprocessor a microcontroller a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA a programmable logic device PLD a controller a state machine gated logic discrete hardware components or a combination of the foregoing. One or more sequences of instructions may be stored as firmware on a ROM within processor . Likewise one or more sequences of instructions may be software stored and read from system memory ROM or received from a storage medium for example via I O interface . ROM system memory and storage medium represent examples of machine or computer readable media on which instructions code may be executable by processor . Machine or computer readable media may generally refer to any medium or media used to provide instructions to processor including both volatile media such as dynamic memory used for system memory or for buffers within processor and non volatile media such as electronic media optical media and magnetic media.

In some aspects processor is configured to communicate with one or more external devices for example via I O interface . Processor is further configured to read data stored in system memory and or storage medium and to transfer the read data to the one or more external devices in response to a request from the one or more external devices. The read data may include one or more web pages and or other software presentation to be rendered on the one or more external devices. The one or more external devices may include a computing system such as a personal computer a server a workstation a laptop computer PDA smart phone and the like.

In some aspects system memory represents volatile memory used to temporarily store data and information used to manage device . According to one aspect of the subject technology system memory is random access memory RAM such as double data rate DDR RAM. Other types of RAM also may be used to implement system memory . Memory may be implemented using a single RAM module or multiple RAM modules. While system memory is depicted as being part of device those skilled in the art will recognize that system memory may be separate from device without departing from the scope of the subject technology. Alternatively system memory may be a non volatile memory such as a magnetic disk flash memory peripheral SSD and the like.

I O interface may be configured to be coupled to one or more external devices to receive data from the one or more external devices and to send data to the one or more external devices. I O interface may include both electrical and physical connections for operably coupling I O interface to processor for example via the bus . I O interface is configured to communicate data addresses and control signals between the internal components attached to bus for example processor and one or more external devices for example a hard drive . I O interface may be configured to implement a standard interface such as Serial Attached SCSI SAS Fiber Channel interface PCI Express PCIe SATA USB and the like. I O interface may be configured to implement only one interface. Alternatively I O interface may be configured to implement multiple interfaces which are individually selectable using a configuration parameter selected by a user or programmed at the time of assembly. I O interface may include one or more buffers for buffering transmissions between one or more external devices and bus and or the internal devices operably attached thereto.

Those of skill in the art would appreciate that the various illustrative blocks modules elements components methods and algorithms described herein may be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative blocks modules elements components methods and algorithms have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled artisans may implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application. Various components and blocks may be arranged differently e.g. arranged in a different order or partitioned in a different way all without departing from the scope of the subject technology.

It is understood that the specific order or hierarchy of steps in the processes disclosed is an illustration of exemplary approaches. Based upon design preferences it is understood that the specific order or hierarchy of steps in the processes may be rearranged. Some of the steps may be performed simultaneously. The accompanying method claims present elements of the various steps in a sample order and are not meant to be limited to the specific order or hierarchy presented.

The previous description is provided to enable any person skilled in the art to practice the various aspects described herein. The previous description provides various examples of the subject technology and the subject technology is not limited to these examples. Various modifications to these aspects will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art and the generic principles defined herein may be applied to other aspects. Thus the claims are not intended to be limited to the aspects shown herein but is to be accorded the full scope consistent with the language claims wherein reference to an element in the singular is not intended to mean one and only one unless specifically so stated but rather one or more. Unless specifically stated otherwise the term some refers to one or more. Pronouns in the masculine e.g. his include the feminine and neuter gender e.g. her and its and vice versa. Headings and subheadings if any are used for convenience only and do not limit the invention.

The term website as used herein may include any aspect of a website including one or more web pages one or more servers used to host or store web related content and the like. Accordingly the term website may be used interchangeably with the terms web page and server. The predicate words configured to operable to and programmed to do not imply any particular tangible or intangible modification of a subject but rather are intended to be used interchangeably. For example a processor configured to monitor and control an operation or a component may also mean the processor being programmed to monitor and control the operation or the processor being operable to monitor and control the operation. Likewise a processor configured to execute code can be construed as a processor programmed to execute code or operable to execute code.

A phrase such as an aspect does not imply that such aspect is essential to the subject technology or that such aspect applies to all configurations of the subject technology. A disclosure relating to an aspect may apply to all configurations or one or more configurations. An aspect may provide one or more examples. A phrase such as an aspect may refer to one or more aspects and vice versa. A phrase such as an embodiment does not imply that such embodiment is essential to the subject technology or that such embodiment applies to all configurations of the subject technology. A disclosure relating to an embodiment may apply to all embodiments or one or more embodiments. An embodiment may provide one or more examples. A phrase such as an embodiment may refer to one or more embodiments and vice versa. A phrase such as a configuration does not imply that such configuration is essential to the subject technology or that such configuration applies to all configurations of the subject technology. A disclosure relating to a configuration may apply to all configurations or one or more configurations. A configuration may provide one or more examples. A phrase such as a configuration may refer to one or more configurations and vice versa.

The word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other aspects or designs.

All structural and functional equivalents to the elements of the various aspects described throughout this disclosure that are known or later come to be known to those of ordinary skill in the art are expressly incorporated herein by reference and are intended to be encompassed by the claims. Moreover nothing disclosed herein is intended to be dedicated to the public regardless of whether such disclosure is explicitly recited in the claims. No claim element is to be construed under the provisions of 35 U.S.C. 112 sixth paragraph unless the element is expressly recited using the phrase means for or in the case of a method claim the element is recited using the phrase step for. Furthermore to the extent that the term include have or the like is used in the description or the claims such term is intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprise as comprise is interpreted when employed as a transitional word in a claim.

