---

title: Devices and methods to detect and quantify trace gases
abstract: Sensing devices based on a surface acoustic wave (“SAW”) device coated with an absorbent crystalline or amorphous layer for detecting at least one chemical analyte in a gaseous carrier. Methods for detecting the presence of a chemical analyte in a gaseous carrier using such devices are also disclosed. The sensing devices and methods for their use may be configured for sensing chemical analytes selected from the group consisting of water vapor, carbon dioxide, methanol, ethanol, carbon monoxide, nitric oxide, nitrous oxide, organic amines, organic compounds containing NOgroups, halogenated hydrocarbons, acetone, hexane, toluene, isopropanol, alcohols, alkanes, alkenes, benzene, functionalized aromatics, ammonia (NH), phosgene (COCl), sulfur mustard, nerve agents, sulfur dioxide, tetrahydrofuran (THF) and methyltertbutyl ether (MTBE) and combinations thereof.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09329154&OS=09329154&RS=09329154
owner: Sandia Corporation
number: 09329154
owner_city: Albuquerque
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121002
---
This application claims the benefit U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 544 078 filed on 6 Oct. 2011 and entitled MATERIALS METHODS AND DEVICES TO DETECT AND QUANTIFY VOLATILE ORGANIC COMPOUND CONCENTRATIONS IN AN ATMOSPHERE the entirety of which is incorporated herein by reference.

The United States Government has rights in this invention pursuant to Contract No. DE AC04 94AL85000 between the United States Department of Energy and Sandia Corporation for the operation of the Sandia National Laboratories.

Porous coordination polymers PCP are a class of hybrid inorganic organic typically crystalline materials amorphous PCPs are also known whose structure and properties can be rationally tailored by the selection of their component chemical moieties. Distinguishing features of a PCP are coordinating metallic groups causing organic ligands to self organize into two or three dimensional open pore structures. These structures retain their porosity upon removal of guest molecules e.g. a solvent or other similar molecule enabling them to serve as reversible sorbents for a variety of molecular species. Two broad subcategories of PCPs reported in the literature include but are not limited to metal organic frameworks MOFs and zeolitic imidazolate frameworks ZIFs . Covalent organic frameworks COFs are a related class of porous materials in which the nanoporous structure comprises a network of main group atoms typically silicon and or boron covalently bonded to organic linking groups. Examples of PCPs include the series of structures known as iso reticular MOFs IRMOFs composed of zinc ions coordinated to carboxylate anions and the so called MIL series of iron chromium and aluminum carboxylates MIL stands for Materials of Institut Lavoisier a research center associated with Versailles Saint Quentin en Yvelines University France . Other well known examples of PCPs include but are not limited to CuBTC also known as HKUST 1 which is short hand nomenclature for copper II benzene 1 3 5 tricarboxylate chemical formula Cu BTC HO NOTT 100 biphenyl 3 3 5 5 tetracarboxylic acid NOTT 101 terphenyl 3 3 5 5 tetracarboxylic acid and ZIF 8 Zn mim .2HO where mim stands for methylimidazole .

PCP coatings on sensors possess a number of features that make them potentially superior to polymers and other coatings currently used to impart sensitivity and selectivity to chemical sensors. Firstly PCP crystal structures and the chemical makeup of their pore structure can be tailored so that they have high selective affinity for a variety of analyte species. This contrasts with other nanoporous materials such as zeolites aerogels synthetic opals and nanotubes both carbon and non carbon based . Secondly PCPs have been observed to possess BET surface areas of up to 7000 m g a result approximately seven times greater than a zeolite. This makes these materials potentially highly effective sorbents that would increase sensitivity in sensors detecting either mass or stress changes. Third the ability to tailor PCP pore sizes by changing the chemical nature of the linking molecule changing the metal center or changing the pore geometry enables both the chemical selectivity and adsorption properties to be optimized in a rational way. Fourth effective mechanical linkages between PCP crystalline or amorphous layers and a substrate can be created by covalent bonding schemes that anchor the PCP to the sensor surface. These qualities result in robust stable sensors capable of generating large signals from small quantities of targeted analytes.

The need for real time compact and inexpensive chemical detectors is important for applications such as hazardous gas detection personal exposure monitors and humidity measurement. However these applications pose many technical challenges because they require high sensitivity and specificity in small economical packages with low power consumption. New sensing concepts based on micro electrical mechanical systems MEMS offer a potential solution that can be mass produced at low cost. Embodiments of the invention disclosed herein are directed to sensing devices based on a surface acoustic wave SAW device having an absorbent layer for detecting at least one chemical analyte in a gaseous carrier. Embodiments of methods for detecting the presence of a chemical analyte in a gaseous carrier using such devices are also disclosed.

In an embodiment a sensing device for detecting at least one chemical analyte is disclosed. The sensing device includes a SAW sensor device having at least one surface and a substantially continuous or substantially discontinuous absorbent layer bonded to the at least one surface of the SAW sensor device. The absorbent layer includes a PCP having a porous structure. The absorbent layer may be crystalline in nature with a substantially repeating lattice structure or the absorbent layer may be amorphous. Adsorption of at least one chemical analyte by the PCP causes mass changes in the PCP that dampens propagation of a standing acoustic wave through the SAW sensor device during propagation therethrough thereby signaling a presence of the at least one chemical analyte.

In another embodiment a SAW sensor device for detecting the presence of a chemical analyte in a gaseous carrier is disclosed. The SAW sensor device includes SAW device and a substantially continuous or substantially discontinuous absorbent layer bonded to at least one surface of the SAW device. The SAW device includes a substrate having one or more input interdigital transducers IDTs configured to convert an input electrical signal to a surface acoustic wave and one or more output IDTs configured to convert the surface acoustic wave to an output electrical signal. The adsorbent layer includes a MOF material having a porous structure. The MOF may be crystalline in nature with a substantially repeating lattice structure or the absorbent layer may be amorphous. Adsorption of at least one chemical analyte by the MOF material causes a mass change in the MOF material that alters propagation of a standing acoustic wave through the substrate layer during propagation therethrough thereby signaling an amount of the at least one chemical analyte absorbed by the MOF material.

In yet another embodiment a method for detecting a presence of a chemical analyte in a gaseous carrier is disclosed. The method includes 1 positioning a SAW device in contact with a gaseous carrier 2 adsorbing at least one chemical analyte present in the gaseous carrier into the PCP and 3 sensing adsorption of the at least one chemical analyte by the PCP wherein adsorption of the at least one chemical analyte by the PCP causes mass changes in the PCP that dampens propagation of a standing acoustic wave through the substrate layer thereby signaling the presence of the at least one chemical analyte.

The sensing devices and methods for their use may be configured for sensing chemical analytes selected from water vapor carbon dioxide methanol ethanol carbon monoxide nitric oxide nitrous oxide organic amines organic compounds containing NOgroups halogenated hydrocarbons e.g. trihalomethanes such as chloroform acetone hexane toluene isopropanol alcohols alkanes alkenes benzene functionalized aromatics e.g. compounds based on benzene but with one or more chemical groups added ammonia NH phosgene COCl sulfur mustard nerve agents e.g. Sarin and VX sulfur dioxide tetrahydrofuran THF and methyltertbutyl ether MTBE and combinations thereof.

Features from any of the disclosed embodiments may be used in combination with one another without limitation. In addition other features and advantages of the present disclosure will become apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art through consideration of the following detailed description and the accompanying drawings.

The need for real time compact and inexpensive chemical detectors is important for applications such as hazardous gas detection personal exposure monitors and humidity measurement. However these applications pose many technical challenges because they require high sensitivity and specificity in small economical packages with low power consumption. New sensing concepts based on MEMS offer a potential solution that can be mass produced at low cost. Embodiments of the invention disclosed herein are directed to sensing devices based on a SAW device coated with an absorbent layer for detecting at least one chemical analyte in a gaseous carrier. Embodiments of methods for detecting the presence of a chemical analyte in a gaseous carrier using such devices are also disclosed.

When an absorbent layer adsorbs an analyte it produces a mass change in the absorbent layer. This mass change can be used to determine the concentration of an analyte of interest e.g. water vapor or chloroform in a gaseous atmosphere. Various embodiments of the invention include a SAW device having an absorbent layer fixedly attached to one or more surfaces of the SAW device. A SAW device may include a substrate having at least two sets of IDTs formed thereon. An input IDT converts an electrical signal to a surface acoustic wave that propagates in the substrate and an output IDT converts the surface acoustic wave back into an electrical signal. The propagation of the surface acoustic wave and as a result the output electrical signal are sensitive to mass changes in and around the substrate. As such as the absorbent layer absorbs an analyte of interest it causes a change in the propagation of the surface acoustic wave. The magnitude of the change e.g. a phase shift in the surface acoustic wave can be correlated to the amount of the analyte of interest adsorbed by the absorbent layer.

Suitable examples of absorbent layers include so called PCP layers. MOF materials are a recently developed class of nanoporous supramolecular PCP materials with tunable properties that make them very attractive for chemical sensing. MOFs are typically crystalline but can sometimes be amorphous coordination polymers in which metal cations are connected by organic electrondonating linker groups. These serve as rigid struts allowing the material to maintain its porosity when guest solvent molecules are removed. Very high surface areas can be achieved Langmuir values as high as 6 000 10 000 m g have been reported. This is a value approximately six times greater than a zeolite. This makes these materials potentially highly effective sorbents that would increase sensitivity in sensors detecting either mass or stress changes.

Moreover the presence of an organic component within the structure creates many opportunities to synthetically modify the pore environment with respect to both size and chemical properties. Previous experiments and modeling demonstrate that selective gas uptake and separation are achievable although most of these results were obtained under high pressure conditions that bear little resemblance to the conditions typically encountered by chemical sensors. Recent atomistic modeling we performed suggests that selective detection of a wide range of molecular species should be feasible.

A number of MOFs exhibit the ability to adsorb various classes of molecules including volatile organic compounds polyaromatic hydrocarbons explosives nerve agents and methane. An additional advantage of MOFs for sensing purposes is that they are very stable thermally. Most MOFs display decomposition temperatures in the range of 350 400 C. with a few decomposing above 500 C. e.g. the UiO MOFs . These features combined with their highly uniform pore structure make them superior in many ways to other high surface area nanoporous materials such as anodized aluminum oxide AAO porous carbons and aerogels as well as organic polymers used to provide sensor selectivity. Proof of concept experiments demonstrate that chemical detection based on several MOF enabled transduction mechanisms is feasible. For example sensors based on impedance colorimetry interferometry plasmonics and luminescence have been described. In addition U.S. Pat. No. 8 065 904 the entirety of which is incorporated herein by reference describes sensing devices and methods based on PCP coated strain detectors i.e. microcantilevers . In most cases however the bench scale experiments performed on a specific material do not involve full integration of the MOF into a self contained sensing device. Responses to analytes are demonstrated but detection limits are left undetermined.

Depending upon the application PCP layers are chosen for their compatibility with their environment. For instance if a SAW sensor constructed with a shear horizontal mode was to be used to detect trace material in a liquid media the PCP layer is selected from materials which are stable in the media or if the sensor is deployed in a gaseous atmosphere the PCP layer is selected from materials that do not react irreversibly with the gas or gases of the target atmosphere. For example zinc carboxylate metal organic frameworks MOFs such as IRMOF 1 may be appropriate for detection of gases in dry atmospheres while the nickel MOF Ni 4 4 bipyridine NO could be used for detecting analytes in organic solvents. Alternatively a humidity stable MOF such as CuBTC also known as HKUST 1 which is short hand nomenclature for copper II benzene 1 3 5 tricarboxylate chemical formula Cu BTC HO where BTC is benzene 1 3 5 tricarboxylate could be employed for detection in humid media. MOFs such as various ZIF compounds e.g. ZIF 8 or zirconium based UiO MOFs e.g. UiO 66 which are stable in liquid water could be used to detect species in aqueous solution. ZIFs are also highly useful for size selective detection due to their rather small pore openings typically 2 5 . MOFs with open coordination sites such as CuBTC and MOF 74 and its extended versions are attractive for detecting weakly interacting gases such as COand CH and molecules such as Oand NO.

Embodiments of the invention described herein are directed to SAW based sensors that may be used to detect and quantify a variety of analytes such as but not limited to water vapor carbon dioxide methanol ethanol carbon monoxide nitric oxide nitrous oxide organic amines organic compounds containing NOgroups halogenated hydrocarbons e.g. trihalomethanes such as chloroform acetone hexane toluene isopropanol alcohols alkanes alkenes benzene functionalized aromatics e.g. compounds based on benzene but with one or more chemical groups added ammonia NH phosgene COCl sulfur mustard nerve agents e.g. Sarin and VX sulfur dioxide tetrahydrofuran THF and methyltertbutyl ether MTBE and combinations thereof. For example herein it is shown that a thin film of Cu BTC grown on a SAW sensor may be used to detect water vapor at sub parts per million by volume ppmv concentrations demonstrating that functionalizing devices with MOF materials may enable highly sensitive gas detection. The MOF coated SAWs sensors described herein exhibit a rapid and reversible response to water vapor concentrations spanning 4 orders of magnitude from 85 C. to 10 C. frost point 0.28 14 800 ppm at 632 mmHg atmosphere pressure. The response time is comparable to precision sensors. Though precision and accuracy are reduced compared to these methods the devices described herein are quite simple and robust. No cross sensitivity to N O CO Ar or methane was observed.

The MOF layer in the SAW based sensors described herein may be covalently bound to surface hydroxyl groups of the SAW substrate e.g. a quartz surface . This provides a much stronger mechanical coupling than is possible with the self assembled monolayers SAM of typical devices. In addition to describing the sensor performance the relationship between film thickness and device response is demonstrated. Because of their low cost robustness and the relative ease of coating compared with MEMS devices such as microcantilevers SAWs are a convenient platform for evaluating MOF coatings for gas sensing and are suited for practical use as well. These qualities result in robust stable sensors capable of generating large signals from small quantities of targeted analytes.

Referring now to a typical SAW based sensor is schematically illustrated. The SAW based sensor is based on a SAW device that includes a piezoelectric substrate layer an input interdigitated transducer an input electrical circuit an output interdigitated transducer and an output electrical circuit . The SAW device illustrated in is a relatively simple SAW device. Other SAW devices may include additional transducers and or additional circuits.

When the input interdigitated transducer is stimulated by the input electrical circuit the input interdigitated transducer converts electrical charge to mechanical deformation of the substrate surface at an oscillating frequency related to the alternating frequency of an input electrical signal. The input electrical signal generates a surface acoustic wave through the inverse piezoelectric effect that propagates through the substrate which is illustrated schematically by arrow . When the surface acoustic wave impacts the output interdigitated transducer the surface acoustic wave is converted back into an electrical signal by the direct piezoelectric effect which generates an output electrical signal at the interdigitated transducer . The magnitude of the output electrical signal is directly related to the magnitude of the surface acoustic wave .

The device illustrated in further includes a PCP layer that is attached to the substrate layer . The PCP layer may for example be directly attached e.g. covalently attached to the substrate layer or it may be attached to the substrate layer though an intermediate layer such as a self assembled monolayer SAM .

As discussed above the PCP layer has a porous structure and is capable of selectively interacting with a wide variety of chemical entities. When molecules are adsorbed or absorbed by the PCP layer the mass density of the PCP layer increases. This increase in mass density alters or retards propagation of the surface acoustic wave through the device which may be registered for example as a phase shift in the surface acoustic wave that is directly proportional to the amount of material adsorbed by the PCP layer.

Referring now to a side elevation view of the sensor device of is illustrated. As discussed above the device includes the substrate and the PCP layer . Suitable examples of materials that may be used for SAW substrates include but are not limited to piezoelectric materials such as single crystal quartz lithium niobate aluminum nitride and zinc oxide. The PCP layer may be fabricated from any one of the materials discussed herein or from any suitable PCP material known in the art.

The PCP layer has a thickness t. Generally the thickness t will exist in a range depending on the sensing application and the type of PCP used. For example some PCPs and some analytes respond better to thicker coatings. How thick is useful depends on the properties of a particular PCP and how it interacts with its analyte. For instance rapid response time may not be important in some applications where long slow changes may take place. In such a case a thicker coating may be appropriate. In cases where the sensor device needs to respond to rapid changes in the PCP a thinner coating may be appropriate.

In one embodiment the PCP layer may have a thickness in a lower range from about 30 nm 50 nm 100 nm 125 nm 150 nm 175 nm 200 nm 250 nm or 300 nm a thickness in an upper range from about 300 nm 350 nm 400 nm 450 nm 500 nm 600 nm 700 nm 800 nm 900 nm 1000 nm 1250 nm 1500 nm 1750 nm 2000 nm or any combination of the above recited lower and upper ranges.

For humidity sensing with a Cu BTC based SAW sensor for example it was found that thinner coatings e.g. about 30 nm have low sensitivity and poor response. However coating thickness cannot be increased to an arbitrarily large value without impacting performance. The response to water vapor reaches a maximum value at a thickness of about 200 nm. Thicker coatings add mass at a distance from the surface that does not couple well with the surface acoustic waves but continues to dampen the energy nonetheless. In addition coatings of about 200 nm and thicker showed progressively longer equilibration times with a 350 nm coated SAW failing to level off after 4 6 h of constant exposure. In contrast the experimentally determined preferred thickness for a ZIF 8 based SAW sensor for sensing acetone is about 500 nm.

The PCP layer may be deposited by a number of methods known in the art. For example Cu BTC layers may be deposited on SAW substrate layers by a layer by layer LBL growth method. In a typical procedure SAW bearing substrates were sequentially dipped in alternating ethanolic solutions of 1.0 mM copper acetate Cu OAc 2 and 0.1 mM trimesic acid 1 3 5 benzenetricarboxylic acid H3BTC for 5 20 min each e.g. 5 min in the copper acetate solution and 10 min in the trimesic acid solution at 50 C. in a static reaction vessel. Two 10 min ethanol rinses followed each growth step to remove excess reagent from the surface. In the process the initial layer covalently attaches to the substrate e.g. a quartz substrate and each subsequent cycle grows the Cu BTC thickness by a controlled increment. In order to increase the number of covalent interactions between the substrate and the Cu BTC the substrate may be treated with oxygen plasma to increase the density of hydroxyl groups on the surface of the substrate prior to coating with Cu BTC. A ligand exchange reaction takes place whereby newly introduced solvated metal ions coordinate to ligands already bound to the previous MOF layer. Exposure time temperature and solution concentration may be controlled to establish a constant growth rate. SAW devices may be coated by manually dipping the substrate in the alternating solution or automated procedures may be employed.

Referring now to a sensor device that includes a sensor SAW device and a reference SAW device is illustrated. The sensor SAW device is essentially the same or similar to the device illustrated in . The sensor SAW device includes a substrate layer an input interdigitated transducer an input electrical circuit an output interdigitated transducer and an output electrical circuit . The sensor SAW device further includes a PCP layer fabricated from a microporous material e.g. Cu BTC that is selected for interacting with an analyte of interest. The reference SAW device includes a substrate layer an input interdigitated transducer an input electrical circuit an output interdigitated transducer and an output electrical circuit . The reference SAW device either does not include a PCP layer or the reference SAW device may have a PCP layer if the reference SAW remains isolated from the chemicals to be sensed.

The sensor device may further include components such as a sealed chemically inert housing one or more heaters for baking out the SAW sensors and and one or more fittings for delivering a gas stream to the sensor . In an embodiment the sensor device may be configured as a flow cell. In sensing applications a gas stream with vapors may be passed over both SAW sensors and . The reference SAW device provides a constant reference for baselining the response of the sensor SAW device to adsorption of a chemical analyte.

In an embodiment a method for detecting the presence of a chemical analyte in a gaseous carrier is disclosed. The method includes 1 positioning a SAW sensor device in contact with a gaseous carrier 2 adsorbing at least one chemical analyte present in the gaseous carrier into the PCP and 3 sensing adsorption of the at least one chemical analyte by the PCP wherein adsorption of the at least one chemical analyte by the PCP causes mass changes in the PCP that dampens propagation of a standing acoustic wave through the substrate layer thereby signaling the presence of the at least one chemical analyte. The SAW sensor device and methods for its fabrication are described in greater detail elsewhere herein.

In an embodiment the sensing includes quantifying the amount of the at least one chemical analyte adsorbed by the PCP. The amount of the at least one chemical analyte adsorbed by the PCP may be quantified in terms of a phase shift in the surface acoustic wave as the PCP interacts with the analyte. In an embodiment the sensing includes sensing molecular species selected from the group consisting of water vapor carbon dioxide methanol ethanol carbon monoxide nitric oxide nitrous oxide organic amines organic compounds containing NO2 groups halogenated hydrocarbons e.g. trihalomethanes such as chloroform acetone hexane toluene isopropanol alcohols alkanes alkenes benzene functionalized aromatics e.g. compounds based on benzene but with one or more chemical groups added ammonia NH3 phosgene COCl2 sulfur mustard nerve agents e.g. Sarin and VX sulfur dioxide tetrahydrofuran THF and methyltertbutyl ether MTBE and combinations thereof in the gaseous carrier. In an embodiment the method further comprises positioning a reference SAW device in contact with the gaseous carrier wherein the reference SAW device provides a baseline reference and wherein the reference SAW device includes a SAW structure without an absorbent layer bonded thereto.

Referring now to the use of a SAW device coated with a MOF thin film to detect water vapor across a wide concentration range is demonstrated. A range of about 3 14 800 ppmv reference atmospheric pressure of 632 mmHg was delivered to sensor SAWs coated with thin films of Cu BTC deposited by an automated layer by layer method. Devices coated by a manual technique demonstrated sensitivity from about 0.28 14 800 ppmv. This exceeds the sensitivity and range of many commercially available sensors. Cu BTC layers were covalently bonded directly to the silicon oxide surface of a quartz SAW allowing devices to be heated beyond 100 C. to desorb water adsorbed in the pores without decomposition thereby regenerating the sensors. Additional data illustrate that these sensors are capable of a rapid and reproducible response to water vapor concentration. These results provide convincing evidence that MOF functionalization of compact sensing technologies such as SAW devices can compete with state of the art devices.

Referring now to the response to humidity of SAWs with different coating thicknesses i.e. different numbers of layer by layer LBL coating cycles is shown. FIG. shows testing for coatings of 20 100 cycles from 70 to 350 nm thick . As can be seen in the response to humidity appears linear at low concentrations on this log linear plot as the MOF layer accumulates water. Subsequently higher accumulation levels of water produce a steeper slope. Other experimental and modeling data suggest that the response will have another inflection above 50 relative humidity 12 C. frost point and asymptotically approach a final value as water saturates the pores of the MOF layer.

The automated LBL process produces uniform and reproducible Cu BTC coatings but is relatively slow. This process requires approximately 20 h to deposit a 100 nm film at room temperature although it was recently determined that film growth at 62 C. can reduce this by a factor of about 2.60. A manual procedure can also be used in which devices are alternately submerged in solutions of copper acetate and trimesic acid. Growth by this method is faster yielding 150 nm thick coatings in only 6 h. Aside from the tedious nature of the process it was found that coating uniformity with this method is more difficult to control than with the automated LBL process. However the sensitivity of these devices is higher than devices coated by the automated method. Sensors coated with the automated method have a demonstrated range of about 3 14 800 ppmv and sensors coated with the manual method demonstrated sensitivity from about 0.28 14 800 ppmv. It is currently believed by the inventors that the greater sensitivity range of the manually coated sensors results from greater non uniformity in the surface coating as compared to sensors prepared via the automated method.

Referring now to detection of hexane and acetone with SAW devices coated with NOTT 100 and ZIF8 is illustrated. illustrated that a NOTT 100 coated SAW device detected a broad range of hexane concentrations e.g. about 400 ppm to about 6070 ppm . Adsorption of hexane by NOTT 100 was reversible and the detection effect was reproducible. Similarly illustrated that a SAW device coated with ZIF8 detected a broad range of acetone concentrations e.g. about 495 ppm to about 9910 ppm . Response was reversible with the response returning to baseline after the removal of acetone.

In addition to the foregoing data presented in U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 544 078 the entirety of which is incorporated herein by reference illustrates that a practical Cu BTC based sensor capable of detecting chloroform vapor is feasible. And while the specific sensor discussed in U.S. Prov. App. Ser. No. 61 544 078 is based on microcantilever detection the inventors currently believe that such a sensor may also be based on a SAW device. In addition the results presented herein and in U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 544 078 illustrate that PCP materials e.g. MOFs may interact selectively with wide ranging chemical species and that as a result SAW based sensors using such PCP materials may be fabricated and used for sensing and quantifying wide ranging chemical species.

The invention may be embodied in other specific forms without departing from its spirit or essential characteristics. The described embodiments are to be considered in all respects only as illustrative and not restrictive. The scope of the invention is therefore indicated by the appended claims rather than by the foregoing description. All changes which come within the meaning and range of equivalency of the claims are to be embraced within their scope.

