---

title: Method and system for pooling, securitizing, and trading global dividend and interest tax reclaim assets
abstract: Method and system for administering the pooling, securitizing, and trading of global dividend and interest tax reclaim assets during the reclamation process from concerned foreign government tax authorities, who are parties to a double taxation treaty.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08762253&OS=08762253&RS=08762253
owner: 
number: 08762253
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20120710
---
This application is a continuation in part and claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 120 of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 538 089 entitled METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR POOLING SECURITIZING AND TRADING GLOBAL DIVIDEND AND INTEREST TAX RECLAIM ASSETS filed on Aug. 7 2009 which is herein incorporated by reference in part.

The present invention relates generally to asset of securitization and more specifically to a platform i.e. system and method for administering the pooling securitizing and trading of global dividend and interest tax reclaim assets.

For the purpose of the embodiments of the present invention a general term beneficial person may be defined as an individual company or any other body of persons. A company may be defined as any corporate body or entity which is treated as a corporate body for tax purposes. Furthermore for the purpose of the embodiments of the present invention a general beneficial person may be categorized into two groups an initial beneficial person and a current beneficial person 

Cross border investments are commonplace in the business world. For example a U.S. based company may have equity interests in suppliers distributors and partially owned subsidiaries in several other countries. The same is true for companies based outside the U.S.A. Further mutual funds and institutional investors frequently invest in entities in other countries. Frequently such a company or more generically an initial beneficial person who receives dividend and interest income paid on cross border investments is subject to a non resident withholding tax which may be as high as 25 35 for example. A paying agent withholds the non resident tax amount and pays it to the tax authority. However an initial beneficial person may qualify for a tax treaty benefit under the provisions of a double taxation treaty between the government where the income arises i.e. the must cope with source income government and the initial beneficial person s country of residence.

There are two methods for obtaining the tax treaty benefit relief at source which provides tax relief at the time of the dividend and interest payment or tax reclamation which requires a documented filing for a refund of the over withheld taxes.

With increasing cross border share ownership an initial beneficial person knows the impact of taxation by foreign tax authorities. Relief at the source is the preferred tax reduction method for many initial beneficial persons because it occurs at the point of dividend and interest payment. On the other hand in practice not all countries have relief at source tax provisions and for these countries the current tax relief infrastructure supports tax reclamation only.

Global custodian banks typically act as agents to file the required legal documents on behalf of their clients as initial beneficial persons in order to reclaim the over withheld taxes from the foreign government tax authorities. The reclamation process is complex and presents market challenges which stem from legal and administrative issues.

The legal issues primarily relate to the assembling of evidence to prove an initial beneficial person s entitlement to the tax reclamation assets as defined by the double taxation treaty among the involved governments. As such if the treaty s requirements are not fully met the treaty benefit may be denied to an initial beneficial person. Subsequently this may lead to the double taxation of global income. This is of concern for the country of the source income and for an initial beneficial person s country of residence or domicile.

The administrative issues relate to compliance difficulties involved in ensuring that the tax treaty benefit is granted effectively to an initial beneficial person with respect to the country of residence. A source income government s jurisdictional tax law and applicable double taxation treaty dictate the method for the treaty benefit payment relief at source or tax reclamation. In the absence of relief at source payment an initial beneficial person obtains the treaty benefit through tax reclamation. One of the compliance and administrative difficulties surrounding tax reclamation is the statute of limitations which limits the allowable time to file for the treaty benefit. Most typically the statute of limitations is three years from the dividend and interest pay date. On the other hand however double taxation treaty law often does not delineate the time allowed for the foreign government tax authority to pay the treaty benefit to the claimant. As a result it may take from 6 months to 7 years or more in some jurisdictional markets for an initial beneficial person to receive the treaty benefit from the respective foreign government tax authority.

The tax reclamation process has created several pain points for claimants including but not limited to 

The time between the filing of a tax reclamation claim and the eventual payment is extremely important from a claimant s perspective. During this time the dividend and interest tax reclaim asset has zero utility because it is not generating additional income. As recently as February 2006 the Centre for Tax Policy and Administration within the Organisation for Economic Co Operation and Development OECD estimated the value of assets currently managed by investment funds is in excess of US 16 trillion of which a substantial part of those assets represents cross border investments. According to the Centre for Tax Policy and Administration 

It is estimated that there are over US 161 billion in global dividend and interest tax reclaim assets outstanding each year. Currently there are no financial institutions or marketplaces providing liquidity for tax reclaim assets.

A need thus exists for systems and methods serving to reduce or eliminate the market challenges of an initial beneficial person s need to collect global dividend and interest tax reclaim assets.

Some embodiments of the present invention allow countries to retain their current tax relief infrastructure and do not require legislative or administrative changes in order to reform current tax reclamation procedures. ROSESeries ABS may be created through the private purchase and sale of global dividend and interest tax reclaim assets between an SPV and an initial beneficial person for further sale to an SPV trust in order to constitute a true sale of assets. This affords the assets bankruptcy remote protection from an initial beneficial person s risk. The private purchase and sale of the tax reclaim assets to an SPV may be by assignment in the source income country which is in accordance with the foreign government tax authority s procedures and market practices. Furthermore the legal assignment of tax reclaim assets between an initial beneficial person and an SPV for the private purchase and sale true sale methodology does not infringe on the double taxation treaties among foreign governments.

The creation of ROSESeries ABS through the global pooling of dividend and interest tax reclaim assets may provide much needed financial liquidity to an initial beneficial person for reinvestment opportunities and cash utilization thereby increasing an initial beneficial person s return on investments. The creation of ROSESeries ABS may also contribute to global financial market efficiency and global capital market deepening through ROSESeries ABS liquidity provisions.

Therefore ROSESeries ABS may provide much needed market liquidity and efficiency thereby enhancing global capital market deepening. For example if the expansion of money theory is employed and the Federal Reserve Bank s reserve requirement is set at 10 the expansion of money multiplier will be 1 10 10. Using the expansion of money multiplier a US 161 billion in outstanding global dividend and interest tax reclaim assets could theoretically expand to US 1.61 trillion within a very short period in the absence of leakage. It is very easy to see the liquidity value of ROSESeries ABS to an initial beneficial person and to the global capital market at large.

Asset securitization has produced tremendous financial liquidity for the global market since its inception in the US capital market in 1970. By mid 2004 it was estimated that the total rated global securitization market stood at US 1 240 billion. The first ABS were issued in 1985 and in that year the market for publicly offered ABS issues was US 1.2 billion. The Bond Market Association. Types of Bonds Asset Backed Securities Contents. The Bond Market Association. 5 Jan. 2007. http www.investinginbonds.com learnmore.asp catid 5 subcatid 16 id 10. The Bond Market Association estimates put the 2003 issuance of publicly traded ABS at US 479.4 billion. The Bond Market Association. Types of Bonds Asset Backed Securities Contents. The Bond Market Association. 5 Jan. 2007.

http www.investinginbonds.com learnmore.asp catid 5 subcatid 16 id 10. Primarily ABS have been credit card receivables auto loans manufactured housing contracts and home equity loans. As the ABS market continues to grow and mature new ABS asset classes are being introduced to the market e.g. Royalty ABS . ROSESeries ABS represent a new ABS asset class. With the current global market estimate of US 161 billion in outstanding dividend and interest tax reclaim assets annually ROSESeries ABS may inject much needed liquidity into the global capital market.

In some embodiments discussed below securities are created and issued sold to finance purchase of a claim for tax reclaim assets the purchase price after deduction for expenses providing liquidity through the capital market for an initial beneficial person on global dividend and interest tax reclaim assets. In some embodiments a global custodian e.g. bank may send two types of payments to an initial beneficial person 

The buyer of the claim may for example be a special purpose vehicle SPV formed for effecting the transactions.

It is estimated that over US 161 billion in global dividend and interest tax reclaim assets are currently outstanding with foreign government tax authorities annually. In some embodiments securitization of the claim for tax reclamation assets can provide immediate cash liquidity through the capital markets in order to improve an initial beneficial person s return on investments and cash flow. For example if the expansion of money theory is employed and the Federal Reserve Bank s reserve requirement is set at 10 of assets US 161 billion in outstanding global dividend and interest tax reclaim assets could theoretically expand to US 1.61 trillion within a very short period in the absence of leakage. ROSESeries ABS may provide real economic value to an initial beneficial person and contribute to capital market efficiency as a whole. Therefore securitization of global dividend and interest tax reclaim assets into ROSESeries ABS may provide but is not limited to the below economic benefits 

For the Initial Beneficial Person benefits include 1 obtaining freedom from the market challenges of the global dividend and interest tax reclamation process 2 providing immediate cash liquidity for an initial beneficial person s reinvestment opportunities and other cash needs 3 providing a higher rate of return on investments due to an immediate utilization of dividend and interest tax reclaim assets and 4 providing immediate cash to fund current actuarial pension benefits or other needs.

For the Capital Market Investor benefits include 1 providing access to a new source of investment grade securities 2 providing access to rated diversified risk 3 providing access to a diversified investment time horizon Economic Benefit Capital Market 4 providing an increase in global capital market efficiency and liquidity 5 providing an increase in cross border investments and 6 providing an increase in capital markets.

The one benefit for foreign governments also 1 providing an increase in cross border investments through an initial beneficial person s reinvestment in the local markets 2 providing an increase in local capital market liquidity and 3 providing an increase in foreign government tax revenue through capital market reinvestments.

In addition to the economic benefits outlined above some of the approaches discussed herein may provide innovative and operational benefits to the tax reclamation market as noted below 

Applying some embodiments to non performing global dividend and interest tax reclamation assets presents a tremendous business opportunity with no immediate competition in the asset securitization market. With some embodiments an initial beneficial person may receive a tax relief benefit upon the dividend and interest payment date. An initial beneficial person may not have to wait for countries to make dramatic legislative and administrative changes in order to reform current tax reclamation procedures. Implementation of some embodiments may be immediate with cost effective benefits for all participants.

It will be evident to those of ordinary skill in the art that the above assertions and benefits of the present invention are not exhaustive.

Model is an exemplary database model that may be used to store the parameters for input and output data processes according to some embodiments of the present invention.

Model illustrates an exemplary interface definition database model which identifies data files associated with a particular input or output data process according to some aspects of the present invention.

Model illustrates an exemplary transform handler database model which is used for inbound data to transform disparate file formats from various third party organizations into standard file formats and for outbound data to transform standard file formats into the required unique file formats for the applicable third party organizations according to some embodiments of the present invention.

Model illustrates an exemplary database model which is used to store processing rules for technology solutions associated with embodiments of the present invention.

Model illustrates an exemplary database model that stores key information regarding initial beneficial persons according to some aspects of the present invention.

Model serves as an illustrative example of an initial beneficial person type database model which may be used to categorize different types of initial beneficial person entities.

Model is an illustrative example of a third party organization initial beneficial person type database model. This database model may be used to store a data source provider s distinct categorizations for initial beneficial person entities according to some aspects of the present invention.

Model illustrates an exemplary contact information database model which may store the contact details of organizations including but not limited to initial beneficial persons global custodian banks and SPV originators according to some embodiments of the present invention.

Model is an illustrative example of a database model used to store information about various third party organizations according to embodiments of the present invention.

Model is an illustrative example of a third party organization type database model which identifies a type of organization such as but not limited to global custodian bank legal counsel and capital market investor according to some aspects of the present invention.

Model is an illustrative example of a contractual definition database model used to store various negotiated contracts according to some embodiments of the present invention.

Model is an illustrative example of a contractual term database model used to store detailed terms and conditions of contractual definitions according to some embodiments of the present invention.

Model is an illustrative example of a database model used to store an initial beneficial person s historical tax reclaim assets according to some embodiments of the present invention.

Model is an illustrative example of a tax reclaim active database model that is used to store an initial beneficial person s tax reclaim assets that are candidates for securitization into ROSESeries ABS according to some aspects of the present invention.

Model illustrates an exemplary database model that is used to store portfolio names according to embodiments of the present invention.

Model is an exemplary database model that serves as a master repository of security identifiers according to some embodiments of the present invention.

Model illustrates an exemplary database model which is used to store security identifier codes according to embodiments of the present invention.

Model is an exemplary database model that is used to store a third party organization s unique security identifiers according to some embodiments of the present invention.

Model is an exemplary database model that is used to store a third party organization s security type codes according to some embodiments of the present invention.

Model illustrates an exemplary database model which stores the investment ratings of tax reclaim assets in accordance with embodiments of the present invention.

Model illustrates an exemplary country database model which stores country codes currency codes and country names according to embodiments of the present invention.

Model illustrates an exemplary language database model which is used to identify languages for multilingual processing in accordance with some aspects of the present invention.

Model illustrates an exemplary type code database model which is used to store type code information in accordance with some aspects of the present invention.

Model is an illustrative example of a reclaim filing status master database model which is used to store reclaim filing statuses according to some embodiments of the present invention.

Model is an illustrative example of third party organization reclaim filing status model which stores the reclaim filing statuses of third party organizations according to some embodiments of the present invention.

Model illustrates an exemplary reclaim securitization status database model used to store the statuses of tax reclaim assets through various pooling and securitization phases according to some embodiments of the present invention.

Model illustrative an exemplary market rate database model which is used to store market rate data such as but not limited to libor rates foreign exchange rates and US Treasury rates according to some aspects of the present invention.

Model is an illustrative example of a database model that indicates which tax reclaim markets of operation are eligible for securitization according to some aspects of the present invention.

Model is an illustrative example of a database model that indicates which tax reclaim markets of operation each initial beneficial person may sell to an SPV according to some aspects of the present invention.

Model is an illustrative example of a database model that is used to identify which countries have double taxation treaties and what are the corresponding statute of limitations between according to some embodiments of the present invention.

Model illustrates an exemplary tax reclaim treaty security rate database model which stores tax treaty rates between foreign governments that are applied on the security identifier level according to some embodiments of the present invention.

Model illustrates an exemplary tax reclaim treaty fund number rate database model which stores tax treaty rates between foreign governments that are applied on the fund number level according to some embodiments of the present invention.

Model illustrates an exemplary tax reclaim treaty country rate database model which stores tax treaty rates between foreign governments that are applied on the country level according to some embodiments of the present invention.

Model is an illustrative example of a database model which is used to store details about tentative portfolios according to some embodiments of the present invention.

Model illustrates an exemplary tranche definition database model which is used to store the parameters of stamp and secure tranche definitions according to some aspects of the present invention.

Model illustrates an exemplary tranche database model which is used to store the details of created stamp and secure tranches according to some aspects of the present invention.

Model is an illustrative example of an ABS definition database model which is used to store key attributes of ROSESeries ABS according to some aspects of the present invention.

Model is an illustrative example of an ABS issuance database model used to store information related to issued ROSESeries ABS according to embodiments of the present invention.

Model illustrates an exemplary ABS receipt payment database model which is used to track cash receipts and payments between an SPV trust and capital market investors for maturing ROSESeries ABS according to embodiments of the present invention.

Model illustrates an exemplary database model which is used to store the definition for reconciling accounting and custody transactions according to some embodiments of the present invention.

Model is an illustrative example of a reconciliation database model which is used to track reconciliation events according to some aspects of the present invention.

Model is an illustrative example of a reconciliation transaction database model that is used to store the accounting and custody transactions for reconciliations according to embodiments of the present inventions.

Model illustrates an exemplary reconciliation exception database model according to embodiments of the present invention.

Model is an illustrative example of a report definition database model according to some aspects of the present invention.

Model is an illustrative example of a database model which is used to store reporting information according to some embodiments of the present invention.

Model is an illustrative example of a swap deal definition database model which is used to store the terms and conditions of interest rate swap deals according to some embodiments of the present invention.

Model is an illustrative example of a swap deal database model according to some aspects of the present invention.

Model illustrates an exemplary swap deal receipt payment database model which is used to store the net payment decisions for various swap deals according to some embodiments of the present invention.

Model is an illustrative example of a VaR definition database model according to some aspects of the present invention.

Model is an illustrative example of a VaR database model which is used to store attributes of VaR instances according to embodiments of the present invention.

Model is an exemplary database model that is used to store VaR calculations according to some embodiments of the present invention.

Model is an illustrative example of a VaRbitrage definition database model according to some aspects of the present invention.

Model is an illustrative example of a VaRbitrage database model which is used to store details about VaRbitrage opportunities according to embodiments of the present invention.

Model is an exemplary database model that is used to store VaRbitrage calculations according to embodiments of the present invention.

Model is an illustrative example of a trade execution definition database model which is used to identify the parameters for booking a trade according to some embodiments of the present invention.

Model is an illustrative example of a trade execution database model which is used to store the attributes of executed trades according to some aspects of the present invention.

Model is an illustrative example of a pricing spread database model which is used to store a pricing spread calculation on a purchase and sale agreement according to some embodiments of the present invention.

Model illustrates an exemplary interest liability database model which is used to store the details of interest liability calculation events according to some aspects of the present invention.

Model is an illustrative example of an interest calculation database model which is used to store various interest calculations in accordance with some embodiments of the present invention.

Model illustrates an exemplary global security holdings database model which is used to store the details of selected securities according to some aspects of the present invention.

Model illustrates an exemplary investment income calculation database model which is used to store the investment income calculations of global security holdings according to some aspects of the present invention.

Steps represent how the gross and net dividend and interest payment is produced during the tax withholding process. In step a global custodian bank files a claim for tax reclamation with a foreign tax authority on behalf of an initial beneficial person. The tax reclaim filing is in reference to a double taxation treaty between the source income i.e. foreign government and the government of an initial beneficial person s country of residence.

Step illustrates from a high level the current market challenges involved with tax reclamation. These market challenges which stem from legal and administrative issues as described earlier lengthen the time it takes an initial beneficial person to receive the tax reclaim payment. Depending on the jurisdiction on average it may take 6 months to 7 or more years for a foreign tax authority to pay the claim for tax reclamation.

Step represents the 6 month to 7 year potential waiting period for the tax reclaim payment to be sent to a global custodian bank by a foreign tax authority. This period has a significant impact to an initial beneficial person because the tax reclaim assets do not earn interest while remaining in the coffers of a foreign tax authority. Two major influences on the length of time it takes to collect the tax reclaim assets are legal step and administrative step issues.

At the conclusion of the year waiting period typically a foreign tax authority sends the tax reclaim payment to a global custodian bank on behalf of an initial beneficial person step . In step a global custodian bank sends the tax reclaim payment to the initial beneficial person.

Some embodiments of the system taught here reduce and or eliminate the lengthy waiting period for the collection of the tax reclaim payment experienced by an initial beneficial person. illustrates how some embodiments eliminate this lengthy waiting period for an initial beneficial person by pooling securitizing and trading global dividend and interest tax reclaim assets. Steps represent the dividend and interest payment process which was discussed previously in steps . In accordance with some embodiments steps and occur concurrently in order to provide the tax reclaim payment to an initial beneficial person at the same time the net dividend and interest payment is paid to an initial beneficial person by a global custodian bank. This concurrent payment represents an advantage to an initial beneficial person by eliminating an initial beneficial person s long waiting period to collect the tax reclaim asset.

In step an entity formed for this purpose typically called a special purpose vehicle or SPV and an initial beneficial person enter into a private purchase and sale of the tax reclaim assets. Such a purchase and sale agreement may be a revolving agreement and may be renegotiated from time to time e.g. with a rate trigger i.e. a rate floor and rate cap . A pricing spread associated with a private purchase and sale agreement may be based on a Pricing Model as detailed in subsequent illustrations. With a purchase of the tax reclaim assets by an SPV the tax reclaim assets are securitized in step in accordance with some embodiments. Subsequent illustrations cover example intricacies of a Securitization Model s SPV and an SPV trust in more detail. In step an initial beneficial person receives the proceeds of the tax reclaim amount as a result of such a private purchase and sale. This payment to an initial beneficial person may occur as early as upon the dividend and interest payment date representing minimal even zero lag time for an initial beneficial person and a striking contrast to the 6 month to 7 year waiting period previously discussed with respect to the prior art tax reclamation process in . In step per a purchase and sale agreement with an initial beneficial person the tax reclaim assets are assigned to an SPV SPV trust in a local jurisdictional market. In step a global custodian bank files a claim for the tax reclaim asset with a foreign tax authority on behalf of an SPV trust.

As mentioned earlier the details of one example Securitization Model s SPV and SPV trust are illustrated in additional figures. In particular illustrates what occurs once securities are structured and ready for sale in the capital markets step according to some aspects and embodiments. We refer to these securities by the name ROSESeries ABS asset backed sercurites .

With step legal step and administrative step issues for the jurisdictional tax market determine the length of time it takes for a foreign tax authority to make the tax reclaim payment. However these legal and administrative issues are of no immediate concern to an initial beneficial person that employs the herein described tax reclamation process due to the assignment of tax reclaim ownership to an SPV trust in all jurisdictional tax markets. In step a foreign tax authority sends the tax reclaim payment to a global custodian bank on behalf of an SPV trust. For step the SPV trust receives the tax reclaim payment.

As illustrated in step technology solutions preferably are employed to support the methods. These computer technology solutions are required to handle the unique complexities of pooling securitizing and trading global dividend and interest tax reclaim assets in local markets and in the base market especially for any entity that would provide them services as a business conducting numerous tax reclaim projects for multiple clients with multiple assets in multiple jurisdictions etc. Consequently this document contains several illustrations and detailed descriptions of exemplary technology solutions.

A relational database management system may be used to facilitate the collection and storage of data records. The exemplary technology solutions and their supporting database models with respect to the method and system of pooling securitizing and trading tax reclaim assets are discussed in greater detail below.

There are a number of exemplary technology solutions that may be used for pooling securitizing and trading tax reclaim assets in accordance with some embodiments. The interplay of these exemplary technology solutions not only is efficient but also reduces redundancy and manages the distinct and complex pooling securitizing and trading requirements for global dividend and interest tax reclaim assets. . are illustrative examples of these technology solutions and how they may work as a unit in accordance with some embodiments.

In step data source providers send data in support of a claim for tax reclamation. Data source providers may include initial beneficial persons and third party organizations such as but not limited to global custodian banks capital market investors and underwriters. Data from data source providers may include but is not limited to tax reclaim asset details market rates e.g. LIBOR rates US Treasury rates etc. and custody data for cash and position reconciliations. By way of example and not limitation data from these organizations may be in any data format s such as comma separated value CSV file text TXT file Extensible Markup Language XML file and SWIFT MT message. The data may also be sent across any transport method including but not limited to IBM WebSphere MQ Connect Direct Transfer Protocol over Secure Socket Layer FTP SSL and the SWIFT Network. Steps are illustrative examples of the types of data source providers that may send data in support of embodiments. These data source providers may include but are not limited to an initial beneficial person step global custodian bank step credit rating agency step and capital market investor step . Step represents additional data source providers that may send data in support of some embodiments.

Once the input data is received from a data source provider as illustrated in step the data may be loaded into appropriate database models. Step illustrates how exemplary database models may be populated. One such method is an input data process as noted in step . For this step some embodiments of the input data process technology solution may be used to load data into database models automatically. and illustrate an input data process in more detail. Another method for populating database models is manual input as noted in step . Step represents additional input data methods that may be used in conjunction with some embodiments.

Once the input data is loaded into the respective database models an ACK NAK i.e. acknowledgement of success non acknowledgement of success or notice of failure technology solution in step may send a processing status of the input data to the required data source providers. By way of example and not limitation a technical ACK NAK message may be sent to let the required data source providers know if the input data was received successfully or not. A functional ACK NAK message may also be sent to let the required data source providers know the processing status of the input data.

Numerous database models may be associated with some embodiments. Such database models are designed to store specific sets of data in order to facilitate the system and method of pooling securitizing and trading tax reclaim assets. Step is an illustrative example of some of the database models which may be used to store data. The database models may include but are not limited to contractual definition step markets of operation master step ABS receipt payment step and swap deal definition step . Additional database models may be included as noted in step .

Step a continuation of step showcases more database models which may be used to store data in support of some embodiments such as but not limited to a tax reclaim active model security master identifier model market rate data model and fund number model . Additional database models also may be utilized. In step pertinent information from database models may be retrieved for but not limited to a pricing spread component of a Pricing Model . As noted a pricing spread model may be based on a private purchase and sale agreement of tax reclaim assets between an SPV and an initial beneficial person. Subsequent illustrations detail components of a Pricing Model.

Data retrieval from various database models may also be used for ROSESeries ABS structuring by an SPV step . At a high level a structuring process may pool an initial beneficial person s aggregate portfolio of tax reclaim assets step into a tentative portfolio of tax reclaim assets step . A second pooling occurs from a tentative portfolio to a stamp tranche of tax reclaim assets step . Some embodiments may use different types of tranches to pool tax reclaim assets. Subsequently an opportunity cost analyzer may use a stamp tranche s assets to compare the effect of inflation on tax reclaim assets to a ROSESeries ABS advantage when an initial beneficial person sells its tax reclaim assets to an SPV step . The term ROSESeries ABS advantage may be used to refer to benefits of some embodiments. An opportunity cost analyzer is discussed in more detail in connection with element . For step pooled tax reclaim assets may be structured into rated ROSESeries ABS and reflect the assets of a secure tranche step .

Throughout an ABS structuring process information about pooled and securitized tax reclaim assets may be used to populate more database models as noted in step . These database models may include but are not limited to tranche model and ABS issuancemodel . In step rated ROSESeries ABS the byproducts of step become the property of an SPV trust and are made available for subsequent sale to capital market investors.

Some embodiments not only receive data to load into database models but also extract data from database models to send information to the required data recipients. Data recipients may include but are not limited to initial beneficial persons global custodian banks legal counsels and accountants Step is an illustrative example of how data may be extracted from appropriate database models. There are multiple methods for extracting data that may include but are not limited to an output data process technology solution step and manual output step . An output data process technology solution is illustrated in more detail in and . Step represents additional output data methods that may be used in conjunction with some embodiments. Step illustrates how technical and functional ACK NAK processing messages may be sent to the required third party organizations to report a processing status of the outbound data.

Output data may be of any file format and may be sent through any suitable transport method. Once the output data is prepared it may be sent to the required third party organizations as noted in step . By way of example and not limitation such third party organizations may include a trade dealer legal counsel swap dealer and accountant . Additional third party organizations may also receive output data as noted in step .

Data source providers and data recipients typically will be constantly i.e. frequently sending and receiving data respectively in order to communicate information. Alternative step shows how data source providers may send input data for population into various database models. The database models which may be populated as noted in step may include but are not limited to reconciliation transaction swap deal receipt payment trade execution and any additional database models .

For some embodiments data from database models may be retrieved for a Pricing Model step a cash and position management technology solution step and risk management tools step . A Pricing Model may include but is not limited to a deferred income from investment operations component which may calculate ROSES annual interest liability step and income on global security holdings step . A technology solution illustrated in step may be used to reconcile cash and position transactions between accounting records and custody records. An exemplary cash and position management technology solution is illustrated in more detail in . Data may also be retrieved from database models for a reporting technology solution step which may be used to generate reports for third party organizations. An exemplary reporting technology solution is illustrated in more detail in .

Some embodiments may include several risk management tools in order to mitigate risk. These tools may include an interest rate swap technology solution step illustrated in more detail in to limit exposure to interest rate fluctuations VaR technology solution step illustrated in more detail in to determine market exposure to foreign currency fluctuations and VaRbitrage technology solution step illustrated in more detail in to identify arbitrage opportunities based on VaR calculations. A trade execution technology solution step illustrated in more detail in may be used to execute trades based on trade decisions made in accordance with some embodiments.

As noted above several database models may play an integral part in the method and system of pooling securitizing and trading tax reclaim assets in accordance with some embodiments. To populate various database models associated with some embodiments a specialized input data process has been designed to address data loading requirements. This example input data process is dynamic enough to process all input data types and file formats that may be used in conjunction with a variety of embodiment. An exemplary input data process is also flexible to receive these varied input types from a multitude of organizations that serve as data source providers. Data source providers may include initial beneficial persons and third party organizations such as but not limited to global custodian banks capital market investors and underwriters. In addition input data may come from these varied data source providers over several transport mechanisms. Some embodiments also may have the functionality to process input data in multiple languages including but not limited to English German Spanish French and Italian. Depending on the number of input files some embodiments may allow multiple instances commonly referred to as multitasking of an input data process to run at the same time. In addition utilization of multithreading capability in connection with exemplary input data processes allows for optimized data loading. and illustrate an exemplary input data process in more detail.

The trigger for an input data process may be a data source provider as noted in step . Various data source providers may send data in conjunction with some embodiments. Such organizations may include but are not limited to an initial beneficial person global custodian bank credit rating agency capital market investor and any additional data source providers .

In step a data source provider may create input data. Input data may be of any data file format including but not limited to CSV file TXT file XML file and Microsoft Excel document . An input data process also accepts SWIFT MTx messages such as but not limited to MT450 cash letter credit advice MT535 statement of holdings and MT940 customer statement. Additional file formats may be accepted in accordance with some embodiments of the present invention. Contents of an input data file may vary depending on a data source provider who sent the input data. By way of example and not limitation input data may contain tax reclaim data from an initial beneficial person or a global custodian bank representing an initial beneficial person rates from a market vendor including libor rates and foreign exchange rates and investment ratings from a credit rating agency.

A data source provider may send input data across any transport mechanism as noted in step . Eligible transport mechanisms may include but are not limited to IBM WebSphere MQ Connect Direct FTP SSL SWIFT Network and any additional transport methods .

Once input data has been received by an input data process through a transport mechanism step an input data process may query several key database models in order to know how the input data may be processed. Step illustrates a database model information retrieval function. In step information may be retrieved from a data process database model. In step an interface definition database model may be queried and in step a transform handler database model may be queried for subsequent use in accordance with some embodiments. Step illustrates how additional database models beyond the three in steps may be included in a database model information retrieval function. Database models may be queried in step contain pertinent reference information regarding input data this may include but is not limited to the name of a data source provider responsible for sending input data the type of data contained in the file and which transport mechanism may be used to send the input data. Subsequent drawings detail some of the database models included in step .

In step a technical ACK NAK message may be sent to a data source provider to report a receipt status of input data. This step lets a data source provider from step know if input data was successfully or unsuccessfully received. If the latter scenario occurs it means an input data process encountered corrupt input data and a technical NAK message may be sent back to the respective data source provider to report this status. Otherwise an input data process proceeds to generate a technical ACK message and subsequently process the input file in step . illustrates an exemplary ACK NAK process in detail.

For security input data may be encrypted by a data source provider in order to safeguard confidential data and to guarantee data integrity during transport over various transport mechanisms. Accordingly step applies an algorithm to decrypt the data and to make it available to subsequent steps involved in an input data process. Some embodiments accommodate numerous file encryption technologies including but not limited to symmetric file encryptions such as Triple Data Encryption Standard 3DES Advanced Encryption Standard AES International Data Encryption Algorithm IDEA and RC6 Block Cipher and asymmetric file encryptions and signings such as Digital Signature Algorithm DSA ElGamal and RSA. As noted in step an input data process may use encryption algorithms including 3DES AES DSA ElGamal and any additional encryption algorithms to decrypt the input data in accordance with some embodiments of the present invention.

An input data process continues with a transform handler in step . During this step a specific transform handler may be applied to transform the input data into a standard data format which may be loaded into database models. Since there is flexibility for input data types and formats each transform handler is developed for the specific and unique requirements of each input data type and format combination which may manifest in light of multiple data source providers. Steps illustrate how various types of transform handlers may be utilized to process input data. Step represents additional transform handlers that may be created in accordance with some embodiments.

In step input data may be transformed into the appropriate standard format. Just as there may be multiple transform handlers may be multiple standard formats for input data to correspond to various database models and to expedite data loading. Steps represent multiple standard formats that may be used. Step represents additional standard formats that may be utilized by an input data process for subsequent population of database models in step .

Once an input data is in a standard data format an input data process inserts the data into the required database models as noted in step . For step the database models may include but are not limited to tax reclaim history step market rate data step security master identifier step and reconciliation transaction step . Step represents additional database models that comprise some embodiments.

Input data may be stored in its original language character format within a database model with an optional language identifier to denote which language the input data represents. This language identifier may be used by some embodiments where a data source provider chooses to send data in a language that is not default for some embodiments.

After input data is loaded into the required database models an input data process may conclude by sending a functional ACK NAK message in step to report a processing status of input data to the required data source providers. The creation of technical and functional ACK NAKs is illustrated in more detail in .

ACK NAK messages may be used by various exemplary technology solutions to communicate technical and functional statuses of inbound and outbound data to data source providers and recipients. Such statuses may include but are not limited to a receipt status of input data and a sending status of output data. Step covers possible technical statuses step covers various functional statuses and step represents additional statuses in accordance with some embodiments.

Step produces an ACK NAK message. Blocks represent various ACK NAK formats that are handled by an ACK NAK process including additional ACK NAK formats in accordance with some embodiments. An ACK NAK process supports several ACK NAK message formats in order to accommodate the unique requirements of each data source provider. Block represents additional ACK NAK formats that may be supported by some embodiments of the present invention.

An ACK NAK message may be encrypted to meet the security requirements of a data recipient. Step may represent the encryption of an ACK NAK message using various encryption algorithms including but not restricted to 3DES AES DSA and ElGamal . Additional encryption algorithms may be incorporated in accordance with some aspects.

In step an ACK NAK message may be sent to the required data recipients. An ACK NAK process may send a message through various transport mechanisms including but not limited to MQ Connect Direct FTP SSL the SWIFT Network and any other additional transport methods as noted by a data source provider s requirements and in accordance with some embodiments.

To calculate the statistical predictability of cash flows associated with tax reclaim assets for an initial beneficial person historical tax reclaim assets are evaluated by two establishments credit rating agencies and the system and methodology outlined in some embodiments of the present invention. With some embodiments of the present invention all of an initial beneficial person s historical tax reclaim assets regardless of the assets reclamation statuses are sent. Some embodiments of the present invention may require this historical information to understand the risk profile of an initial beneficial person s tax reclamation activity and to assign a risk level to the probability of receiving tax reclaims from foreign governments.

In step historical tax reclaim assets may be stress tested with a statistical algorithm e.g. sample variance version 2 standard deviation coefficient of variation etc. to determine reclaim historical volatility. The risk profile for each distinct tax reclaim asset group is assigned in step . Calculated risk profiles may be used to populate an investment rating database model in step .

For some embodiments there may be three pooling phases for global dividend and interest tax reclaim assets. These three pooling phases may be required to ensure the tax reclaim assets are thoroughly evaluated and the resulting structured ROSESeries ABS obtain the highest investment grade qualifications.

An initial pooling phase as illustrated in may pool tax reclaim assets from an initial beneficial person s aggregate portfolio to a tentative portfolio. An aggregate portfolio may simply represent the original tax reclaim assets received from a data source provider. A tentative portfolio on the other hand may take a discriminatory look at aggregate tax reclaim assets. Such an evaluation may include but is not limited to confirmed markets of operation for securitization unique tax reclaim assets to avoid duplicate data and verifiable calculated reclaim amounts. In a second pooling phase selected tax reclaim assets from a tentative portfolio may be pooled into a stamp tranche as illustrated in . A stamp tranche may evaluate tax reclaim assets against an assigned risk profile from in order to understand preliminary discounted values for assets. For a third pooling phase as illustrated in and a secure tranche may be created after pooling selected tax reclaim assets from a stamp tranche. This final pooling phase may represent tax reclaim assets that are securitized into ROSESeries ABS during ABS structuring.

Throughout various pooling phases multiple database models may be populated to record pooled values. One such database model may be tax reclaim active which is illustrated in . In fact this database model may be populated multiple times throughout various pooling phases. Since a tax reclaim active database model stores original tax reclaim asset information from a data source provider the same database model may be updated with additional information to record calculated verified values and changed statuses as assets traverse through multiple pooling phases.

An initial pooling process may begin with step when a data source provider sends an initial beneficial person s aggregate portfolio of tax reclaim assets. Next in step a tax reclaim active database model may be populated with active tax reclaim assets.

Steps cover an exemplary pooling process of an aggregate portfolio into a tentative portfolio. In step reclaim countries that are markets of operations may be pooled from an aggregate portfolio. As noted some embodiments of the present invention cover the pooling securitization and trading of tax reclaim assets in all local markets. While some embodiments may process tax reclaims from all local markets certain reclaim markets may be identified as candidates for securitization because of their known and accepted risk profiles as calculated in .

For step tax reclaim assets that have not already been pooled for another tentative portfolio stamp tranche or secure tranche are identified to avoid multiple securitizations of a single tax reclaim asset. Step checks to make sure calculated reclaim amounts for tax reclaims from a data source provider are verifiable when recalculated. To do this some embodiments of the present invention use information from database models such as but not limited to a statute of limitations and tax reclaim treaty rates . If calculated reclaim values do not match the reclaim amounts received by a data source provider the tax reclaim assets may no longer be considered for pooling at this time but may be included in future pools upon review.

In step projected reclaim filing dates may be calculated for tax reclaims which have not been filed by an initial beneficial person s global custodian. Some embodiments may accept tax reclaim data of varying reclaim filing statuses included but not limited to non filed and filed. Key aspects for accepting varying reclaim filing statues may include but are not restricted to a purchase and sale agreement and statute of limitations dates as denoted in double taxation treaties. A purchase and sale agreement between an initial beneficial person and an SPV may stipulate which reclaim filing statuses are acceptable per contractual terms and conditions. Tax reclaims filing dates projected per step or actual may be compared against statutes of limitations dates to ensure tax reclaim amounts may be claimed during eligibility periods.

Projected reclaim receipt dates for tax reclaim assets may be calculated in step based on reclaim filing dates and a statistical analysis of reclaim receipt dates for respective local markets as previously illustrated in . In step tax reclaims that have not exceeded their statutes of limitations may be pooled. This step may be used to ensure tax reclaims are still eligible for reclamation from the respective foreign government tax authorities.

Step may be used to ensure tax reclaim assets from an initial beneficial person s aggregate portfolio meet any additional tentative portfolio requirements. Steps and may populate certain database models to store values related to the creation of a tentative portfolio. In step a tax reclaim active database model may be populated with tentative portfolio values such as but not limited to verified statuses of calculated reclaim amounts from step projected filing dates from step and projected reclaim receipt dates from step . Step may populate a tentative portfolio database model to record the creation of a tentative portfolio.

Step represents the created tentative portfolio of tax reclaim assets. It is this group of verified tax reclaim assets that may be eligible for another round of pooling into the stamp tranche in accordance with some embodiments of the present invention.

A stamp tranche may be used to pool certain tax reclaim assets in order to assign preliminary discounted values for opportunity cost analysis and to prepare tax reclaim assets for subsequent securitization. Multiple stamp tranches may be supported by some embodiments of the present invention to pool various tax reclaim assets into specific pools for securitization. In fact if a particular tax reclaim asset does not meet the requirements of the first stamp tranche that tax reclaim asset may be reserved for subsequent pooling through another stamp tranche. is an illustrative example of how a stamp tranche may be created and how a preliminary opportunity cost analysis may be performed to compare the effect of inflation on tax reclaim assets to a ROSESeries ABS advantage when an initial beneficial person sells its tax reclaim assets to an SPV according to some aspects of the present invention.

A tranche definition from step may be referenced to formulate a stamp tranche of tax reclaim assets. Step may retrieve parameters from a stamp tranche definition in order to make sure the tax reclaim assets from a tentative portfolio meet a stamp tranche s pooling requirements. In step tax reclaim assets from a tentative portfolio may be checked to see if they meet a stamp tranche s parameter requirements. Exemplary checks from step are illustrated in more detail in . . If tax reclaim assets do not meet a stamp tranche s parameter requirements tax reclaim assets may be reserved for pooling by another stamp tranche definition at a later date and time. If tax reclaim assets pass a stamp tranche s parameter requirements the pooling of assets may proceed to step where market rate data may be retrieved in step to help support preliminary discounted value calculations.

Assigning preliminary discounted values may allow an initial beneficial person to review potential opportunity costs that may arise because of a ROSESeries ABS advantage according to aspects of the present invention. In step these preliminary discounted values may be calculated to give an initial beneficial person preliminary estimates of how much it could receive as a result of selling its tax reclaim assets to an SPV. In step calculated values for a stamp tranche may be stored in a tax reclaim active database model as updates to the respective tax reclaim assets which are a part of a stamp tranche. Additional information pertaining to a stamp tranche may be stored in a tranche database model as noted in step .

Step may mark the creation of a stamp tranche of tax reclaim assets. These tax reclaim assets may continue to a subsequent pooling process in accordance with some embodiments of the present invention. Before then in step a preliminary opportunity cost analysis may be performed so an initial beneficial person may compare estimated cash benefits of utilizing the securitization system and methodology of some embodiments of the present invention with the effect of inflation on tax reclaim assets if some embodiments of the present invention are not utilized. Step illustrates an exemplary opportunity cost analyzer yet another technology solution that may be built into some embodiments of the present invention. In step the effect of inflation on tax reclaim assets may be presented to an initial beneficial person. This step may represent the time value of money effect when an initial beneficial person s tax reclaim assets remain in the coffers of a foreign tax authority and do not earn interest. In step preliminary discounted values from step may be used to calculate a ROSESeries ABS advantage which may estimate the cash benefits if an initial beneficial person sells its tax reclaim assets to an SPV in accordance with some embodiments of the present invention. In step results from the two previous steps may be presented together in an equilibrium intercept graph. This graph may compare the inflationary effect of waiting for a foreign tax authority to pay the tax reclaims with the estimated reinvestment opportunity that is introduced to an initial beneficial person on behalf of some embodiments of the present invention. Results of the opportunity cost analyzer may be displayed graphically using any graphical software such as but not limited to Microsoft Excel.

As mentioned earlier illustrate exemplary tranche checks in detail. A number of parameters may be configured to define a tranche including but not limited to specific lists of reclaim countries fund numbers initial beneficial persons and projected tax reclaim receipt dates. Various combinations of tranche checks may allow flexibility in the way tax reclaim assets are pooled in accordance with some embodiments of the present invention. Not all parameter checks may be set for a particular tranche. Structuring requirements of ROSESeries ABS may determine which parameters of stamp and secure tranches are configured according to some embodiments.

Tranche checks may be stored in a tranche definition database model as illustrated in . Steps may represent the retrieval of stamp and secure tranche parameters from a tranche definition database model respectively. For step an initial tranche check may determine if creation of a tranche adheres to a tranche s start and end dates. This step may ensure stamp and secure tranches are created during established date intervals. In step a pooling process checks if tax reclaim assets meet the reclaim country parameter of a tranche definition. A reclaim country parameter is flexible enough to handle all local markets. Step checks if tax reclaim assets meet an initial beneficial person country of residence requirement. In step a pooling process determines if a tranche may be established based on an initial beneficial person identifier. This step allows for the assets of a particular initial beneficial person or group of initial beneficial persons to be pooled in accordance with some embodiments.

An exemplary tranche parameter check process continues as illustrated in with a check for a tranche s particular security identifiers in step . With this parameter setting certain securities may be selected for pooling in accordance with some embodiments of the present invention. For step a projected reclaim filing date parameter may be checked and for step an actual reclaim filing date may be checked. Continuing with step a stamp tranche s statute of limitations may be reviewed.

In step tax reclaim assets may be checked to see if they meet the projected reclaim receipt date parameter of a tranche. In step tax reclaim assets of a particular data source provider s projected reclaim receipt date may pooled by a tranche. Step may check if tax reclaim assets meet any additional parameters of a defined tranche. If all tranche checks from . are met the respective stamp or secure tranche may be created.

After passing a secure tranche s parameter checks in step an ABS definition database model from step may be queried in step to understand how ROSESeries ABS may be structured by an SPV. Step may represent the structuring of tax reclaim assets by an SPV into rated ROSESeries ABS. There may be a number of third party organizations involved in structuring ROSESeries ABS in accordance with some embodiments of the present invention. By way of example and not limitation steps highlight a few of these third party organizations. ABS structuring may involve an SPV originator a rating agency an underwriter a liquidity provider legal counsel a trustee a global custodian bank a servicer an accountant and a settlement location . A step may be included for additional third party organizations affiliated with an ABS structuring process according to some embodiments of the present invention. In addition some embodiments of the present invention may handle multiple third party organizations of the same organization type such as but not limited to multiple rating agencies liquidity providers and accountants involved in a single ABS structuring deal.

Once tax reclaim assets have undergone ABS structuring step may obtain an investment rating for the tax reclaim assets from a credit rating agency from step which contributed to the structuring of rated ROSESeries ABS. In step information pertaining to issued ABS may be stored in an ABS issuance database model which is illustrated in more detail in . In step a discounted value for the applicable investment rating from step may be assigned to tax reclaim assets. Next in step secure tranche values may be added to a tax reclaim active database model. As a result of ABS structuring a secure tranche of tax reclaim assets may be created in step . For step rated ROSESeries ABS become the property of an SPV trust and are available for sale in the capital market to investors.

An exemplary output data process is the converse technology solution to an input data process and . Instead of loading data into various database models associated with some embodiments an output data process extracts data from numerous database models. An output data process shares a number of exemplary characteristics with an input data process such as the adaptability to utilize multiple file formats and transport mechanisms the use of a data process database model to store key processing rules and the multithreading and multitasking functionality to optimize performance. In addition an output data process may utilize a language translation tool to generate output data in any language format including but not limited to English German Spanish French and Italian. and illustrate an exemplary output data process as it relates to some embodiments.

To start an output data process step may retrieve pertinent information on how an output data process should function and which definitions may be required to extract data. An output data process may retrieve this information from database models including but not limited to data process interface definition and transform handler. In step output definitions for a data process database model are referenced in order to get the processing rules of an output data process. In step outbound interfaces which may are assigned to an output data process may be retrieved from an interface definition database model. This step may also retrieve the individual processing rules for each interface definition. In step transform handlers which indicate how output data files may be formatted may be derived from a transform handler database model. Step may be used to query additional database models related to an output data process.

In step an output data process may extract data from the various database models. Steps illustrate how an output data process may extract data from multiple database models. Such database models include but are not limited to a report step trade execution step ABS issuance step and fund number step . An interface definition database model may indicate which database models are involved in the extraction of data. Step may be included for any additional database models required for data extraction in accordance with some embodiments.

In step an output data process may write extracted data into a standard file format. As noted earlier with an input data process a standard file format serves to expedite data handling. With a standardized format used to write data to files emphasis may be placed on unique transform handlers which may be used to meet the particular file formatting mandates of a data recipient such as an initial beneficial person credit rating agency or accountant. As noted in step there may be a multitude of standard format definitions associated with some embodiments of the present invention. Steps are illustrate examples of standard formats utilized by an output data process. Step illustrates additional standard formats that may be associated with an output data process in accordance with some embodiments.

After extracted data is written to a standard format a transform handler may be used to convert data to the required data format in step . A transform handler may contain the data formatting rules that correspond to a data recipient s requirements for output data. Steps are illustrative examples of various transform handlers that may be applied to a standard data format. Step may cover any additional transform handlers according to some embodiments in order to convert data to the required data format.

Exemplary step illustrates the resulting data file after data is transformed into the appropriate format by a transform handler. An output data file may include but is not limited to a CSV file in step TXT file in step XML file in step Microsoft Excel file format in step and SWIFT MTx message in step . Additional file formats as illustrated in step may be utilized to meet the requirements of data recipients.

An encryption algorithm as noted in step may be used to secure the integrity of output data as it is transferred to a data recipient. Exemplary encryption algorithms may include but are not limited to 3DES in step AES in step DSA in step ElGamal in step and any additional encryption algorithms that may provide security to outbound data in step .

Data may be sent over any transport mechanism to a data recipient. In step various transport mechanisms may be utilized. By way of example and not limitation such transport mechanisms may include MQ in step Connect Direct in step FTP SSL in step and the SWIFT Network in step . Additional transport methods may be employed in step in response to the requirements of a data recipient in accordance with some embodiments.

As mentioned earlier output data may be sent to various data recipients affiliated with the system and methodology of some embodiments. Step is an illustrative example of such data recipients. One such organization may be an initial beneficial person global custodian bank credit rating agency and capital market investor . Additional data recipients may receive data from an output data process as illustrated at .

An output data process may include an ACK NAK process to notify certain data recipients of an output data s processing status. By way of example and not limitation if an initial beneficial person requires an XML file with actual discounted values associated with its sold tax reclaim assets this output file may be generated by an output data process and sent to an initial beneficial person s global custodian bank. In step an ACK NAK message may be sent to an initial beneficial person to let it know an XML file was successfully generated and forwarded to its global custodian bank.

For step an ACK NAK message may be generated as illustrated in more detail in and sent to the appropriate data recipients over any transport mechanism as supported by some embodiments.

The method and system for pooling securitizing and trading global dividend and interest tax reclaim assets in accordance with some embodiments of the present invention may involve the management of countless cash and position transactions amid several third party organizations. Some embodiments of the present invention may ensure that these cash and position transactions are tracked throughout the transactional life cycle and are reconciled as part of a cash and position management process. Reconciliations may occur at any programmable frequency including but not restricted to daily monthly and annually. A cash and position management process may serve as a check and balance reporting instrument involving accounting and custody records in accordance with some embodiments.

A cash and position management reconciliatory tool may perform an array of cash and position reconciliations. One such reconciliation may include a global custodian bank s accounting record for an original tax reclaim asset accounting data versus a global custodian bank s Demand Deposit Account DDA cash record also referred to as a global foreign cash balance showing payment for that tax reclaim asset custody data . This exemplary reconciliation may confirm custody and accounting records supplied by a global custodian bank and processed as input data by some embodiments match to identify exceptions as early as possible for subsequent investigations.

A second exemplary reconciliation is the accounting holding positions for tax reclaim assets accounting data stored in various database models used by some embodiments of the present invention to a third party organization s custody positions for tax reclaim assets custody data . This exemplary reconciliation may guarantee the known tax reclaim asset holdings for some embodiments are identical to the records of a third party organization acting as a custodian.

A third exemplary reconciliation associated with some embodiments may encompass the cash accounting record used in some embodiments of the present invention which may serve as accounting data versus the DDA cash record which may serve as custody data of a third party banking organization working on behalf of some embodiments. As a result cash balances which may be reported in some embodiments of the present invention may be reconciled against the cash balances of a third party banking organization to identify variances.

A reconciliation definition from step may be retrieved from a reconciliation definition database model in step . In turn parameters from a reconciliation definition may be employed to match accounting transactions from step to their respective custody transactions from step . The matching criteria for a reconciliation which may be configured within a reconciliation definition depend on the type of cash or position transaction type involved. By way of example and not limitation the matching criteria may include an initial beneficial person identifier security identifier initial beneficial person fund number and cash account number.

In step market rate data in step may be retrieved for use in step to perform currency conversions. Since accounting and custody transactions may come from different data sources there is a possibility that accounting transactions are reported in one currency and custody transactions are reported in second currency. To compound the issue a reconciliation definition may define a third currency for which to report reconciliation results. No matter which local currencies cross currencies or base currency may be involved a cash and position management process may perform the necessary currency conversions.

For step a reconciliation exception database model may be populated with the outcome of the reconciliation. Next a financial report of exceptions may be generated for review in step . A reconciliation financial report may be one of the many report types that may be generated by a reporting technology solution used in some embodiments. With this built in technology financial information may be presented in a consistent fashion that is recognized by numerous organizations involved in the financial accounting and regulatory industries.

A preferred component of some embodiments of a suitable system is a reporting technology solution which may be used to aggregate transactional information into a reporting format. Some embodiments have the capability of utilizing other reporting tools such as but not limited to Actuate and Crystal. A resulting report may be distributed to third party organizations in accordance with some embodiments of the present invention. Reporting formats may include but are not limited to trial balance statement statement of cash flows income statement and statement of positions. is an illustrative example of a reporting technology solution.

Before a report is created a report definition as illustrated in step may exist within a report definition database model. Parameters from a reporting definition may be retrieved in step and used to identify report attributes. Report attributes may include but are not limited to a report name report file format types of transactions reported and which third party organizations may receive a report. In step reporting information from various database models may be retrieved to create a report. Reporting information may originate from any database model such as but not restricted to tax reclaim active fund number ABS issuance and swap deal receipt payment .

Step may obtain market rate data from step . Such market rate data may include but is not limited to foreign exchange rates to perform currency conversions as a part of a created report. A report definition may contain the required currency for a reporting statement.

In step a report may be created in accordance with some aspects of the present invention. In step a report may be stored in a report database model for subsequent review. If required a report may be sent to various third party organizations for review as noted in step . By way of example and not limitation an output data process according to some aspects may be utilized to format encrypt and transfer a report to the required third party organizations.

To hedge interest rate risk some embodiments may utilize interest rate swaps. A swap technology solution may be one of the many risk management tools for some embodiments of the present invention. An interest rate swap agreement allows some embodiments of the present invention and a designated swap dealer to exchange a fixed interest rate for a variable interest rate based on a negotiated notional principal amount. By receiving interest rate market data from various data sources and loading this data into the market rate database model of interest rate activity may be monitored and tracked for future rate changes. A variety of graphical software tools may be used to present interest rate market data visually. Such software tools may include but are not limited to Microsoft Excel and Quantrix Modeler. An interest rate swap technology solution may process any interest rate type including but not restricted to LIBOR and US Treasury rates.

As mentioned earlier two key components of the swap deal are a fixed interest rate and a variable interest rate. These components may be referred to as fixed and variable legs of the swap agreement respectively. In step a fixed leg of a swap deal may be calculated using a fixed interest rate and a negotiated notional principal amount for a swap deal. A variable leg as noted in step may be calculated using a variable interest rate from market rate data retrieved in step and a notional principal amount of a swap deal.

Calculated fixed and variable swap legs may be compared to determine a net payment decision. This decision may correspond to which party a fixed leg owner or a variable leg owner makes a payment to the counterparty. Some embodiments of the present invention may serve as a fixed leg owner or a variable leg owner in a swap deal based on expectations for future interest rate activity. Step may determine if a calculated fixed interest rate leg of a swap deal is greater than a variable leg. If so in step a net payment decision is for the fixed leg owner to pay the variable leg owner. A payment may correspond to a net payment value that is based on a swap deal s notional principal amount.

If the inquiry from step is not satisfied a swap process may proceed to step to determine if a variable leg of a swap deal is greater than a fixed leg. If so in step a variable leg owner pays a fixed leg owner as a net payment decision. If a fixed leg equals a variable leg as noted in step neither parties have to make payments.

Calculated swap leg and net payment decision values may be used to populate a swap deal receipt payment database model in step . Throughout the course of a swap deal net payment decisions may be configured on a scheduled basis. By way of example and not limitation a net payment interval schedule may be hourly daily or quarterly. Therefore a swap deal receipt payment database model may include multiple calculations for a single swap deal of which only certain payment intervals may represent net payment decisions for a fixed leg owner or a variable leg owner. Intermediate net payment calculations may serve as additional opportunities to monitor interest rate fluctuations. A swap deal definition database model as illustrated in detail below in may store a swap deal s net payment interval schedule.

Step may check if a swap net payment decision corresponds to a payment interval date. If not an interest rate swap process may end. If a swap net payment decision does correspond to a payment interval date a interest rate swap process may check in step to see if a payment is to be made to a swap dealer based on a net payment decision from steps or . If not notifications may be sent to third party organizations in step to inform them of a net payment decision. Notified third party organizations may include but are not limited to a global custodian bank that may serve as a custodian on behalf of some embodiments of the present invention and a swap dealer.

If a payment is made to a swap dealer a payment may be sent to a swap dealer in step . Various methods may be used to make a swap deal payment including but not limited to an output data process. An interest rate swap process may still send notifications to third party organizations regarding a net payment decision in step .

As mentioned earlier a VaR technology solution may determine the value at risk exposure to fluctuations in foreign currencies. A VaR technology solution may utilize any local markets currencies cross currencies and the base market s currency in accordance with some embodiments of the present invention. FIG. and are illustrative examples of how value at risk is calculated. A VaR technology solution may identify value at risk at multiple times throughout the day.

To start a VaR process VaR definition parameters from step may be retrieved from a VaR definition database model during step . Information from a VaR database model in step may be retrieved during step . A VaR database model may include but is not limited to a foreign exchange contract deliver and receive currencies historical range indicator and running mark to market sum. Market rate data in step may be used to retrieve market data during step for subsequent VaR formulas. This market data may include but is not restricted to foreign exchange rates and LIBOR rates.

Step may determine which historical range of LIBOR rates to use for a mark to market average. A VaR technology solution may apply various historical ranges including but not limited to a specific historical range as stipulated in a VaR database model from step or a VaR technology solution may determine which historical range to apply based on the most aggressive average. By way of example and not limitation a VaR technology solution may include four historical range averages that may be utilized. One is an exemplary full historical range average that utilizes all mark to market calculations to date to determine an average. A second is an exemplary 30 day historical range average that utilizes mark to market values for the past 30 days. A third is an exemplary 5 day historical range average that pulls mark to market calculations for the past 5 days in order to compute a historical range average. A fourth is an exemplary intraday historical range average that retrieves hourly mark to market values for the current day and calculates an average.

Step may calculate a sample variance version 2 value. In order to derive this value a VaR process may calculate a variance for the current day. This variance may be determined by squaring the difference between a current mark to market value the result from step and a historical average the result from step .

Step may compute the standard deviation for a VaR calculation. The following exemplary formula may be utilized for this step 

A VaR calculation process may compute mark to market averages minus and plus standard deviation in step . This step may allow VaR to be calculated at select confidence levels. These confidence levels may include but are not limited to 95 and 99 in accordance with some embodiments of the present invention. For 95 confidence a mark to market value average from step and standard deviation from step may be used to determine the minus and plus 2 standard deviation using these exemplary formulas minus 2 standard deviation calculated mark to market average 2 the calculated standard deviation plus 2 standard deviation calculated mark to market average 2 the calculated standard deviation 

For 99 confidence a mark to market average step and standard deviation calculation step may be used to determine the minus and plus 3 standard deviation using these two exemplary formulas minus 3 standard deviation calculated mark to market average 3 the calculated standard deviation plus 3 standard deviation calculated mark to market average 3 the calculated standard deviation 

Step may calculate VaR at 95 and 99 confidence levels. One exemplary property of a normal distribution is that outcomes less than or equal to 1.96 standard deviations below a mean occur only 5 of the time. If a probability of 5 may be used in determining VaR then VaR may equal to 1.96 times standard deviation. Using this value VaR at 95 confidence may be determined with this exemplary formula VaR 1.96 portfolio

For 99 confidence one exemplary property of a normal distribution is that outcomes less than or equal to 2.576 standard deviations below a mean occur only 1 of the time. If a probability of 1 may be used in determining VaR then VaR may equal to 2.576 times standard deviation. This exemplary formula calculates VaR at 99 confidence VaR 2.576 portfolio

Next in step a targeted VaR amount may be calculated at 95 and 99 confidence levels. For 95 confidence targeted VaR amount may be determined by adding a mark to market calculated average from step and VaR at 95 confidence from step . A similar addition may take place to determine a targeted VaR amount at 99 confidence by substituting VaR at 95 with VaR at 99 confidence from step .

In step VaR calculations and intermediate calculations to determine VaR may be stored in a VaR calculation database model. This database model is illustrated in more detail in . For step the processing status for VaR calculations may be sent to third party organizations in accordance with some embodiments. A VaRbitrage process which is illustrated in detail in and may be initiated in step to identify a risk free arbitrage opportunity.

While a VaR process illustrated in and may be used to identify a targeted value at risk amount a VaRbitrage process may utilize a targeted VaR amount to identify a risk free arbitrage opportunity. and are illustrative examples of a VaRbitrage process in accordance with some embodiments.

In step a VaRbitrage definition may be used to retrieve VaRbitrage parameters during step . These parameters may include but are not limited to an associated VaR definition indicating a targeted VaR amount for a VaRbitrage opportunity and an interest rate system that may be used to calculate a trade activity limit. A VaRbitrage database model from step may be queried in step to obtain additional information about a VaRbitrage event such as but not limited to start and end dates.

Market rate data from step may retrieved during step for subsequent interest rate calculations. By way of example and not limitation this market data may be used to calculate an interest rate difference between deliver and receive currencies in step and to calculate a forward spot rate difference between deliver and receive currencies in step . Step uses the following exemplary formula to compute an interest rate difference interest rate difference 

Step uses the following exemplary formula to compute a forward spot rate difference forward spot rate difference Forward Spot Spot where Forward may correspond to a foreign exchange forward ask rate from a deliver currency to a receive currency and Spot may correspond to a foreign exchange spot asking rate from a deliver currency to a receive currency.

Steps may determine a trade decision if an arbitrage opportunity favors borrowing a deliver currency and lending a receive currency borrowing a receive currency and lending a deliver currency or if no arbitrage opportunity could be determined based on current market activity. An arbitrage trading decision may take into account the cost of executing an arbitrage opportunity. In step if an interest rate difference from step is less than a forward spot rate difference from step a trade decision in step may be to borrow a deliver currency and lend the a receive currency. If an interest rate difference is greater than a forward spot rate difference as evaluated in step a trade decision in step may to borrow a receive currency and lend a deliver currency. In step if two rate differences equal a VaRbitrage process may initiate a trade in any local market or the base market because no arbitrage opportunity exists at the specific time.

VaRbitrage calculations and trading decisions may be stored in a VaRbitrage calculation database model in step . Based on the results of a VaRbitrage trading decision a VaRbitrage process may invoke one of two courses of actions based on the trade execution parameter of a VaRbitrage definition. A definition may stipulate if a trade is automatically executed by a VaRbitrage process and if so what type of trading decision exists. For example one VaRbitrage definition may stipulate that VaRbitrage opportunities associated with lending a deliver currency and borrowing a receive currency can trigger an automated trade execution while another VaRbitrage definition may stipulate the same trade decision is subject to manual review before a trade is executed outside of a VaRbitrage process.

In step a VaRbitrage process may check to see if a VaRbitrage definition is configured to trigger an automated trade execution. If so a VaRbitrage process checks in step if there is a trading decision based on a VaRbitrage opportunity. If this check is verifiable as well step may execute a trade based on a VaRbitrage opportunity decision. If an arbitrage opportunity is not revealed but a VaRbitrage definition is still configured to execute a trade action may be taken in step utilizing an alternative market currency. This alternative market currency may include any local markets currencies cross currencies and the base market s currency in accordance with some embodiments of the present invention.

In step an ACK NAK notification may be sent to third party organizations to report a processing status of a VaRbitrage calculation and trading decision. If a VaRbitrage definition is not configured to execute a trade automatically as noted in step an ACK NAK notification may include the details of a VaRbitrage trade which may occur based on manual review and approval. Otherwise if a trade is executed automatically an ACK NAK notification from step may give the processing status of an executed trade.

Some embodiments of the present invention may execute trade orders with various dealers. The types of trades that may be executed may include but are not limited to arbitrage trading activity. is an illustrative example of a trade execution technology solution.

In step a trade execution definition may be used to retrieve pertinent trade execution parameters during step . These parameters may include but are not limited to a trade dealer identifier and the type of trades that may be executed for a particular trade dealer definition. Next a trade execution process may reference pending trade information in step . By way of example and not restriction this information may originate from another technology solution such as a VaRbitrage process in order to execute an arbitrage opportunity trading decision.

In step an exemplary trade execution process checks if the trade may be executed directly on a dealer station system. If so trade information may be sent to a dealer station system in step . For this step a trade may be executed in real time to avoid any bottlenecks in trade processing. The dynamics of a dealer station system may determine how step is executed. Some embodiments may send trade information using an output data process. If a trade may not to be executed directly through a dealer station system a trade execution process may go to step in order to have a trade executed manually.

In step a trade execution database model may be populated with trade information. If a trade is outstanding because it may still need to be executed manually as noted from step a trade execution database model may be updated accordingly. In step an ACK NAK notification may be sent to third party organizations to report a status of a trade this may include but is not limited to the status of a pending trade and a real time trade execution.

Some embodiments may handle a pricing methodology which may be useful to understand how best to structure and price ROSESeries ABS. Potential revenue sources include but are not limited to a pricing spread on a purchase and sale agreement and deferred income from investment operations. Such pricing methodology may be guided by but is not limited to opportunity costs between global investors and an SPV. Under the current tax reclamation process global investors wait for tax reclaims to be collected from foreign government tax authorities with no consideration for the effect of inflation or time value of money on their tax reclaim assets. Therefore in order to overcome the opportunity costs that exist within the current methodology of tax reclaim collection ROSES has estimated its pricing model may be guided by but is not restricted to the general market inflationary rate.

A pricing spread revenue source may occur when an initial beneficial person sells its tax reclaim assets to an SPV per the terms and conditions of a purchase and sale agreement as illustrated in step . During the negotiations of a purchase and sale agreement current and historical market inflationary rates may act as guides for selecting a ROSES discounted rate for the purchase and sale agreement relative to current market conditions and other market indexes i.e. US Treasury libor etc . A ROSES discounted rate may be used to price the sale of tax reclaim assets from an initial beneficial person to an SPV. A ROSES discounted rate may also be referred to as a purchase and sale agreement discounted rate. In addition a purchase and sale agreement may establish floor and cap values for an agreed ROSES discounted rate.

Once current floor and cap values are established the current and historical market inflationary rates may be compared against various market indexes in step to result in the selection of ROSES discounted rate per step .

In step a present value based on the future value of a tax reclaim amount may be calculated using a selected ROSES discounted rate and the following exemplary formula 

For some embodiments deferred income may be closely aligned with the system s global investment performance and core investment operational modeling. Such investment operation modeling may be designed to take advantage of interest rate differentials that may exist within jurisdictional tax markets including but not restricted to North America European Union Greece and Spain. Interest rate differentials may be executed using risk free arbitrage opportunities in order to maximize profit and minimize risk with risk free arbitrage trades. Arbitrage trades may be executed when the certainty of risk free profits exist. and are illustrative examples of how deferred income from investment operations may be derived in support of a Pricing Model.

In step attributes of securitized ROSESeries ABS are retrieved from an ABS issuance database model in step . An ABS issuance database model is illustrated in more detail in model . Such attributes include but are not limited to blackout period investment rating and maturity date. In step market rate data retrieved from step may be used to support interest rate differential calculations culminating to a deferred income from investment operations.

In step a blackout period may be one of the many inputs used to calculate a compounding periodic accrued interest liability which may be owed to ROSESeries creditors during a blackout period. A blackout period may be used to accommodate statutes of limitations outlined in various double taxation treaties which govern time limits for filing tax reclaims with concerned foreign government tax authorities. In addition a blackout period may be used to file and collect the assigned tax reclaim assets and potentially invest these assets in order to accrue and pay ROSESeries ABS coupon payments to creditors.

A compounding periodic accrued interest liability during a blackout period may be calculated using the following exemplary formula 

Interim compounding interest periods during a blackout period include but are not limited to monthly quarterly semiannually or annually. Selection of an appropriate interim compounding interest period may be based on prevailing market conditions. After a blackout period a new current face value of tax reclaim assets as noted in step may be used for subsequent ROSES coupon payments until maturity. This current face value may equal the par value of ROSESeries ABS plus interest accrued during a blackout period. In step an interest liability database model as illustrated in more detail in model may be populated.

With a new current face value a periodic accrued interest liability representing a ROSES interest liability may be calculated in step . This amount may not have a compounding interest component since it is after a blackout period. ROSES interest liability may be paid to ROSESeries creditors at periodic times including but not limited to monthly quarterly semiannually or annually. ROSES interest liability may be calculated using the following exemplary formula where Basis may equal but is not restricted to 30 360 30 365 and Actual Actual 

In step an interest liability calculation database model may be populated with a ROSES interest liability value.

Step covers some embodiments of the present invention s investment program based on interest rate differentials between ROSESeries coupon liability and investment activities in global security holdings. Global securities may be selected based on various criteria that may identify their equivalency to ROSESeries ABS security attributes including but not limited to investment grade ratings coupon rates issuance and trading in major currencies and maturity periods.

In step selected global securities may be reviewed to determine if they have risk free arbitrage opportunities. The following exemplary formula may be used to determine if such opportunities exist 

When risk free arbitrage opportunities are identified investment income payments on global security holdings may be calculated in step using the following exemplary formula where Basis may equal but is not restricted to 30 360 30 365 and Actual Actual 

In step a deferred income from investment operations may be calculated by subtracting ROSES interest liability as calculated in step from investment income payments on global security holdings as calculated in step . In step an investment income database model may be populated.

The technological solutions of some embodiments may handle multilingual processing for languages including but not limited to English German Spanish French and Italian. Technological solutions that may retrieve data for users receive inbound data and create outbound data may accept information in any language translate to any required language and store information in its original language character format within any exemplary database model. A language translator tool may be responsible for providing language translating functionality according to some aspects of the present invention. In addition a third party language translation tool may be used according to some aspects of the invention.

Step represents input data for some embodiments and how this data may originate from a user via a graphical user interface of some embodiments or a data source provider. With the former a user may log onto a graphical user interface as noted in step . A user may select his her desired language in step from a drop down list of language options for some embodiments of the present invention. The permissible languages correspond to a list of languages in a language database model . In step a user may enter text in his her desired language. Step may represents input data from a data source provider right before the data is inserted into database models. Before input data may be inserted into various database models a language identifier for the input data as stored in an interface definition data model may be retrieved to denote the language of input data. An inbound language identifier may be retrieved in step from the interface definition database model.

In step the data set may be stored in the respective database models using the data set s original language. The original language may correspond to a user s desired language step or a language identifier step depending on the source of the input data. Next in step a language identifier may be set to correspond to the original language selection. This identifier may be used by some embodiments to identify which language to translate from when the time comes to extract the data set.

Multilingual processing for outbound data may work in a similar way as described above for inbound data according to some aspects of the present invention. In step output data may be retrieved from various database models. To identify what data to retrieve a user may log onto a graphical user interface of some embodiments of the present invention as noted in step or an output data process may be used to extract data as noted in step .

With the former method in step a user may log onto a graphical user interface of some embodiments of the present invention and in step a user may select his her desired language from a drop down list of language options for some embodiments of the present invention. In step a user may select a set of data to retrieve from various database models. In step an output data process may extract data from various database models as illustrated earlier in step . Next in step the language identifier of an output data s corresponding interface definition may be retrieved from an interface definition database model to denote the required language to translate output data.

In step the original language of retrieved data may be identified. In step the original language may be compared to the required language to determine if a language translation is necessary. If the two languages match no translation is required and the retrieved data set may be made available as output data in step . Otherwise a language translator tool of some embodiments of the present invention may translate the retrieved data from its original language to the required language format in step .

Technological solutions of some embodiments may be designed to send and receive information through the Internet or another network s . is an illustrative example of a network topology for some embodiments. This network topology may be utilized to ensure communications through various technological transport mechanisms are done in a secure and efficient manner.

In step data may be sent through the Internet and received by a router as noted in step . A router may be used as a bridge between an external network and an internal network in accordance with some embodiments. A router may also be used to determine the best path to transfer information to and from an external network to an internal network according to some aspects of the present invention. In step a firewall may be used by some embodiments to prevent unauthorized access to and from an internal network. Some embodiments may utilize a hardware and or software firewall to provide extended security. In step some embodiments may utilize a Demilitarized Zone DMZ to act as an additional protective buffer between external and internal networks. Servers in the DMZ may include but are not limited to web servers reverse proxy servers Domain Name System DNS and email servers. An exemplary DMZ ensures Internet facing devices that process direct Internet traffic are separated from devices that do not process direct Internet traffic. For an extra layer of network security a second firewall may be established in step to segregate a DMZ from an internal network.

An internal network as illustrated in step may contain various computer devices which may be used to support some embodiments of the present invention. These devices may include but are not limited to employee PCs printers faxes copiers file servers and internal web servers used for a local Intranet. An internal network may also contain various application and database servers which may be used as hardware components that may house the technological solutions for some embodiments of the present invention. Some embodiments of the present invention may include multiple server regions but are not restricted to development user acceptance testing client user acceptance testing performance production high availability and disaster recovery. The latter two regions high availability and disaster recovery may be established to guarantee the 24 hour 7 days a week uptime of the technological solutions of some embodiments of the present invention.

Steps may be reversed to represent the process flow of data from an internal network to the Internet in accordance with some embodiments of the present invention.

Database model is an illustrative example highlighting the storage of data process information. This database model may be utilized by input and output data processes to determine how to handle inbound and outbound data respectively.

For a data process database model a field . may be used to store the unique identifier of a data process which may be used by various technology solutions for referential purposes. A field . may be provided to store the full name of a data process a field . for the description of a data process entry and a field . to distinguish inbound and outbound data processes. Field . may be used to store additional information related to a data process database model.

In addition to some system method embodiments having the capability to launch multiple instances of a data process a single data process may be configured to process multiple data files. Each data file may be treated as a single interface definition. For some embodiments of the present invention a term interface definition may be used to distinguish a unique inbound or outbound data file. Database model illustrates exemplary fields associated with an interface definition database model.

For an interface definition database model a field . may be provided for the unique identifier reference for an interface definition. An interface definition database model may include a field . to identify which data process is responsible for loading or extracting data for an interface definition. A foreign key relationship FK may exist to link multiple interface definitions to a single data process identifier within database model . An interface definition database model may also include a field . for the full name of an interface definition and a field . for an interface definition description.

An interface definition database model may provide a field . to identify the transport mechanism e.g. MQ Connect Direct SFTP SWIFT Network etc. for a particular definition and a field . for a transport location such as but not limited to a queue name for MQ or a file system directory. A field . may be provided to connect an interface definition with its transform handler identifier. A foreign key relationship FK may exist to link an interface definition to a transform handler which is defined in a transform handler database model . A transform handler may contain specific data processing instructions for inbound and outbound data. A field . may exist in an interface definition database model to identify which encryption algorithm may be used to encrypt or decrypt data depending on the inbound or outbound direction of an interface definition.

A field . may be used to identify a third party organization responsible for creating or receiving the data. An interface definition database model may include a field . to identify the language of the data. A field . represents additional fields that may be included in an interface definition database model for more information.

Step introduced the concept and exemplary usage of a transform handler. Database model illustrates a transform handler database model that may be referenced during the transform function of an input or output data process. A transform handler database model may include a field . for a transform handler s unique identifier a field . for the full name of a transform handler a field . for a transform handler description a field . for a transform handler s file name and a field . for additional information that may be housed in a transform handler database model according to some embodiments. Embodiments of the present invention may leverage any file format to define transform handlers including but not limited to CSV TXT and XML.

Technology solutions associated with some embodiments may include various processing rules that may be applied during runtime including but not restricted to input data processes output data processes and interface definitions. Such rules may include but are not limited to start and stop times threshold settings directory locations and instructions for error handling. A rule database model may be used to store various processing rules. A field . may be used to link a rule to its respective technology solution. For example if a rule is linked to a data process the value in field . may correspond to data process unique identifier from field . .

Fields . . may define unique characteristics of a rule. Field . gives the full name of a rule and field . gives a description of a rule. Since multiple rules may be associated with a particular technology solution field . may state in what order a rule is applied. A rule s keyword and value may be stored in fields . and . respectively. By way of example and not restriction a rule may state a particular data process runs every day at 7 00 amEST. For this example the rule s keyword would be start time and the rule s value would be 7 00 amEST . Field . may be used to store additional information in conjunction with a rule database model.

Database model is an illustrative example of an initial beneficial person database model according to some implementations. In turn this database model may serve as a master inventory of all initial beneficial persons that take advantage of the system and method of pooling securitizing and trading tax reclaim assets in accordance with some embodiments.

By way of example and not limitation an initial beneficial person database model may include a field . for the unique identifier of an initial beneficial person a field . for the full name of an initial beneficial person a field . for the description of an initial beneficial person a field . for the unique identifier of an initial beneficial person s global custodian bank a field . for an initial beneficial person s country of residence and a field . for an initial beneficial person type code. An initial beneficial person type code may represent what type of entity an initial beneficial person is such as but not limited to a pension fund non profit organization individual or corporate entity. FK may represent a foreign key relationship that may link an initial beneficial person type code from an initial beneficial person database model to the details of a type code in an initial beneficial person type database model .

Some embodiments may use a contact information database model to store the contact information of initial beneficial persons and third party organizations. An initial beneficial person database model may include a field . to identify the contact information for an initial beneficial person s point of contact. FK may represent a foreign key relationship between exemplary contact information and initial beneficial person database models.

An initial beneficial person database model may also include a field . to identify an initial beneficial person s contract for using the system and methodology of some embodiments of the present invention. FK may be used as a foreign key relationship linking an initial beneficial person s contract identifier to a contract s details within a contractual definition database model .

For some embodiments data from multiple languages may be stored in database models. To identify the language of data record a language identifier may be added as a field to a database model. Field . is an example of a language identifier stored in an initial beneficial person database model. A field . may be used to store additional initial beneficial person information that may be required in accordance with some embodiments.

As mentioned above an initial beneficial person type may denote the structure of an initial beneficial person s organization. Each data source provider such as but not limited to an initial beneficial person global custodian bank and credit rating agency may have different classifications of organization structures. An exemplary initial beneficial person type database model may be used to match the organization structure classifications of a data source provider with defined organization structures of some embodiments. Consequently tax reclaim assets from various data source providers may be subjected to consistent consideration for an organization structure in accordance with some embodiments.

An initial beneficial person type database model may include a field . for an initial beneficial person type code a field . for the full name of an initial beneficial person type code and a field . for a corresponding description of an initial beneficial person type code. An initial beneficial person type database model may also include a field . for additional information.

Different data source providers including but not limited to initial beneficial persons and global custodian banks may categorize initial beneficial person entities in different ways. For example two data source providers may use different categorizations for initial beneficial persons who are non profit organizations. One data source provider may break down non profit organizations into separate categories such as charity foundation and religious organizations . Another data source provider may not take such a granular approach instead opting to group all such entities into one non profit organization category. Implementation of some aspects of the disclosed system and method concepts may request initial beneficial person type information from data source providers in order to treat different initial beneficial persons in a consistent manner across different organizations.

A third party organization initial beneficial person type database model may be used to store initial beneficial person categorizations for various data source providers. Such a database model may include a field . for a third party organization s initial beneficial person type code and field . identifying the third party organization that supplied an initial beneficial person type code. This third party organization may be an initial beneficial person as identified in an initial beneficial person database model or a third party organization as identified in a third party organization database model .

A third party organization initial beneficial person type database model may also include a field . indicating which initial beneficial person type code as categorized by some embodiments of the present invention match the initial beneficial person type code of a third party organization. FK may serve as a foreign key relationship linking a third party organization initial beneficial person type database model with an initial beneficial person type code database model .

A third party organization initial beneficial person type database model may provide a field . for the full name of an initial beneficial person type code a field . for a description of the type code a field . to indicate which language a data record is and a field . for any additional information related to a third party organization s initial beneficial person types.

As mentioned in earlier text a contact information database model may be used to store the contact details of an initial beneficial person and third party organization. Such details include but are not limited to phone number and email address.

A contact information database model may provide a field . to distinguish unique data records. This may be used by other database models to identify a particular contact. A contact information database model may also provide a field . for a contact s organization type e.g. initial beneficial person or third party organization and a field . to link the contact to an organization identifier. In addition a contract information database model may include a field . for a contact s full name a field . for a contact s phone number a field . for an email address and a field . for a contact s mailing address. A field . may also be provided for any additional contact information.

Third party organization data may be stored in an exemplary third party organization database model in accordance with some embodiments. A third party organization database model may give the details of a third party organization including its full name organizational type and contract reference. The types of third party organizations stored in this database model may include but are not limited to global custodian banks underwriters legal counsel credit rating agencies and trade dealers.

The corresponding database model may include a field . for the unique identifier of a third party organization which may be used as a point of reference throughout some embodiments of the present invention a field . for a third party organization s full name a field . for a description of the third party organization and a field . for a third party organization type code. A foreign key relationship as noted by FK may be used to link field . to type code details in a third party organization type database model .

A field . may be used to store a third party organization s contact identifier. FK may represent a foreign key relationship linking a third party organization s contact identifier to a contact information database model. A field . may also be provided to reference a contract negotiated with a third party organization. FK may be provided to link a unique contract identifier for a third party organization with a contract s details in database model . A third party organization database model may also include a field . for any additional information pertaining to a third party organization.

With so many third party organizations involved in the system and methodology of pooling securitizing and trading tax reclaim assets in accordance with some embodiments a third party organization type database model may be required to distinguish a third party organization s role as it relates to those embodiments. While an exemplary third party organization database model illustrated in stores the details of all third parties an accompanying third party organization type database model may link a third party name to its organization type i.e. global custodian bank underwriter legal counsel etc. .

For pooling securitizing and trading global and interest tax reclaim assets in accordance with the system and methodology of some embodiments of the present invention various contractual agreements may be negotiated with numerous parties including but not limited to initial beneficial persons global custodian banks data source providers for market rate data rating agencies and underwriters. A contractual definition database model as illustrated in may be used by some embodiments of the present invention to obtain information about specific contracts.

A contractual definition database model may include a field . for a contract unique identifier a field . for the full name of a contract a field . for the description of a contractual definition a field . for a contract s start date a field . for a contract s end date and a field . for an identifier of the counterparty for which a contractual agreement is negotiated with. For example a counterparty may be an initial beneficial person as detailed in database model or a third party organization as detailed in database model . A contractual definition database model may include a field . for a contractual type code which may distinguish different types of contracts stored in this database model. Such a contractual type code may be defined in a type code database model as illustrated in . A field . may be used in a contractual definition database model to store any additional contractual information that may be required for some embodiments.

While a contractual definition database model may provide high level information pertaining to a contract a contractual term database model may contain the detailed terms and conditions of a contract. FK is a foreign key relationship that may be used to link a contract as noted by a contractual definition database model to its detailed terms and conditions in a contractual term database model.

A contractual term database model may include a field . to link contract terms to a particular contract. A contractual term database model may also include a field . for a term sort identifier to identify which order a contractual agreement s terms should be applied. In addition A contractual term database model may provide a field . for a contract term s keyword and a field . for a contract term s value. A field . may be provided for additional contractual information.

As noted in earlier text some embodiments may use historical tax reclaim records to understand an initial beneficial person s historical tax reclaim activity. Historical tax reclaim records may be stored in a tax reclaim history database model .

By way of example and not limitation some embodiments of such a database model for historical tax reclaim assets may include a field . for a tax reclaim asset s unique identifier a field . for a reclaim country of origin which may reflect any local market and a field . for a fund number. FK may used as a foreign key to ensure fund numbers stored in the tax reclaim history database model exist in a fund number database model . A tax reclaim history database model may provide a field . for an initial beneficial person identifier. A foreign key relationship FK may be used to link an initial beneficial person identifier field within a tax reclaim history database model to the details of that initial beneficial person within an initial beneficial person database model . To store information pertaining to an asset s security identifier a tax reclaim history database model may include a field . for a security identifier and a field . to identify the data source of a security identifier.

A tax reclaim history database model may include a field . to track the reclaim filing status of an asset. A foreign key as noted by FK may be used to reference the particulars of a reclaim filing status value in a reclaim filing status master database model . As noted in step some embodiments of the present invention may recalculate reclaim amounts in order to verify original tax reclaim data before securitization. In order to store findings of a recalculation process a tax reclaim history database model may provide a field . for a reclaim calculation verified status and a field . for the date a recalculation was performed.

A tax reclaim history database model may include a field . for an asset s share quantity amount and a field . for a dividend and interest rate. A field . may be included for a gross dividend and interest amount a field . for a net dividend and interest amount a field . for a dividend and interest currency and a field . for a dividend and interest payment date. A field . may be provided for a reclaim entitlement amount a field . for the reclaim entitlement currency a field . for a foreign tax amount a field . for a tax withholding rate a field . for a tax treaty rate a field . for a tax reclaim rate and a field . for a tax credit rate. Another field . may be provided for an ex dividend date a field . for a statute of limitations date a field . for a reclaim filing date and a field . for a record date. A tax reclaim history database model may provide a field . for a projected reclaim receipt date based on a statistical analysis of an initial beneficial person s historical tax reclaim activity and a field . for a third party organization s projected reclaim receipt date.

A tax reclaim history database model may be used to store receipt and collected reclaim accounts. Reclaim receipt fields . . may represent receipt information from a foreign tax authority to a global custodian bank. Reclaim collected fields . . may represent how much of a reclaim amount was actually collected by an initial beneficial person from its global custodian bank. In turn a tax reclaim history database model may provide a field . for a reclaim receipt amount a field . for a reclaim receipt currency and a field . for a reclaim receipt date. A tax reclaim history database model may also include a field . for a reclaim collected amount a field . for a reclaim collected currency and a field . for a reclaim collected date.

To identify the language used to store a historical tax reclaim record a field . may be used. A tax reclaim history database model may also use a field . to store any additional information pertaining to historical tax reclaims.

While historical tax reclaims may be stored in a tax reclaim history database model active tax reclaims which are candidates for pooling securitization and trading in accordance with some aspects of the present invention may be stored in a separate database model referred to as tax reclaim active . Storing these two types of tax reclaim assets in separate database models may help to ensure tax reclaims that have already been collected are not pooled for securitization.

A tax reclaim active database model may include many of the same fields as a tax reclaim history database model. A tax reclaim active database model may provide a field . to distinguish unique tax reclaims a field . for a reclaim country of origin a field . for a fund number which is linked to a fund number database model through a foreign key relationship FK and a field . for an initial beneficial person identifier which is linked to an initial beneficial person database model through a foreign key relationship FK.

A tax reclaim active database model may also include a field . for the security identifier of an asset and a field . to denote the data provider for a security. A field . may be provided to track the reclaim filing status of an asset. This field may be linked to a reclaim filing status master database model through a foreign key FK. If a tax reclaim s calculated values are verified during a tentative portfolio pooling process as noted in step a verification status may be stored in field . and a verification date may be stored in field .. If a reclaim is identified as a candidate for a pooling phase i.e. tentative portfolio stamp tranche and secure tranche a field . may be used to denote a reclaim securitization status. FK may be used as a foreign key to link a reclaim securitization status to its details as stored in a reclaim securitization status database model .

A tax reclaim active database model may include a field . for an asset s share quantity amount and a field . for a dividend and interest rate. A field . may be included for a gross dividend and interest amount a field . for a net dividend and interest amount a field . for a dividend and interest currency and a field . for a dividend and interest payment date. A field . may be provided in a tax reclaim active database model for a reclaim entitlement amount a field . for a reclaim entitlement currency a field . for a foreign tax amount a field . for a tax withholding rate a field . for a tax treaty rate a field . for a tax reclaim rate and a field . for a tax credit rate. A field . may be provided within a tax reclaim active database model for an ex dividend date a field . for a statute of limitations date a field . for a reclaim filing date and a field . for a record date. A tax reclaim active database model may provide a field . for a projected reclaim receipt date based on an applied statistical analysis of an initial beneficial person s historical tax reclaim activity and a field . for a third party organization s projected reclaim receipt date.

Reclaim receipt fields within a tax reclaim active database model . . may represent receipt information from a foreign tax authority to a global custodian bank. Reclaim collected fields within a tax reclaim active database model . . may represent how much of a reclaim amount was actually collected by an SPV trust from its global custodian bank. In turn a tax reclaim active database model may provide a field . for a reclaim receipt amount a field . for a reclaim receipt currency a field . for a reclaim receipt date a field . for a reclaim collected amount a field . for a reclaim collected currency and a field . for a reclaim collected date.

A tax reclaim active database model may include fields . . to track information related to various pooling phases in accordance with some embodiments of the present invention. If a tax reclaim asset is pooled into a tentative portfolio as previously illustrated in a field . may be used for a tentative portfolio identifier as stored in detail in a tentative portfolio database model . FK may serve as a foreign key relationship linking a tentative portfolio identifier from a tax reclaim active database model to an identifier s details within a tentative portfolio database model. If a tax reclaim asset is pooled into a stamped tranche as previously illustrated in a field . may be provided to store a stamp tranche identifier and a field . for a calculated preliminary discounted value as noted in step . If a tax reclaim asset is pooled into a secure tranche as illustrated in and a field . may be included to store a secure tranche identifier a field . for an ABS issuance identifier and a field . for a discounted value.

A tax reclaim active database model may provide a field . for a language identifier to denote the language of a data record. A field . may also be provided to store any additional information relating to an active tax reclaim asset.

A fund number may serve as reference data for an initial beneficial person s investment activity. With a fund number an organization e.g. initial beneficial person global custodian bank etc. may group certain assets based on factors such as but not limited to investment strategy type of assets and country of security issuance. Some embodiments of the present invention may use a fund number to group tax reclaim assets in a manner familiar to an organization such as but not limited to an initial beneficial person and global custodian bank. A fund number database model may be provided to store fund number information.

Within a fund number database model a field . may be provided for a fund number. A field . may also be provided for a portfolio identifier. A portfolio identifier may organize fund numbers into groups based on similarities. FK may serve as a foreign key linking a fund number to a portfolio in a portfolio database model . A fund number database model may also include a field . to identify an initial beneficial person that may use a fund number for referential purposes. FK may be used as a foreign key relationship to link a fund number to an initial beneficial person identifier in an initial beneficial person database model . A fund number database model may provide a field . for the full name of a fund number a field . for a fund description a field . to identify the language of a data record and a field . for additional information related to a fund number.

As previously mentioned a portfolio identifier may be used to group fund numbers in accordance with some embodiments. A portfolio database model as noted in may include a field . for a portfolio s unique identifier and a field . to identify an initial beneficial person identifier which may use a portfolio to group fund information. A foreign key FK may be used to link a portfolio to an initial beneficial person as detailed in an initial beneficial person database model . A portfolio database model may include a field . for the full name of a portfolio a field . for the description of a portfolio and a field . to identify the language of a data record. Within a portfolio database model a field . may represent additional information about a portfolio.

In the financial industry numerous national and international security identification systems may be used by various organizations to identify a specific security. For example in some countries such as the US and Canada a CUSIP as allocated by the Committee on Uniform Security Identification Procedures may be the primary security identification system. In other countries the primary security identification system may be ISIN International Securities Identification Number as allocated by a country s respective National Numbering Agency . In order to identify a security regardless of its assigned national or international identification a security master identifier database model may be used to store security identifiers and their related values across multiple identification systems.

A security master identifier database model may include a field . for a unique security identifier in accordance with some embodiments a field . for the ISIN representation of a security a field . for the SEDOL Stock Exchange Daily Official List value of a security a field . for the CUSIP representation of a security and a field . for the CINS CUSIP International Numbering System value of a security. A security master identifier database model may also include a field . for a security identifier s country of origin. A field . may be provided for a security type code as detailed in a security master type database model . A foreign key FK may be provided to link a security type code entry in a security master identifier database model to a security master type database model data entry.

A security master identifier database model may also include a field . for a security s full name a field . for the description of a security and a field . to identify the data source provider of a security. A field . may also be provided for any additional security identifier information that may be used in conjunction with some embodiments.

Similar to the multiple initial beneficial person types which may exist for initial beneficial persons and global custodian banks disparate systems for classifying security types may exist. In order to establish a consistent classification of security types that is in accordance with some embodiments of the present invention a security master type database model may be used to identify security types consistently in accordance with some aspects of the present invention.

A security master type database model may include but is not restricted to a field . for a security type code representing some embodiments of the present invention a field . for a security type code name a field . for a security type code description and a field . for additional information with respect to a security type.

If a third party organization uses its own security identification system a third party organization security identifier database model may be used to store such information. This database model may include a field . for a third party organization s security identifier and a field . for a security identifier which may be defined in a security master identifier database model . A foreign key relationship FK may be used to link a third party organization s security identifier to other security identification systems as stored in a security master identifier database model.

A third party organization security identifier database model may also include a field . to identify the third party organization providing a security a field . for a security s country of origin and a field . to note a security type code as defined by a third party organization providing the data record. FK may serve as a foreign key relationship linking the security type code from a third party organization security identifier database model to the details of that type code as stored in a third party organization security type database model .

A third party organization security identifier database model may provide a field . for the name of a security a field . for a description of the security a field . to determine the language of a data record and a field . for any additional information pertaining to a third party organization s security identifier.

If a third party organization uses different security type codes than those referenced by some embodiments of the present invention a third party organization security type database model may be used to store a third party organization s security type information. This database model may include a field . for a third party organization s security type code and a field . to identify the third party organization that may have provided a security type. In order to link a security type code referenced by some embodiments of the present invention and a third party organization s specific security type code a field . may be provided in a third party organization security type database model. FK may serve as a foreign key relationship linking a security master type database model with a third party organization security type database model.

A third party organization security type database model may also include a field . for the name of a third party organization security type a field . for a description of a third party organization s security type a field . to identify the language of a data record and a field . for additional security type code information.

As mentioned earlier ROSESeries ABS may receive investment rating qualifications from step when securities undergo ABS structuring by an SPV step . An investment rating also commonly referred to as an investment grade may reflect the level of risk associated with ABS. Investment ratings may be provided by credit rating agencies such as but not limited to Standard and Poor s Moody s A.M. Best s and Fitch Ratings. An SPV may select one or multiple credit rating agencies to supply investment ratings for a particular ABS deal structure. An investment rating database model may store short term and long term credit ratings. Examples of short term credit ratings include but are not limited to Fitch Ratings F1 F1 F2 and F3 and A.M. Best s AMB 1 AMB 1 AMB 2 and AMB 3 . Examples of long term credit ratings may include but are not limited to Standard Poor s AAA AA A and B ratings and Moody s Aaa Aa1 A1 and Baa1 ratings.

In addition to investment ratings supplied by various credit rating agencies a statistical analysis of initial beneficial persons historical tax reclaim asset activity performed in accordance with some embodiments of the present invention and illustrated in may serve as another investment rating system. All investment rating information may be stored in an investment rating database model.

An investment rating database model may include a field . for a unique investment rating code e.g. AAA F1 AMB 1 etc. a field . for the name of a rating a field . for a description of the rating a field . to identify a rating s data source provider a field . to distinguish short term and long term ratings and a field . to distinguish investment and non investment ratings. A field . may also be provided in an investment rating database model to identify a data source provider s rating order for investment grades. Such rating orders may include but are not limited to strongest outstanding satisfactory adequate and junk .

Fields . . may be provided to understand the risk assignment for a particular investment rating based reclaim parameters such as but not limited to fund number security identifier and projected reclaim receipt date. An investment rating data source provider may determine which reclaim parameters to apply for a particular investment rating. An investment rating database model may be used to store reclaim parameters as implicit or explicit values. For example an investment rating database model may include a field that identifies investment ratings based on reclaim countries of origin. One data source provider of investment rating data may assign a particular investment rating to all reclaims from European Union member states. Another data source provider may assign different investment ratings to specific member states of the European Union i.e. Belgium Germany Italy etc. . A reclaim county of origin parameter field within an investment rating database model may store such implicit and explicit country information.

For reclaim parameters an investment rating database model may include a field . for a reclaim country of origin parameter a field . for an initial beneficial person country of residence parameter a field . for an initial beneficial person identifier parameter a field . for a global custodian bank identifier parameter and a field . for a fund number parameter. Additional fields for an investment rating database model may include a field . for an initial beneficial person type code parameter a field . for a security identifier type code parameter a field . for a security identifier parameter a field . for a reclaim filing date parameter formula a field . for a statute of limitations date parameter formula a field . for a projected reclaim receipt date parameter formula and a field . for a third party organization s projected reclaim receipt date parameter formula.

An investment rating database model may also include a field . to identify the language of a data record and a field . to represent additional information related to investment ratings in accordance with some embodiments.

An exemplary country database model is a master list of country information e.g. names currency codes etc. . The source for country code information may include but is not limited to standardization groups such as the International Organization for Standardization ISO or third party market data vendors.

A country database model may include a field . for a country code which is a unique identifier for a country a field . for the full name of a country and a field . for a country description. A country database model may also include a field . for a unique currency code identifier a field . for the full name of a currency that may be used within a select country and a field . for a currency code description. In addition a country database model may include a language identifier field . to denote the official language of a country. FK may represent a foreign key relationship linking a language identifier field from a country database model to defined language identifiers within a language database model . A field . may be incorporated into a country database model to represent the potential use of additional information in conjunction with some embodiments.

Information pertaining to a particular language may be stored in a language database model . This database model may include a field . for a unique language identifier a field . for the official name of a language and a field . for the description of a language. A field . may be provided to indicate if some embodiments of the present invention provide translation to and from a particular language as part of multilingual processing as illustrated in and . Any additional information regarding a language may be stored in a field ..

Some embodiments of the present invention may support additional type code values which may not be stored in dedicated database models such as initial beneficial person type and third party organization security type. A type code database model may be provided to store extraneous type codes that are referred across technology systems in accordance with some aspects of the present invention.

A type code database model may include a field . for a type code and a field . for the name of a type code category to group related type codes under a particular category. A type code database model may also include a field . for a type code order just in case a group of related type codes may have a particular ranking order. A type code database model may provide a field . may store the identifier of a type code data source provider a field . for the full name of a type code a field . for the description of a type code and a field . for additional information related to a type code.

Some embodiments track filing statuses of tax reclaim assets in order to avoid securitization of ineligible tax reclaims. For example if a foreign tax authority has already sent a reclaim payment to a global custodian bank for a tax reclaim asset a paid asset may not be a candidate for securitization in accordance with some embodiments. A reclaim filing status master database model may be used to store the details for reclaim filing statuses which are recognized by some embodiments. Examples of reclaim filing statuses are but are not limited to filed to acknowledge tax reclaim forms which were submitted to a foreign tax authority rejected for tax reclaims which were returned by a foreign tax authority due to an error and paid to acknowledge tax reclaim payments sent by a foreign tax authority.

A reclaim filing status master database model may include a field . for a reclaim filing status a field . to acknowledge an applicable sequential order of filing statuses a field . for the full name of a filing status and a field . for a description of a status. A reclaim filing status master database model may also include a field . for any additional filing status information.

As discussed above a reclaim filing status master database model may be used to track reclaim filing statuses in accordance with some embodiments. Other organizations including but not limited to an initial beneficial person or global custodian bank may have their own system to track reclaim filings. A third party organization reclaim filing status database model may be used to store various filing status defined by other organizations.

Such a database model may include a field . for a reclaim filing status reference and a field . to associate a third party organization s reclaim filing status to a status which is recognized by some embodiments of the present invention within a reclaim filing status master database model. A foreign key relationship FK may used to link master and third party organization reclaim filing status database models.

A third party organization reclaim filing status database model may also include a field . for a sequential ordering of a third party organization s filing statuses a field . for the name of a filing status a field . for the description of a status a field . to identify the language of a filing status data record and a field . for any additional filing status information.

In addition to tracking filing statuses of tax reclaim assets some embodiments of the present invention may track securitization statuses of eligible assets. A reclaim securitization status database model may serve as a reference for various pooling and securitization statuses i.e. tentative portfolio stamp tranche and secure tranche which may be used by some embodiments.

A reclaim securitization status database model may include a field . for a securitization status code a field . for the sequential ordering of securitization statuses a field . for a status full name a field . for the description of a status and a field . for any additional information pertaining to reclaim securitization statuses.

Various technology solutions connected to some embodiments of the present invention may utilize market rate information for certain calculations. For example as illustrated earlier in step market rate information may be used to calculate preliminary discounted values for tax reclaim assets during a stamp tranche pooling phase. A market rate database model may be used by some embodiments of the present invention to store market data from various information vendors in any local markets currencies cross currencies and the base market s currency. This market data may include but is not limited to LIBOR rates US Treasury rates and foreign exchange rates.

A market rate database model may include a field . for a market rate type code to identify distinct market rate systems i.e. libor rates US Treasury rates etc. a field . for the effective date of a rate and a field . for the numerical value of a rate. A market rate database model may also include a field . for any additional rate information associated with some embodiments.

To pool and securitize tax reclaim assets some embodiments of the present invention may need to know which reclaim markets to consider. Such eligible reclaim markets of operation may be decided based on factors including but not restricted to their volume of cross border activity established tax reclamation procedures and known double taxation treaties. Identifying eligible reclaim markets of operation may allow some embodiments of the present invention to assign risk profiles to tax reclaim assets based on reclaim country information. A markets of operation master database model may be used to identify eligible reclaim countries according to some aspects of the present invention.

A markets of operation master database model may include a field . for a reclaim market of operation fields . and . to identify during which start and end dates tax reclaims may be securitized for a particular reclaim market respectively and a field . for any additional information.

While some embodiments of the present invention cover all local markets and the base market for pooling securitizing and trading global dividend and interest tax reclaim assets each initial beneficial person may be assigned particular markets of operation based on a contractual agreement between an initial beneficial person and an SPV. For example initial beneficial person A may submit tax reclaim assets from Germany and Switzerland while initial beneficial person B may only submit tax reclaim assets from Great Britain Netherlands and Spain for pooling securitizing and trading in accordance with some embodiments of the present invention. An initial beneficial person markets of operation database model is an illustrative example of how assigned markets of operation per initial beneficial person may be stored for referential purposes. This information may be used to make sure assets from particular markets are securitized only if an initial beneficial person has a signed contractual agreement with an SPV to sell tax reclaim assets from particular markets.

An initial beneficial person markets of operation database model may include a field . to identify an initial beneficial person associated with a particular reclaim market. FK may serve as a foreign key relationship linking initial beneficial person identifiers in two database models initial beneficial person markets of operation and initial beneficial person .

An initial beneficial person markets of operation database model may also include a field . for a market of operation country code which represents a reclaim market eligible for securitization. This field may be linked to a country stored in a markets of operation master database model through a foreign key relationship FK.

An initial beneficial person markets of operation database model may track markets of operations for multiple initial beneficial persons. Each initial beneficial person may contractually sell tax reclaims from particular markets during specified periods of time. For example initial beneficial person A may sell German tax reclaims Jul. 2 2008 Jul. 2 2009 while initial beneficial person B may have a different agreement to sell German tax reclaims Aug. 4 2008 Dec. 31 2011. Fields . and . may track the start and end dates of an initial beneficial person s contractual period to sell tax reclaims for a market respectively.

An initial beneficial person markets of operation database model may also include a field . for any additional information pertaining to markets of operation for initial beneficial persons as it relates to some embodiments.

An exemplary statute of limitations database model may be used by some embodiments of the present invention to identify countries with double taxation treaties and the applicable statute of limitations. A statute of limitations database model may include but is not limited to a field . for a reclaim country and a field . for an initial beneficial person country of residence. Fields . and . may represent two countries that have a negotiated double taxation treaty with each other.

A statue of limitations database model may also include a field . for a statute of limitations date formula. The value within this field may depend on the nature of a double taxation treaty s statute of limitations. For example a double taxation treaty may cite an explicit statute of limitations date for which tax reclaims must be filed by if so the statute of limitations data formula field may store an explicit date. Another double taxation treaty may cite an implicit statute of limitations date for example all tax reclaims must be filed within years from the assets dividend and interest payment dates. Field . may be dynamic enough to account for all potential statute of limitations entries depending on the terms and conditions of a double taxation treaty.

A statue of initiations database model may also include a field . for additional information pertaining to a statue of limitations in accordance with some embodiments for practicing aspects of the present invention.

Tax reclaim treaty rate agreements between foreign governments may be defined on a security fund number or country level. Tax reclaim treaty rates may be stored within various tax reclaim treaty rate database models of some embodiments in order to perform certain checks including but not limited to a verification of calculated tax reclaim amounts as noted in step .

As discussed in more detail below there may be three illustrative examples for tax reclaim treaty rate database models that may be utilized by some embodiments this includes for a tax reclaim treaty security rate database model for a tax reclaim treaty fund number rate database model and a tax reclaim treaty country rate database model. When determining the applicable tax reclaim treaty rate for a particular tax reclaim asset exemplary tax reclaim treaty rate database models are queried to determine if a tax reclaim treaty rate for an asset is established on a security fund number or by default on a country level sequentially.

A tax reclaim treaty security rate database model may include a field . for a tax reclaim treaty effective date a field . for a tax withholding rate a field . for a tax treaty rate a field . for a tax credit rate a field . for a tax reclaim rate and a field . for any additional information which may be related to a tax reclaim treaty security rate database model.

If a tax reclaim treaty rate is not defined on a security level some embodiments may query a tax reclaim treaty fund number rate database model . This database model may include a field . for an initial beneficial person s fund number that has a tax reclaim treaty rate defined on a fund level. FK may be used as a foreign key relationship to link fund numbers listed in a tax reclaim treaty fund number rate database model to fund details in a fund number database model .

A tax reclaim treaty fund number rate database model may also include a field . for a security type codes if a fund number tax reclaim treaty rate may apply to particular security types which are held by a fund a field . for a reclaim country of origin and a field . for an initial beneficial person s country of residence. In addition a field . may be included for a treaty effective date a field . for a tax withholding rate a field . for a tax treaty rate a field . for a tax credit rate a field . for a tax reclaim rate and a field . for any additional information pertaining to fund number tax reclaim treaty rates.

By default if a tax reclaim treaty rate is not defined on a security or fund level a treaty rate from a country level may be applied. A tax reclaim treaty country rate database model may include but is not limited to a field . for an initial beneficial person type code a field . for a security type code a field . for a reclaim country of origin a field . for an initial beneficial person s country of residence and a field . for a tax reclaim treaty effective date. A tax reclaim treaty country rate database model may also provide a field . for a tax withholding rate a field . for a tax treaty rate a field . for a tax credit rate and a field . for a tax reclaim rate. In addition a field . may be provided for supplementary information pertaining to a country tax reclaim treaty rate.

As noted in a tentative portfolio may be created after screening an initial beneficial person s aggregate portfolio of tax reclaim assets. A tentative portfolio database model may be used to track the creation of tentative portfolios.

A tentative portfolio database mode may include a field . for the unique identifier of a tentative portfolio a field . for the date a tentative portfolio was created a field . for the name of a tentative portfolio a field . for the description of a tentative portfolio and a field . for any additional information pertaining to a tentative portfolio.

A tranche definition database model may include a field . for a unique identifier a field . to distinguish stamp and secure tranches a field . for a stamp secure tranche definition name a field . for the description of a definition and a field . for a contract identifier. FK is a foreign key relationship which may be used to link a contract identifier in a tranche definition database model with a contract s details in a contractual definition database model .

Fields . . are examples of parameters that may be configured to pool tax reclaim assets into a stamp or secure tranche as noted in steps respectively. Such fields may include but are not limited to a field . for a tranche start date a field . for a tranche end date a field . for a reclaim county of origin parameter a field . for an initial beneficial person country of residence parameter a field . to identify initial beneficial person identifiers associated with a tranche and a field . to identify global custodian bank identifiers associated with a tranche. A tranche definition database model may also include a field . for a fund number parameter a field . for an initial beneficial person type code parameter a field . for a security identifier type code parameter and a field . for a security identifier parameter.

For date related parameters a tranche definition database model may be configured to recognize parameter formulas that allow explicit for example a specific date and implicit for example a date range date values. Such parameter formulas include a field . for a reclaim filing date parameter formula a field . for a statute of limitations parameter formula a field . for a projected receipt date parameter formula according to some aspects of the present invention a field . for a third party organization s projected reclaim receipt date parameter formula and a field . for additional information pertaining to a tranche definition in accordance with some embodiments.

While a tranche definition database model may be used to store the parameters associated with stamp and secure tranche pooling a tranche database model may be used to record created stamp and secure tranches. Such a database model may include a field . to identify a unique tranche event and a field . to identify the tranche definition associated with a created tranche. FK may be used as a foreign key relationship to link a tranche event to its detailed definition within a tranche definition database model.

A tranche database model may also include a field . noting the creation date of a tranche a field . for the name of a tranche a field . for the description of a created tranche and a field . for additional information pertaining to a tranche.

When tax reclaim assets are pooled for ABS structuring as noted in step certain ABS structuring requirements may be needed before creating ROSESeries ABS. Such requirements may include but are not limited to a country of issuance for a new security credit rating agency responsible for assigning an investment rating to a new security and an underwriter for a new security. An exemplary ABS definition database model may be used to store ABS structuring requirements.

An ABS definition database model may include a field . for the unique security identifier of ROSESeries ABS. This security identifier may be of any security identification system including but not limited to ISIN SEDOL or CUSIP. FK may be used as a foreign key relationship to link an ABS security identifier to the details of that security in a security master identifier database model . An ABS definition database model may also include a field . for the full name of ROSESeries ABS a field . for a ROSESeries ABS description and a field . for a securitization date.

In order to identify the start and end dates for which a security may be issued a field . may be included in an ABS definition database model to identify an issue start date and a field . to identify an issue end date. Additional fields for an ABS definition database model include a field . for the country where an ABS is issued from a field . for an associated currency of issue and a field . for an investment rating assigned to ROSESeries ABS. FK may be used as a foreign key relationship to obtain the details for an investment rating for ROSESeries ABS in an investment rating database model .

An ABS definition database model may also include a field . for a class series value if ABS are revolving or non revolving and a field . for a contract identifier. FK may be used to link a contract identifier for an ABS definition to an entry in a contractual definition database model . Additional fields for an ABS definition database model may include a field . for an ABS par value a field . for an issue amount a field . for a maturity date and a field . for a coupon rate.

In addition an ABS definition database model may include a field to store an ABS payment basis e.g. 30 360 actual 360 actual actual etc. and associated payment frequency e.g. quarterly semiannually annually etc. . Field . may be used to store an ABS payment basis and frequency together as one field in order to see an assigned payment option for a security. An ABS definition database model may also provide a field . for a security s market amortization and accretion i.e. straight line scientific etc. .

To identify any third party organizations involved in structuring and purchasing ROSESeries ABS fields . . may be used. Third party organization identifiers listed in these fields may correspond to unique identifiers in a third party organization database model . In turn an ABS definition database model may include a field . for an ABS buyer identifier a field . for an SPV originator identifier a field . for a rating agency identifier a field . for an underwriter identifier a field . for a liquidity provider identifier and a field . for a legal counsel identifier. An ABS definition database model may provide a field . for a trustee identifier a field . for a global custodian bank identifier a field . for a servicer identifier a field . for an accountant identifier and a field . for a settlement location identifier. Additional fields for an ABS definition database model may include . for a blackout period . for a basis and . for any additional information provided in an ABS definition database model in accordance with some embodiments.

An ABS issuance database model may be used to track details and statuses of issued ROSESeries ABS. Such details include but are not limited to an issued security s maturity date par value and identified buyer. Although an ABS issuance database model make look similar to an ABS definition database model the two database models may store different information related to structured ABS. An ABS definition may be used to determine how to turn a secure tranche s tax reclaim assets into ROSESeries ABS. An ABS definition may include definition parameter such as but not limited to which country to issue ROSESeries ABS what investment rating to assign ROSESeries ABS and which third party organization may be assigned the role of trustee for an ABS structuring process. An ABS issuance database model on the other hand may store the actual ABS definition parameters that were configured for issued ROSESeries ABS. As a result one entry in an ABS definition database model may serve as a reference for the creation of multiple issued ROSESeries ABS.

An ABS issuance database model may include a field . for a unique ABS issuance identifier and a field . for an ABS security identifier. FK may be used as a foreign key relationship to link an issued ABS to its definition as noted in an ABS definition database model. An ABS issuance database model may also include a field . to identify a secure tranche that pooled tax reclaim assets into an ABS issuance. A foreign key relationship FK may be used to link an issued ABS to the details of a secure tranche within a tranche database model .

An ABS issuance database model may also include a field . for an ABS security name a field . for an ABS security description a field . for an issue date a field . for a country of issuance a field . for a currency of issuance and a field . to identify a contract which may be used for an ABS issuance. An ABS issuance database model may also provide a field . for a security s par value a field . for an issue amount a field . for a maturity date and a field . for a coupon rate.

Fields . . may be used to identify third party organizations related to an ABS issuance. Details pertaining to third party organizations may exist in a third party organization database model . Fields in an ABS issuance database model may include an ABS buyer identifier . SPV originator identifier . rating agency identifier . underwriter identifier . liquidity provider identifier . and legal counsel identifier . . Additional third party organization fields may include a trustee identifier . global custodian bank identifier . servicer identifier . accountant identifier . and settlement location identifier . . A field . may be provided in an ABS issuance database model for additional ABS information.

An ABS receipt payment database model may provide a field . to identify an issued ABS with its receipt or payment. FK may be used as a foreign key relationship to link an ABS receipt payment data record to an issued ABS within an ABS issuance database model . An ABS receipt payment database model may also include a field . for an ABS security identifier a field . for an ABS calculation type code in order to distinguish receipt and payment data records a field . for a receipt payment date a field . for a receipt payment amount and a field . for a currency associated with an ABS amount. In addition a field . may be provided for supplementary information related to an ABS receipt payment database model.

As mentioned above in a reconciliation definition may provide rules for how a reconciliation takes place within a cash and position management technology solution. By way of example and not limitation these rules may include accounting and custody transaction types matching criteria and threshold settings. A reconciliation may involve any local markets currencies cross currencies and the base market s currency. A reconciliation definition database model may be used to store the attributes of a reconciliation definition.

A reconciliation definition database model may include a field . for a reconciliation definition s unique identifier a field . for the full name of a definition a field . for the description of a definition and a field . to distinguish cash and position reconciliations.

A reconciliation definition database model may also include fields . and . to identify which organizations serve as accounting and custody data providers respectively. As noted in previous text some embodiments of the present invention may serve as an accounting and or custody data provider depending on the purpose of a reconciliation. Additional fields for a reconciliation definition database model may include a reconciliation currency . an accounting transaction currency . and a custody transaction currency . .

A reconciliation definition database model may provide a field . for a reconciliation threshold once an accounting and custody transaction are matched. In some reconciliation scenarios a numerical exception between two transactions may be as minute as a one US penny. Such exceptions may represent sustainable compliance and may not require an investigation. To identify these situations a reconciliation threshold may be set to a maximum acceptable exception between accounting and custody transactions.

Additional fields in a reconciliation definition database model may include a reconciliation language identifier . to denote which language to report reconciliation exception results and an additional information field . .

A reconciliation database model may be used to store details regarding completed cash and position reconciliations. This database model may include a field . for a unique reconciliation identifier and a field . for a reconciliation definition identifier. A foreign key relationship FK may be used to link multiple reconciliation events individually identified through a reconciliation unique identifier field to a particular reconciliation definition within a reconciliation definition database model . A reconciliation database model may also include a field . to a reconciliation completion date and a field . for any additional information pertaining to a reconciliation.

A reconciliation transaction database model may be used to store accounting and custody transactions once data records have been received from various accounting and custody data sources. These transactions may be used to reconcile cash and position activities with transactions that already exist in numerous database models according to some embodiments of the present invention. Information from third party organizations or data already stored in various database models of some embodiments may serve as accounting or custody sources for a particular reconciliation.

A reconciliation transaction database model may include but is not limited to a field . for the unique identifier of a transaction and a field . for a reconciliation identifier to identify associative data in an entry within a reconciliation database model . FK may be used to establish a link between field . and its details within a reconciliation database model.

A reconciliation transaction database model may also include a field . for the full name of a transaction a field . for the description of a transaction and a field . to denote a third party organization serving as a data source for a reconciliation transaction. This field may also be used to store an initial beneficial person identifier as detailed in if an initial beneficial person supplies reconciliatory transactions as a data source provider.

A reconciliation transaction database model may provide a field . for a transaction date a field . to store an cash or position transactional value a field . to identify the language of a transaction and a field . for any additional information that may be required in accordance with some embodiments for a reconciliation transaction database model.

The outcome of reconciliations from may be stored in a reconciliation exception database model for further investigation in order to explain exceptions. This database model may include but is not limited to a field . for the unique identifier of a reconciliation exception and a field . to identify a reconciliation event. A foreign key relationship FK may be used to link exception data records to their respective reconciliation event within a reconciliation database model .

A reconciliation exception database model may also include a field . for an exception value and fields . and . identifying related accounting and custody unique identifiers respectively which may be matched to identify an exception. These unique identifiers may correspond to transaction identifiers within a reconciliation transaction database model or other database models according to some aspects of the present invention.

Once reconciliation exceptions are made available for review comments related to an investigation of exceptions may be stored in a field . within a reconciliation exception database model. A field . may also be provided in a reconciliation exception database model to store additional information related to reconciliation exceptions.

As mentioned earlier a report definition may be utilized by a reporting technology solution illustrated in to identify report attributes. These attributes may be stored in a report definition database model . A report definition database model may include but is not limited to a field . for a unique report definition identifier a field . for the full name of a report a field . for a report description and a field . for a reporting currency.

A report definition database model may also include a field . to identify which language a report reflects and a field . for additional information regarding a report definition.

Aggregated report calculations and transactions may be stored in a report database model . A report database model may be used to take a snapshot at a specific point in time for a report s underlying transactions. While changes are consistently being made to a transaction s primary database model a report database model may record the state of a transaction at a particular time. This database model may utilize various relational database management systems designed for data warehousing. Such systems may include but are not limited to IBM DB2 Data Warehouse Microsoft SQL Server 2005 for data warehousing and Oracle 11g Warehouse Builder in accordance with some aspects of the present invention.

A report database model may include a field . for a unique report identifier and a field . to identify a report definition associated with a created report.

A foreign key relationship FK may be used to link a created report to a report s definition within a report definition database model .

A report database model may also include a field . for a report s creation. Fields . and . may identify attributes and numerical values associated with a report s structure respectively. A report rule identifier field . may be included in a report database model to note names of report attributes such as but not limited to assets liabilities income and expenses for an exemplary trial balance report. A foreign key relationship FK may be used to link a rule identifier from a report database model to a rule s details within a rule database model . A field . may be used to store numeric transactional values. In addition a report database model may include a field . for supplementary information related to a generated report.

A swap deal definition database model may be used to store key terms and conditions of interest rate swap deals. These terms and conditions may include but are not limited to identities of fixed and variable leg owners a notional principal amount and an interest rate type. Multiple swap deals may be managed at the same time by an interest rate swap technology solution illustrated in and in accordance with some embodiments.

A swap deal definition database model may provide a field . to identify a unique swap deal definition a field . for the full name of a definition a field . for a definition s description and a field . for a security identifier. A foreign key relationship FK may be used to link a swap deal definition to a security s details within a security master identifier database model . A security identifier field within a swap deal definition database model may represent the underlying security for a swap deal.

A swap deal definition database model may also provide a field . for a swap dealer s unique identifier and a field . for a swap contract identifier. FK may serve as a foreign key relationship linking a swap deal definition to its contract within a contractual definition database model .

A swap deal definition database model may include a field . to store the notional principal amount of a swap deal definition which may equate to a negotiated dollar amount on which exchanged interest rate payments are based on. A field . may also be provided to identify the interest rate type used for a swap deal definition for example libor or US Treasury. A field . may be included in a swap deal definition database model to identify a fixed interest leg owner and a field . may be included for a fixed interest rate amount. For the variable leg of a swap deal a swap deal definition database model may include a field . to identify a variable interest leg owner and a field . for a variable interest rate amount. To identify payment interval dates a field . may be provided to indicate the swap payment interval basis and frequency for a net payment decision. If additional information may be required for a swap deal definition database model a field . may be provided.

A swap deal database model may be used to record when swap deals start and end in accordance with some embodiments of the present invention. While a swap deal definition database model may be used to store the details of a swap deal multiple swap deals may occur based on a single swap deal definition.

A swap deal database model may include a field . for a unique swap deal identifier and a field . for an associated swap deal definition identifier. A foreign key relationship FK may be used to link a swap deal to its definition details in a swap deal definition database model. A swap deal database model may also include a field . to denote the start date of a swap a field . for a swap deal end date and a field . for any additional swap deal information.

Net payment decisions from an interest rate swap technology solution as illustrated in and may be stored in a swap deal receipt payment database model . A swap deal receipt payment database model may include but is not limited to a field . for a unique identifier of a swap receipt payment event and a field . to identify which swap deal is associated with a swap receipt payment event. A foreign key relationship FK may be used to link a receipt payment event to a swap deal within a swap deal database model .

A swap deal receipt payment database model may also include a field . to indicate if a receipt payment event correlates to a receipt payment interval. A swap deal definition may be configured to calculate a swap net receipt payment decision for any date time including but not limited to intraday daily and monthly. A receipt payment interval indicator may be used to determine which swap net receipt payment decision requires a fixed or variable interest leg owner to make a payment to the other party.

As noted in earlier text some embodiments of the present invention may serve as a fixed or variable interest leg owner for a swap deal. Fields . . may be used to track calculated net receipt payment values such as but not limited to a net receipt payment amount . a net receipt payment currency . a net receipt payment date . and an accrued interest amount . . If a swap dealer is to make a payment fields . . may be used to track the details of collected values which represent receipts for some embodiments of the present invention. These fields may include but are not limited to a collected amount . a collected currency . and a collected date . . A field . may be included in a swap deal receipt payment database model in case additional information is required in accordance with some embodiments.

A VaR definition database model may be used to store attributes of a VaR definition used in some embodiments of the present invention. Multiple VaR definitions may occur at the same time in accordance with some embodiments of the present invention. A VaR definition database model may provide a field . for a definition s unique identifier a field . for the full name of a definition a field . for the description of a VaR definition and a field . for a contract identifier. A foreign key relationship FK may be used to link a VaR definition to the details of a VaR contract which may exist in a contractual definition database model .

A VaR definition database model may also include a field . for an interest rate type a field . for a portfolio asset description and a field . for a primary currency identifier. VaR calculations may be performed using different currencies in order to identify asset exposure per currency. A primary currency field within a VaR definition database model may identify which currency to use for VaR calculations. Some embodiments of the present invention allow VaR calculations to be performed in all local markets currencies cross currencies and in the base market s currency. A VaR calculation database model may be used to store VaR calculations based on different currencies.

A field . may be included in a VaR definition database model for any additional information which may be required for some embodiments.

A VaR database model may be used to store running totals of VaR events based on instructions from a VaR definition database model . A VaR database model may provide a field . for a unique VaR identifier and a field . to identify a VaR definition associated with a VaR event. A foreign key FK may be used to link a VaR entry to its VaR definition details within a VaR definition database model.

A VaR database model may also provide a field . for a VaR start date a field . for a VaR end date a field . for a deliver amount a field . for a deliver currency a field . for a receive amount and a field . for a receive currency.

To record running historical values a VaR database model may include a field . for a historical range indicator to identify which exemplary historical range i.e. full 30 day 5 day intra day or system determined etc. may be used for subsequent VaR calculations. A field . may be provided in a VaR database model to record the number of historical calculated days representing the number of days within a full historical average for a VaR event. A field . may also be provided for the number of historical calculations. With multiple intraday VaR calculations an exemplary full historical average is based on the total number of historical calculations including intraday calculations. Field . may store a mark to market total sum and a field . may be provided for a variance sum. In addition a field . may be included in a VaR database model for any additional information which may be required for some embodiments.

A VaR calculation database model may be used to store VaR calculations from an exemplary VaR process as illustrated in and . This database model may include a field . for a unique VaR calculation identifier. A single VaR definition may have multiple records in a VaR calculation database model based on an applied historical range. A field . may be provided to identify a VaR entry behind multiple calculations. FK is a foreign key relationship which may link VaR calculations to their respective VaR event within a VaR database model . A VaR calculation database model may also provide a field . to identify VaR calculations for various currencies a field . for a calculated VaR amount at 95 confidence level a field . for a calculated target VaR amount at 95 confidence level a field . for a calculated VaR amount at 99 confidence level and a field . for a calculated target VaR amount at 99 confidence level.

A VaR calculation database model may consist of additional fields for calculations including but not limited to a field . for a mark to market value a field . for an applied historical range a field . for a historical average amount a field . for a variance value a field . for a standard deviation value and a field . for a coefficient of variation value.

A VaR calculation database model may also consist of four fields to store normal distribution values. These fields may include a field . for a normal distribution minus 2 standard deviation of the mean value a field . for a normal distribution plus 2 standard deviation a field . for a normal distribution minus 3 standard deviation of the mean value and a field . for a normal distribution plus 3 standard deviation. A field . may also be provided for additional VaR calculation information.

A VaRbitrage definition database model may also include a field . for the full name of a definition a field . for the description of a definition and a field . to identify a contract associated with a VaRbitrage definition. A foreign key FK may be used to link a VaRbitrage definition to its contract details within a contractual definition database model .

A VaRbitrage definition database model may also provide a field . to indicate whether a VaRbitrage definition may trigger the automatic execution of a trade decision. A foreign key relationship FK may be used to reference a definition s trade execution details within a trade execution definition database model . A field . may be provided in a VaRbitrage definition database model for any additional information that may be required in accordance with some embodiments.

A VaRbitrage database model may be used to track VaRbitrage events in accordance with some aspects of the present invention. VaRbitrage events may correspond to instances of a VaRbitrage definition which were executed in order to identify risk free arbitrage opportunities.

A VaRbitrage database model may include a field . to identify a unique VaRbitrage event and a field . to identify a VaRbitrage definition associated with a VaRbitrage event. FK may serve as an exemplary foreign key relationship linking a VaRbitrage event to its VaRbitrage definition within a VaRbitrage definition database model . Additional fields for a VaRbitrage database model may include a VaRbitrage start date . VaRbitrage end date . and supplementary VaRbitrage information . .

Computed VaRbitrage results and trading decisions from a VaRbitrage calculation process as illustrated in and may be stored in an exemplary VaRbitrage calculation database model . This calculation database model may include a field . that uniquely identifies a calculation entry and a field . for an associated VaRbitrage identifier for the calculation. A foreign key relationship FK may be used to link a VaRbitrage calculation to its detailed VaRbitrage entry in a VaRbitrage database model .

A VaRbitrage calculation database model may also include a field . for a calculated interest rate difference between deliver and receive currencies from step a field . for a calculated forward spot rate difference from step and a field . for additional information that may be included in a VaRbitrage calculation database model.

A trade execution definition database model may also include a field . for the identifier of a trade dealer and a field . for a trade execution type. This latter field may indicate if trades associated with a trade definition may be executed real time through a trade dealer s station system or if trades may be executed manually. A field . may also be provided for any additional information pertaining to a trade execution definition.

A trade execution database model may contain trades that have been executed or are pending automatic or manual execution. This database model may track statuses of all trades that are in accordance with some embodiments of the present invention. A trade execution database model may include but is not limited to a field . for the unique identifier for a trade and a field . for a trade execution definition identifier. FK may be used to link a trade execution entry to its trade execution definition within a trade execution database model .

A trade execution database model may provide a field . for a trade execution date and a field . for a trade execution status. Trade execution status types may include but are not restricted to pending for trades that have yet to be executed officially and executed for trades that have been officially executed with a trade dealer. Additional fields for a trade execution database model include a trade execution value . which may note a trade execution s details a field to report trade execution fees . and a field for additional information . pertaining trade execution.

A pricing spread database model may be used to store pricing spread calculations on purchase and sale agreements as noted step . Pricing spread calculations are in correspondence to a Pricing Model in accordance with some aspects of the present invention.

A pricing spread database model may include a field . to identify a unique pricing spread calculation a field . to store a pricing spread calculation date and a field . to identify a contractual definition associated with a pricing spread calculation. FK may serve as an exemplary foreign key relationship linking a pricing spread calculation to its purchase and sale agreement as stored in a contractual definition database model . A field . may be provided in a pricing spread database model to identify a unique ABS issuance associated with a pricing spread calculation. FK may serve as an exemplary foreign key relationship linking a pricing spread calculation to its ABS issuance as stored in an ABS issuance database model .

A pricing spread database model may also provide a field . for an established floor value a field . for an established cap value a field . for a ROSES discounted rate a field . for a present value amount and a field . for a calculated pricing spread amount. A field . may also be provided for any additional information pertaining to a pricing spread calculation.

A field . may be provided to store a current face amount after a blackout period a field . for a current face date to acknowledge the date when a current face amount was calculated and a field . for additional information pertaining to an interest liability event.

An interest liability calculation database model may be used to store individual interest liability calculations associated with a Pricing Model as illustrated in . Such a database model may include a field . to identify a unique interest liability calculation and a field . to link a calculation to its parent interest liability event. A foreign key relationship FK may be used to link an interest liability calculation to an interest liability event within an interest liability database model .

An interest liability calculation database model may also include a field . for a date when an interest liability calculation is performed a field . for a calculated amount and a field . for a flag indicating if an interest liability calculation is within a blackout period or not. If additional information may be required for an interest liability calculation database model a field . may be provided.

A global security holding database model may be used to store details of securities which have been identified as risk free arbitrage opportunities in support of generating deferred income from investment operations as illustrated in and .

For a global security holding database model a field . may be provided for a security identifier of a global security. A foreign key FK may be used to link a global security to additional security information stored in a security master identifier database model . A global security holding database model may also include a field . for an investment rating as linked to an investment rating database model through a foreign key relationship FK . A global security holding database model may also include a field . for a security currency a field . for a maturity date a field . for a coupon rate and a field . for a coupon frequency.

Additional fields within a global security holding database model may include but are not restricted to a field . for an interest accrual date a field . for a first coupon date a field . for a basis and a field . for a price. For risk free arbitrage opportunities a field . may be used to flag a global security as a risk free arbitrage opportunity as indicated in step . A field . may be used to store the date when a risk free arbitrage opportunity is identified. For an executed trade associated with a global security a field . may be used to link a global security to a unique trade execution identifier as illustrated in a trade execution database model . A foreign key relationship FK may be used to illustrate such a link between a global security database model and a trade execution database model. Field . may be used to store additional information in conjunction with a global security holding database model.

Computed investment income results from a deferred income from investment operations as illustrated in and may be stored in an exemplary investment income calculation database model . This calculation database model may include a field . that uniquely identifies a calculation entry and a field . for an associated global security identifier for the calculation. A foreign key relationship FK may be used to link an investment income calculation to its detailed security entry in a global security holding database model .

An investment income calculation database model may also include a field . for a calculated date a field . for a calculated investment income amount and a field . for additional information that may be included in an investment income calculation database model.

As explained above various steps in the methods used to implement the tax asset reclamation processes as described herein are computer implemented steps. It should be understood that computer systems for practicing such methods and steps thereof may include one or more computers intercommunicating with each other and with external data sources or repositories via any one or more suitable networks. The networks may include for example private networks the public Internet telephone networks wireless networks optical networks and so forth. Each computer may employ one or more processors along with one or more memory devices and suitable input output equipment to facilitate data exchange. Computers that might be employed include without limitation desktop computers notebook computers netbook computers personal digital assistants and smartphones mainframes and just about any other programmable computing device. Instructions for causing such computers to execute the described operations functions may be stored on any suitable computer readable media. Operations may be parceled out among multiple computers in any way that allows the collectively required processing to occur. While the examples shown have generally relied upon the use of relational databases their use is only shown for convenience it being understood that other types of databases may be suitable in a given embodiment.

It will now be apparent that there have been shown a number of example embodiments of methods and systems useful in processing various aspects of tax asset reclamation activities. No single embodiment need practice all such aspects. Embodiments unless otherwise apparent are not intended to be mutually exclusive and in general may be practiced in a variety of combinations that will be apparent to those skilled in the art. Accordingly any reference to an embodiment of the invention is inadvertent inasmuch as the invention is defined by the claims appended hereto and those claims may for example specify mutually exclusive features making it impossible logically for such an embodiment to practice all aspects and embodiments claimed. Likewise aspects of the invention however embodied generally may be practiced alone or in combination with other aspects.

Further it will be appreciated that the embodiments shown herein are intended to be exemplary only and from their disclosure other embodiments will occur to those skilled in the art. Accordingly the claims are not intended to be construed to cover only the embodiments expressly shown but also other embodiments within the spirit and scope of the claims and their equivalents.

