---

title: Position and elevation acquisition for orbit determination
abstract: A known ground location (KGL) satellite transceiver can include a position and elevation acquisition module configured to determine a time of flight (TOF) of a pseudonoise (PN) signal and a Doppler shift in a KGL signal for use in determining an orbit of a satellite. The PN signal can include a transmitted PN signal and a transponded PN signal. The KGL signal can include a transmitted KGL signal and a transponded KGL signal. The transmitted PN signal and the transmitted KGL signal can be transmitted sequentially on a first frequency carrier from the KGL satellite transceiver to the satellite. The transponded PN signal and the transponded KGL signal can be retransmitted back sequentially on a second frequency carrier from the satellite to the KGL satellite transceiver. The first frequency carrier and the second frequency carrier use a same frequency carrier or a different frequency carrier from each other.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09365303&OS=09365303&RS=09365303
owner: Raytheon Company
number: 09365303
owner_city: Waltham
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120503
---
Each satellite that orbits the Earth can have a distinct ephemeris. The ephemeris can include various information such as the position or orbit of the satellite on a number of dates and times in a regular sequence. Some satellites can use their orbit information for various applications. For example a satellite s orbit information can be used for altimeter and imaging system applications. A satellite in a global positioning system GPS can use its orbit information to provide location and time information anywhere on or near the Earth where a GPS receiver has an unobstructed line of sight to the GPS satellite.

Reference will now be made to the exemplary embodiments illustrated and specific language will be used herein to describe the same. It will nevertheless be understood that no limitation of the scope of the invention is thereby intended.

Before the present invention is disclosed and described it is to be understood that this invention is not limited to the particular structures process steps or materials disclosed herein but is extended to equivalents thereof as would be recognized by those ordinarily skilled in the relevant arts. It should also be understood that terminology employed herein is used for the purpose of describing particular examples only and is not intended to be limiting. The same reference numerals in different drawings represent the same element. Numbers provided in flow charts and processes are provided for clarity in illustrating steps and operations and do not necessarily indicate a particular order or sequence.

An initial overview of technology embodiments is provided below and then specific technology embodiments are described in further detail later. This initial summary is intended to aid readers in understanding the technology more quickly but is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the technology nor is it intended to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Satellites having the right on board equipment can determine their own orbit by communicating with known or fixed ground locations. The orbit of such satellites can be determined using signals received from the known locations and an on board processor including a local oscillator within the satellite. Such an orbit determination function may use expensive high power and or mass systems high grade oscillators that provide a high level of precision which high grade oscillators can be more costly than standard oscillators with less precision etc. for accurate and precise orbit determination.

Unlike these more expensive and high mass systems and unlike the associated methods employed for orbit determination using such satellites discussed herein is a low cost orbit determination capability for satellites such as altimeters and imaging systems. The devices systems and methods discussed herein utilize a ground based ranging and Doppler based technique in which the orbit determination function is carried out at the ground level or about the ground rather than at the satellite. As discussed herein moving the orbit determination function from the satellite to the known locations or fixed locations such as a known ground location KGL on or near the surface of the Earth can reduce the cost of deploying satellites by deploying satellites without high mass or expensive on board components while retaining accurate and precise orbit determination as obtained at the KGL.

In one exemplary embodiment two signals types can be transmitted by the KGL satellite transceiver one being a pseudonoise PN signal and the other being a KGL signal. The PN signal can be generated and transmitted on a specified or predetermined frequency carrier. The PN signal can include a pulsed PN coded signal. The PN signal can also be referred to as a psuedo random noise PRN signal. Information can be encoded in code of the PN signal. A code division multiple access CDMA code may be carried by the PN signal to determine range of the satellite to the KGL.

In one aspect the PN or PRN signal transmitted by the KGL satellite transceiver can have a similar format and or comprise similar information as a PN or PRN signal transmitted by a GPS satellite such as time of the PN or PRN signal s origin of transmission. In another aspect the PN or PRN signal transmitted by the KGL satellite transceiver can have a simplified format and or comprise similar but perhaps less information relative to a PN or PRN signal transmitted by a GPS satellite. For example unlike a PN or PRN signal transmitted by a GPS satellite the position of the KGL may not be included in the PN or PRN signal transmitted by the KGL satellite transceiver because the KGL position may be fixed and known at the KGL processing the return PN signal.

A KGL signal can be generated and transmitted on the same specified or predetermined frequency carrier as the PN signal. The KGL signal such as a tone or harmonic can be used to determine a Doppler shift which is described below. The tone can be a pulsed sinusoidal wave at specified frequency. The KGL signal can include other signals that can be used to determine the Doppler shift. In an example the KGL signal can include the PN signal so a PN can be measured for a range range rate and a Doppler trend. In an example the PN signal can be used to determine a Doppler shift in addition to a range and range rate

The PN signal and the KGL signal can be transmitted sequentially by the KGL satellite transceiver A on the same specified or predetermined frequency carrier which can be referred to as a first frequency carrier to the satellite as illustrated in . The signals from the KGL satellite transceiver can be transmitted in parallel or sequentially. At least one signal can be a PN signal from which range is computed. The Doppler shift can be measured from the PN signal. The KGL signal may also be used. KGL signal can be use to correct the range measurement of the first signal for delays due to the ionosphere. The delay can be unknown but can be estimated if the signals are measured in two different frequencies. Moreover the signals from the KGL transceiver can be alternated between the PN coded ranging signal and the KGL signal.

The KGL satellite transceiver can be located on or near the surface of the Earth. The PN signal can include a transmitted PN signal and a transponded PN signal. The KGL signal can include a transmitted KGL signal and a transponded KGL signal. A transmitted signal A from the KGL satellite transceiver A to the satellite can include multiple signal components such as the transmitted PN signal and the transmitted KGL signal. The KGL satellite transceiver can transmit a PN signals and a second KGL signal sequentially or in parallel . A satellite can receives delay and retransmit the signals. The KGL satellite transceiver computes range from the returned PN signal and Doppler from the carrier of the PN signal. Multiple range and Doppler measurements can be used to estimate ephemeris.

In an example pulse widths of the transmitted signal A and a repetition of the transmitted signal can be set to avoid the KGL satellite transceiver A transmitting and receiving at the same time. For example where the KGL satellite transceiver is transmitting signals to and receiving signals from a low Earth orbit LEO satellite the pulse width of the transmitted signal can be for example 1 millisecond msec on with 2 msecs off. Of course this is not meant to be limiting in any way. The pulse widths and repetition can allow for the time of flight TOF of the PN signal and the KGL signal from the KGL satellite transceiver to the satellite and back to the KGL satellite transceiver without interference or reduced interference from the KGL satellite transceiver or the satellite.

A satellite signal transceiver a satellite signal receiver or a receiver on board ROB the satellite can receive the transmitted PN signal component of the PN signal. A signal transceiver signal receiver or ROB the satellite can receive the transmitted KGL signal of the KGL signal. The satellite can delay the PN signal and the KGL signal and re broadcast or transpond the PN signal and the KGL signal back to the KGL satellite transceiver A on a second frequency carrier where the first frequency carrier and the second frequency carrier operate on a same common frequency carrier. The delay can be a specified delay known at the KGL which can be used in the TOF calculation of the range from the PN signal. A transponded signal A from the satellite to the KGL satellite transceiver can include the transponded PN signal and the transponded KGL signal. The transponded signal A can be transponded or transmitted from the satellite signal transceiver a satellite signal transmitter or the ROB the satellite. The PN signal and the KGL signal can be transponded sequentially by the satellite to the KGL satellite transceiver.

Referring back to the KGL satellite transceiver A can receive the transponded signal A including the transponded PN signal and the transponded KGL signal. The KGL satellite transceiver can further comprise or otherwise be associated with a position and elevation acquisition module see which can measure the returned signals e.g. the transponded PN signal and the transponded KGL signal and can estimate the orbit of the satellite . The PN signal can be decoded by the KGL satellite transceiver. From the decoded PN signal the roundtrip time of flight TOF of a PN signal can be measured and converted to a range.

The precision of the range can vary with chip rate. A higher chip rate can improve the precision of the range. In an example range can be measured to about 1 of distance traveled by light in chip time however the ultimate orbit estimation quality may depend on the precision of each measurement and the number of measurements. The chip rate of a code such as a CDMA code embedded in the PN signal can be the number of pulses per second chips per second at which the code is transmitted or received . Precision of the range can also be affected by clock errors. Clock errors can be cancelled using the same KGL satellite transceiver with a common clock at the KGL. Indeed the satellite avoids any timing electronics oscillators or GPS related components. The electronics at the KGL satellite transceiver can be of moderate quality and stability as any clock errors are made common thus having no impact on the orbit determination.

In one exemplary embodiment the KGL satellite transceiver can measure the Doppler shift in the KGL signal as discussed in greater detail below. The Doppler shift of the KGL signal may be trended to provide information on satellite position in directions other than the radial direction. The PN signal can measure distance in the radial direction only at a given time. Since the satellite is merely downlinking the uplinked signal on the same carrier as the uplink the KGL satellite transceiver can compare the returned signal with the original to determine Doppler shift.

In another exemplary embodiment the KGL satellite transceiver can measure the Doppler shift in the PN signal and the Doppler shift of the PN signal may be trended to provide inputs to ephemeris estimation.

The KGL satellite transceiver can transmit orbit information or orbit determination information of the satellite to the satellite as generated by the position and elevation acquisition module of the KGL satellite transceiver. Determining the orbit of the satellite from or at the KGL satellite transceiver instead of determining the orbit of the satellite at the satellite can reduce the cost of the satellite because an on board local oscillator LO or clock may not be needed generally or may not be needed for orbit determination.

In another exemplary embodiment illustrated by a second KGL satellite transceiver B at a different KGL can communicate with the satellite . Although shows the second KGL satellite transceiver transmitting and receiving and the first KGL satellite transceiver A transmitting and receiving in the same figure for illustrative purposes the first KGL satellite transceiver and second KGL satellite transceiver may communicate with the satellite at different times such as sequentially at different points in the satellite s orbit. The second KGL satellite transceiver can transmit transmitted signals B to the satellite and receive transponded signals B back from the satellite. A single satellite may receive transmitted signals from multiple KGL satellite transceivers at different KGLs and transmit transponded signals back to these multiple KGL satellite transceivers. Similarly a single KGL satellite transceiver may transmit transmitted signals to multiple satellites and receive and process transponded signals from multiple KGL satellite transceivers not shown . The first KGL satellite transceiver A can operate independently of the second KGL satellite transceiver B. In addition in one aspect the first KGL satellite transceiver and the second KGL satellite transceiver can be in communication with each other via an optical fiber wired or wireless connection or link. In another aspect the first KGL satellite transceiver and the second KGL satellite transceiver can be in communication with each other via a control station.

In another exemplary embodiment a second set of signals can be transmitted by the KGL satellite transceiver and received by the KGL satellite transceiver to at least partially compensate for various factors occurrences etc. such as atmospheric delays and refraction in the transmitted signals and in the transponded signals.

Atmospheric delays can include ionospheric delays and tropospheric delays. Ionospheric delay occurs in the ionosphere which is a part of the upper atmosphere comprising portions of the mesosphere thermosphere and exosphere distinguished because the upper atmosphere can be ionized by solar radiation. The ionosphere can play a part in atmospheric electricity and forms the inner edge of the magnetosphere and can influence radio propagation to distant places on the Earth.

Tropospheric delay occurs in the troposphere which includes the lowest portion of the Earth s atmosphere. The troposphere contains approximately 80 of the atmosphere s mass and 99 of its water vapor and aerosols. The average depth of the troposphere can be approximately 11 kilometers km Troposphere depth can vary being deeper in the tropical regions up to 20 km 12 miles and shallower near the poles at 7 km 4.3 mi depending upon the time of year.

Refraction can be the change in direction of a wave due to a change in the index of refraction of the medium through which the signal passes. Although atmospheric refraction may not be measured the second set of signals can be used to estimate for atmospheric refraction and account for the estimate in final range estimates. Atmospheric refraction can include the deviation of light or other electromagnetic wave such as a RF signal from a straight line as the light or other electromagnetic wave passes through the atmosphere. Refraction can occur due to the variation in air density as a function of altitude. Refraction can cause an extra path to be introduced into flight and can generate a small error in range measurements.

In essence atmospheric delays and refraction can vary the TOF and the Doppler shift of signals which variances can be accounted or compensated for by the second set of signals. If the satellite or the KGL satellite transceiver is in the ionosphere then Doppler may be affected. A KGL on the ground is not in the ionosphere but the ionosphere can extends up to about 1000 km so satellites can be in the ionosphere.

The second set of signals can include a second PN signal and a second KGL signal. The second PN signal and the second KGL signal can have similar characteristics to what may be termed here as the first PN signal and the first KGL signal previously described but can operate on a different frequency carrier from the first PN signal and the first KGL signal. The second PN signal can include a second transmitted PN signal and a second transponded PN signal. The second KGL signal can include a second transmitted KGL signal and a second transponded KGL signal. A second transmitted signal from the KGL satellite transceiver to the satellite can include the second transmitted PN signal and the second transmitted KGL signal. A second transponded signal from the satellite to the KGL satellite transceiver can include the second transponded PN signal and the second transponded KGL signal.

The second transmitted signal can be transmitted on a third frequency carrier and the second transponded signal can be transmitted on a fourth frequency carrier. The first frequency carrier discussed above and the third frequency carrier can be a different frequency carrier from each other. The second frequency carrier discussed above and the fourth frequency carrier can be a different frequency carrier from each other. A first set of signals including the first PN signal and the first KGL signal and the second set of signals can operate using at least two frequency carriers. Dual frequencies of the first set of signals and second set of signals can compensate for atmospheric delays and refraction. The second PN signal and the second KGL signal can be transmitted sequentially. In an example the transmitted signal can include the second transmitted signal and the transponded signal can include the second transponded signal.

In another exemplary embodiment the KGL satellite transceiver A can transmit the transmitted signal A to the satellite on the first frequency carrier as previously described above in reference to . However in this embodiment the satellite may be configured as illustrated in which satellite can include a frequency shifter between the signal receiver and the signal transmitter . When the first frequency carrier and the second frequency carrier operate on a different frequency carrier from each other the frequency shifter can shift the frequency of the transponded signal to the second frequency carrier after the satellite receives the transmitted signal on the first frequency carrier. The frequency shifter provides that the transmitted signal and the transponded signal do not interfere with each other. The frequency shifter can allow for FDD. The frequency shifter can include a local oscillator. The transmitted signal can be mixed with the local oscillator to generate the transponded signal on the second frequency carrier. The satellite may also transmit a tone at the frequency of the local oscillator or at a harmonic based on the satellite s local oscillator. The KGL satellite transceiver can receive the tone and can calibrate the frequency of the local oscillator.

The KGL satellite transceiver A can receive the transponded signal A from the satellite on the second frequency carrier and decode and measure the transponded signals as previously described with . Additionally the KGL satellite transceiver can calibrate drift in the local oscillator using the selected transmissions. As indicated above the KGL satellite transceiver can transmit orbit information or orbit determination information of the satellite to the satellite from the KGL. The calibration of drift can be useful for Doppler measurements on the second frequency carrier. The second set of signals can be transmitted by the KGL satellite transceiver and received by the KGL satellite transceiver for both the TDD and the FDD examples to compensate for atmospheric delays and refraction in the transmitted signals and the transponded signals.

The exemplary satellite configurations illustrated in which are not intended to be limiting can facilitate a low cost a low weight and or a low power solution for orbit determination. Moreover the exemplary satellites and the KGL satellite transceivers discussed herein can provide high precision orbit determination capability similar to a much more complex system of satellites using on board receivers and laser ranging. For instance an exemplary satellite configured as discussed herein is not subject to errors associated with an on board local oscillator.

The KGL satellite transceiver can include a position and elevation acquisition module which can further include the TOF module the Doppler shift module and the orbit determination module . The position and elevation acquisition module of the KGL satellite transceiver can determine the TOF of the PN signal and a Doppler shift in a KGL signal to determine the orbit of the satellite. Position and elevation acquisition for orbit determination is provided by the KGL satellite transceiver and the position and elevation acquisition module.

The PN signal generator can generate a PN code for the transmitted PN signal. The PN signal generator can include an atomic clock or a precise oscillator to encode the PN signal with a time and or generate a frequency carrier.

The KGL signal generator can generate the transmitted KGL signal. The signal transmitter can sequentially order the transmitted PN signal with the transmitted KGL signal into the transmitted signal which is to be transmitted to the satellite via the at least one transmitting antenna. The signal transmitter may transmit high chip rate PN signals. Moreover in a TDD configuration the signal transmitter can periodically space the transmission of the transmitted signal to avoid interference with the transponded signal.

At the reception side the transponded signal including the transponded PN signal and transponded KGL signal can be received by the signal receiver via the at least one receiving antenna. In the TDD configuration the transponded signal can be received on the first frequency carrier. In a FDD configuration the transponded signal can be received on the second frequency carrier.

The Doppler shift module can measure a two way Doppler shift of each KGL transponded signal. For example the Doppler shift module can measure a roundtrip Doppler shift in the KGL signal from the KGL satellite transceiver to the satellite and back to the KGL satellite transceiver. A plurality of KGL transponded signals received can be trended to generate a Doppler trend. In the event a second set of signals are used the second KGL transponded signal or plurality of second KGL transponded signals can be compared to what may be termed as the first KGL transponded signal or plurality of first KGL transponded signals to compensate and correct for unknown refraction and atmospheric delays such as ionospheric or other similar delays. A corrected Doppler trend can be used to fit orbital parameters. The Doppler trend may provide the velocity and the direction of the satellite which information can be used in orbit determination. In another example the Doppler shift module can measure a two way Doppler shift of each PN transponded signal.

The TOF module can decode and measure a time of flight TOF of the transponded PN signal. For example the TOF module can measure a roundtrip TOF of the PN signal from the KGL satellite transceiver to the satellite and back to the KGL satellite transceiver. In the event a second set of signals are used the TOF module can decode and measure the TOF of the second transponded PN signal. The TOF of the transponded PN signal and or the second transponded PN signal can be converted to a range or range measurement and range rate. When the second set of signals are used the second transponded PN signal or plurality of second transponded PN signals can be compared to what may be termed the first transponded PN signal or plurality of first PN transponded signals to compensate and correct for unknown refraction and atmospheric delays. A corrected range and or range rates can be used to fit orbital parameters.

The orbit determination module can combine the Doppler trend the range and or the range rates for an orbit determination. The orbit determination information may include a position an elevation a velocity and or a direction of the satellite.

The orbit determination module may transmit the orbit determination information of the satellite to the satellite or a control station via the signal transmitter and the at least one transmitting antenna . The orbit determination module may also transmit the orbit determination information of the satellite to the control station via an optical or wired connection or link.

The orbit determination module may include a Kalman filter. Using measurements observed over time containing noise random variations and other inaccuracies the Kalman filter can generate values that tend to be closer to the true values of the measurements and their associated calculated values. The Kalman filter can produce estimates of the true values of measurements and their associated calculated values by predicting a value estimating the uncertainty of the predicted value and computing a weighted average of the predicted value and the measured value. The most weight can be given to the value with the least uncertainty. The estimates produced by the Kalman filter tend to be closer to the true values than the original measurements because the weighted average has a better estimated uncertainty than either of the values that went into the weighted average. Other modules and methods may also be used in estimating orbits.

The transmitting antenna and or receiving antenna of the satellite can be a wide angle antenna to cover the Earth from a low orbit. The antenna gain can be limited with a wide angle antenna. The receiving antenna of the satellite and the transmitting antenna can be a single antenna or a duplex antenna as long as the antenna can both receive the transmitted signal s and transmit the transponded signal s .

The transmitted signal s and transponded signal s can operate in a frequency band the PN and KGL frequency band between a very high frequency VHF band to a K under K band. The VHF band is the radio frequency range from 30 megahertz MHz to 300 MHz and the Kband is the radio frequency range from 10.95 gigahertz GHZ to 14.5 GHz or the band directly below the K band. The K band is the radio frequency range from 18 GHz to 27 GHz. The PN and KGL frequency band can include the VHF an ultra high frequency UHF and portions of a super high frequency SHF band such as the Kband.

In an example the satellite can include minimal processing to maintain orbit information and or predict an orbit during a time interval when the satellite moves out of the range of one KGL satellite transceiver until the satellite is updated with orbit determination information from a different KGL satellite transceiver that is in range. Moreover the KGL satellite transceiver may be relocatable meaning the at the KGL satellite transceiver may be relocated to a different KGL. If necessary the entire system can also be reconstituted rapidly at another location. The satellite does not need to know the location of the KGL even if relocated or a different KGL used as the KGL comprises known ground location information. As relocated the KGL can perform the same functions as described herein to facilitate orbit determination.

Providing orbit determination at a ground location such as at the KGL instead of the satellite can reduce the cost of manufacturing and deploying satellites with functionality to obtain their orbit information. Generating orbit determination from the TOF and Doppler shift of signals at the KGL rather than at the satellite can provide a small low cost precision orbital determination POD capability for satellites such as remote sensing satellites including altimeters and imaging systems. The orbit determination function generated at the ground location can be used in an operationally responsive space system where rapid deployment of satellites can be achieved which may be rapidly reconstituted if necessary.

The precision orbit determination function as discussed herein that is generated at the ground location can have benefits over in space orbital determination systems utilizing on board processing of Doppler and or GPS signals with onboard algorithms. For instance a satellite using in space orbital determination generated by the satellite often utilizes a precise oscillator an ultrastable oscillator or an atomic clock which can be more expensive than a satellite with no local oscillator or a standard local oscillator. In addition a satellite using in space orbital determination generated by the satellite often utilizes an on board local oscillator which can generate errors in measurements. Even more in space orbital determination generated by a satellite may not be low cost and or can be susceptible to errors in the on board local oscillator.

It is further noted that the precision orbit determination capability discussed herein that is generated at the ground location using TOF and Doppler shift can have benefits over ground based techniques using laser transmitters plus space based retro reflectors as laser can be expensive and use more power to operate. The current precision orbit determination function generated at the ground location using TOF and Doppler shift can improve performance and accuracy over Doppler only or TOF only methods and with much greater simplicity than laser ranging. For example clock errors in the transmission of the transmitted PN signal and reception of the transponded PN signal back to the KGL satellite transceiver may be common thus having little impact in the accuracy of the measurements such as the range range rate and Doppler trend. The Doppler trend plus ranging can provide orbital determination accuracy of less than one meter.

The precision orbit determination function generated at the ground location using TOF and Doppler shift can predict ephemeris with reliable and high quality measurements such as position and velocity at low cost. Indeed the combined range from the time of flight of the PN signal and the Doppler measurements can be used to constrain orbit ephemeris filters. This is beneficial in a number of ways as power and or size specifications used for on board systems of satellites with orbit determination function may not be workable for small satellites.

Although not to be limiting in any way in some exemplary embodiments the satellite illustrated in can be a CUBESAT or other similar type of small or inexpensive type satellite such as a picosatellite or a nanosatellite. The CUBESAT can be a type of miniaturized satellite that can have a volume of approximately a liter 10 centimeter cm cube with a weight less than 2 kilograms kg . The CUBESAT can use commercial off the shelf electronics components. The picosatellite or picosat can refer to an artificial satellite with a wet mass between 0.1 and 1 kg 0.22 and 2.2 lb . The nanosatellite or nanosat can refer to an artificial satellite with a wet mass between 1 and 10 kilograms kg 2.2 and 22 pounds lb . A microsatellite or microsat can refer to an artificial satellite with a wet mass between 10 and 100 kg 22 and 220 lb . These satellites can include various components capable of providing various functions such a power source or a power generation mechanism a mechanism to control heating and cooling of the satellite and or a mechanism to point a transmitter or antenna to the Earth. The power generation mechanism can include solar cells or panels. The power source can include a battery or capacitive device. The mechanism to control the heating and cooling of the satellite may control the heating and cooling of the satellite passively so the mechanism does not require a power source to function properly. The mechanism to point the transmitter or antenna to the Earth may steer or rotate the position of the satellite passively. Those skilled in the art will recognize that these several descriptions are merely exemplary and are not intended to be limiting in any way.

The position and elevation acquisition module of the KGL satellite transceiver can provide Doppler based orbit determination and can reduce errors otherwise associated with a local or on board oscillator on the satellite. An ultra stable oscillator or clock such as an atomic clock may be included in the KGL satellite transceiver or available to the KGL satellite transceiver on the ground. The satellite may not include an ultra stable oscillator.

In an example the satellite shown in can have a reduced cost and or reduced size of space components. The satellite can use a delayed repeater for Doppler signals. The satellite can use a low cost local oscillator or transponder for ranging signals. The satellite can avoid using GPS and or a stable clock on the satellite. Orbit determination can be provided by the KGL satellite transceiver on the ground. A greater percentage of a power link budget e.g. power and aperture for the orbit determination can be placed on the ground where power is cheaper and more readily available. The number of frequency carriers used in the orbit determination can be low due to reuse of the frequencies for alternately transmitting the PN ranging signal the PN signal and the Doppler signal the KGL signal . Orbital determination may be provided to the satellite in real time for tasking and collection and may be used to geo locate collected data. In an example orbital determination accuracy can be determined by a range error which can be determined by a chip rate. For instance a range generated by the KGL satellite transceiver can have less than one meter radial error. Doppler measurements can provide additional accuracy to the range. The Doppler measurements can also generate sub meter second velocity information.

The satellite illustrated in can be a low Earth orbit LEO satellite. LEO can generally be defined as an orbit within the locus extending from the Earth s surface up to an altitude of approximately 2 000 kilometers km . Other types of satellites are medium Earth orbit MEO satellites. MEO also known as an intermediate circular orbit ICO can be a region of space around the Earth above the LEO altitude of approximately 2 000 km or 1 243 miles mi and below geostationary orbit altitude of 35 786 km or 22 236 mi . The geostationary orbit also known as the geostationary Earth orbit GEO can have a period equal to the Earth s rotational period and an orbital eccentricity of approximately zero. An object in the GEO can appear motionless at a fixed position in the sky relative to ground observers. Using the satellite in LEO instead of MEO can reduce the power consumed to receive the transmitted signals and transmit the transponded signals because the LEO can be closer to the KGL satellite transceiver. The satellite can have a much lower cost simpler design and fewer components than a satellite with on board orbit determination components which may include atomic clock . Given the close range of the satellite in LEO to the KGL satellite transceiver the signal strength for the transponded signals can be less than 10 watts W in an example. Furthermore the satellite can be a satellite with a stable orbit. A GEO satellite may be used if the GEO satellite has line of sight to at least three KGL satellite transceivers.

A GEO satellite can have a velocity of approximately 3 km second sec to match the velocity of the Earth with an apparent velocity of approximately 0 km sec. The apparent velocity can be an object s velocity such as a satellite relative to another object such as the KGL satellite transceiver at a fixed point on the Earth. The satellite in the LEO or other LEO satellite can have an orbit with an apparent velocity of approximately 5 to 7.5 km sec relative to the fixed point on the Earth.

A Doppler shift can be a change in a frequency or a change in a wavelength of a wave for an observer such as a receiver moving relative to the source of the wave such as a transmitter on a satellite. The motion of the observer the source or both can generate a change of the frequency. The relative changes in frequency due to the Doppler effect can be explained as follows. When the source of the waves is moving toward the observer each successive wave crest is emitted from a position closer to the observer than the previous wave. Therefore each wave takes slightly less time to reach the observer than the previous wave. Thus the time between the arrival of successive wave crests at the observer is reduced causing an increase in the frequency. While the waves are traveling the distance between successive wave fronts is reduced so the waves bunch together . Conversely if the source of waves is moving away from the observer each wave is emitted from a position farther from the observer than the previous wave so the arrival time between successive waves is increased reducing the frequency. The distance between successive wave fronts is increased so the waves spread out .

The Doppler shift can be proportional to the carrier frequency. Higher frequencies can provide more accuracy in Doppler measurements than lower frequencies but generating higher frequencies can consume more power in the satellite than lower frequencies. Objects moving at greater velocities relative to each other can provide more accuracy in Doppler measurements than objects moving at slower velocities relative to each other. Objects at closer distances to each other can provide more accuracy in Doppler measurements than objects at farther distances to each other. The satellite operating in LEO can impose a greater amount of Doppler shift on the transmitted signal and the transponded signal than a satellite operating in MEO which can have a slower apparent velocity.

Each signal received by the satellite and transmitted by the satellite can experience a Doppler shift in frequency due to the relative motion between the satellite and the KGL satellite transceiver. Thus each signal such as the transmitted signal and the transponded signal can experience a different Doppler shift from each other.

Another example provides a method for orbit determination of a satellite as shown in the flow chart in . The method includes the operation of determining an orbit of a satellite using a time of flight TOF of a pseudonoise PN signal and a Doppler shift in a known ground location KGL signal as in block .

The PN signal can include a transmitted PN signal and a transponded PN signal. The KGL signal can include a transmitted KGL signal and a transponded KGL signal. The transmitted PN signal and the transmitted KGL signal can be transmitted sequentially on a first frequency carrier from the KGL satellite transceiver to the satellite. The transponded PN signal and the transponded KGL signal can be retransmitted back sequentially on a second frequency carrier from the satellite to the KGL satellite transceiver. The first frequency carrier and the second frequency carrier use a same frequency carrier or a different frequency carrier from each other.

Various techniques or certain aspects or portions thereof may take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives non transitory computer readable storage medium or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the various techniques. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device may include a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. The volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements may be a RAM EPROM flash drive optical drive magnetic hard drive or other medium for storing electronic data. The KGL satellite transceiver and satellite may also include a transceiver module a counter module a processing module and or a clock module or timer module. One or more programs that may implement or utilize the various techniques described herein may use an application programming interface API reusable controls and the like. Such programs may be implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s may be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and combined with hardware implementations.

It should be understood that many of the functional units described in this specification have been labeled as modules in order to more particularly emphasize their implementation independence. For example a module may be implemented as a hardware circuit comprising custom VLSI circuits or gate arrays off the shelf semiconductors such as logic chips transistors or other discrete components. A module may also be implemented in programmable hardware devices such as field programmable gate arrays programmable array logic programmable logic devices or the like.

Modules may also be implemented in software for execution by various types of processors. An identified module of executable code may for instance comprise one or more physical or logical blocks of computer instructions which may for instance be organized as an object procedure or function. Nevertheless the executables of an identified module need not be physically located together but may comprise disparate instructions stored in different locations which when joined logically together comprise the module and achieve the stated purpose for the module.

Indeed a module of executable code may be a single instruction or many instructions and may even be distributed over several different code segments among different programs and across several memory devices. Similarly operational data may be identified and illustrated herein within modules and may be embodied in any suitable form and organized within any suitable type of data structure. The operational data may be collected as a single data set or may be distributed over different locations including over different storage devices and may exist at least partially merely as electronic signals on a system or network. The modules may be passive or active including agents operable to perform desired functions.

Reference throughout this specification to an example or exemplary means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the example is included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. Thus appearances of the phrases in an example or the word exemplary in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

As used herein a plurality of items structural elements compositional elements and or materials may be presented in a common list for convenience. However these lists should be construed as though each member of the list is individually identified as a separate and unique member. Thus no individual member of such list should be construed as a de facto equivalent of any other member of the same list solely based on their presentation in a common group without indications to the contrary. In addition various embodiments and example of the present invention may be referred to herein along with alternatives for the various components thereof. It is understood that such embodiments examples and alternatives are not to be construed as defacto equivalents of one another but are to be considered as separate and autonomous representations of the present invention.

Furthermore the described features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments. In the following description numerous specific details are provided such as examples of layouts distances network examples etc. to provide a thorough understanding of embodiments of the invention. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize however that the invention can be practiced without one or more of the specific details or with other methods components layouts etc. In other instances well known structures materials or operations are not shown or described in detail to avoid obscuring aspects of the invention.

While the forgoing examples are illustrative of the principles of the present invention in one or more particular applications it will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that numerous modifications in form usage and details of implementation can be made without the exercise of inventive faculty and without departing from the principles and concepts of the invention. Accordingly it is not intended that the invention be limited except as by the claims set forth below.

