---

title: Lighting device monitor and communication apparatus
abstract: A smart metered light fixture including a light source. The light fixture includes a surge protection device with a monitor that indicates when surge protection fails. The light fixture includes a power supply monitor configured to collect real-time AC current, voltage, and power factor measurements from a power supply. An operational characteristic monitor monitors an operational characteristic of the light source, such as current consumption, wattage, real-time temperature, a brightness level, and/or an efficiency of the light fixture. A communication device positioned between the power supply receives information from the monitors and wirelessly transmits information regarding the monitored operational characteristic and information and/or power supply measurements to a remote user equipment. The communications device may also receive control instructions from the remote user equipment for controlling aspects of the light source.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09049753&OS=09049753&RS=09049753
owner: APPALACHIAN LIGHTING SYSTEMS, INC.
number: 09049753
owner_city: Ellwood City
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120817
---
The present application for patent claims priority to Provisional Application No. 61 525 448 titled Lighting Device Communication Apparatus filed Aug. 19 2011 and Provisional Application No. 61 542 556 titled Lighting Device Including Power Supply and Surge Protection Monitoring filed Oct. 3 2011 the entire contents of both of which are hereby expressly incorporated by reference herein.

Aspects relate in general to electronic power supplies and specifically to lighting fixtures e.g. luminaires that utilize light emitting diodes LEDs as a light source and more particularly to lighting fixtures incorporating LEDs configured in a manner to amplify and direct light produced by such lighting fixtures. Aspects further include smart monitoring and remote control of such lighting fixtures.

It is desirable to adjust the amount of light generated by one or more light sources e.g. incandescent light bulbs fluorescent light fixtures LEDs etc. in various lighting applications e.g. home commercial industrial etc. . In many cases this is accomplished via a user operated device commonly referred to as a dimmer that adjusts the power delivered to the light source s . Many types of conventional dimmers allow a user to adjust the light output of one or more light sources via various types of user interface e.g. by turning a knob moving a slider etc. which is often mounted on a wall in a proximity to an area for which it is desirable to adjust the light level. Accordingly there is a need for providing a dimmer switching and adjustment mechanism that allows two way enhanced remote control of lighting fixtures.

It is further desirable to monitor aspects of a power supply used by and to provide surge protection for one or more light sources. LED fixtures as well as most electrical appliances have some form of an electronic power supply. Although hand held and other test equipment exist such equipment is completely external to the electrical appliance and the power supply. Thus the test equipment would have to be positioned in front of the equipment on the AC input side. Accordingly there is a need for providing more accurate power source measurements.

Surge protection may be provided for a light fixture. However when such surge protection stops functioning power in most cases unless due to a catastrophic failure continues to flow to the light fixture without any external evidence of failure and will no longer provide surge protection for the next incident of surge. Accordingly there is a need for better surge protection.

Aspects described herein overcome the drawbacks of previous systems by providing a two way RF to WiFi remote control system for lighting fixtures that is configured to measure and report wattage and voltage of the lighting fixture control the level of brightness dimness of the lighting fixtures and provide the ability to mesh a plurality of such remote systems together.

The system communicates with a plurality of lighting fixtures and can instruct the lighting system to pass such signals to additional lighting fixtures. The plurality of lighting fixtures may be located at multiple physical locations apart from each other. The control system may be used to remotely monitor communicate and control the lighting fixtures and other attached or component devices via the Internet.

Aspects further provide a way to more accurately measure and report such power measurements by incorporating an AC power measurement device into the light fixture to make power measurements of the power supply. The power measurement device may be incorporated within the structure of the power supply or may be provided external to the power supply. The measurement device may transmit in real time the electronic power supply s current voltage and power factor readings out of the electronic power supply in a digital format through an optical isolation device. This optical isolation device will transmit the information via a wire to a communication device such that the measurement readings of power consumption information can be wirelessly transmitted to a remote device.

Aspects may further include a smart surge protection device connected to the power supply. Aspects may further include remotely monitoring such a device.

Additional advantages and novel features of these aspects of the application will be set forth in part in the description that follows and in part will become more apparent to those skilled in the art upon examination of the following or upon learning by practice of the application.

Referring to a schematic system diagram of an example remote control module in communication with a wireless lighting module via a network in accordance with aspects of the present application. Remote control module may include a computer circuit integrated with a microcontroller driven RF transceiver module for securely communicating with various wireless devices connected with the wireless network . In some examples network may be contemplated via various conventional and or advanced wireless network techniques. In one aspect a wireless mesh network WMN may advantageously offer a broadband wireless communication environment for areas where wired infrastructure is not available or not worthy to deploy. Due to WMN s inherent characteristics such as self configuring and self healing capabilities the WMN can be easily deployed and maintained. However those of skill in the art will recognize that the devices and methods disclosed in this specification may also be useful for connecting devices to and configuring devices for any suitable types of wireless networks.

Remote control module is configured to provide two way RF to WiFi communication to remotely control and or program the dimming function of a plurality of lighting fixtures . In some implementations the processor embedded in the remote control module may include an operational metrics monitor module for monitoring and reporting the operational metrics and health of the lighting fixtures such as current electricity consumption with a fail safe mode of operation. Here the fail safe mode of operation generally refers to operation that can ensure a failure of equipment process or system does not propagate beyond the immediate environs of the failing entity as well as a control operation or function that prevents improper system functioning or catastrophic degradation in the event of circuit malfunction or an operator error. Among others example operational metrics may include a wattage used by each individual or all of the lighting fixtures real time temperature of the fixtures the amount of the fixtures capacity that is currently being used a level of brightness of the fixtures and a level of efficiency of the fixtures. The system may be used to communicate with and program the plurality of lighting fixtures which may be located in different physical locations apart from each other. In some examples the lighting control module may include circuitry having a unique and highly efficient DC DC converter to utilize and control the same voltage available to and powering each LED in the lighting fixtures 

As will be explained in details below present application includes a method of and system for remote secure control of the dimming function of a single LED lighting fixture or multiple fixtures simultaneously as part of an array. Aspect may include a method of and system for remote secure monitoring of voltage current consumption and temperature of a single LED lighting fixture or multiple fixtures simultaneously as part of an array. The method and system may be further configured with the ability to group a number of fixtures together as an array in part of a much larger network to control multiple arrays of fixtures at different dimming levels. Aspects may also include the provision of a fail safe operation of the LED lighting fixtures in the event of an over temperature condition.

In some examples the system may include a computer board not shown configured to control the output intensity of the fixture to prevent a thermal runaway condition. Disclosed system method herein may further include a fail safe operation of the LED fixtures in the event of loss of RF network signal. For example the computer board may be configured to maintain its existing state in the event of a loss of RF communication. Aspects may further include a fail safe operation of a particular or multiple LED fixtures in the event of loss of computer board DC DC power. For example the computer board may be configured to enable the fixture intensity to 100 in the event of a computer board DC DC failure. Aspects may further include the recovery of normal operation after a power failure event without user intervention.

As discussed above lighting fixture control devices available on the market are designed to work on the AC side of High Intensity Discharge Lamp HID High Pressure Sodium HPS fluorescent and LED fixtures. The system described herein can be designed to work on the DC side light output side thereby protecting it from transient surge and spikes and other power line issues. Among others benefits may include being able to run the system on very minimal voltage and also being able to make it work with harvested radio frequency voltage.

Such a system can be configured to be applied in multiple situations. For example aspects of the controller may be designed for use in offices and in parking garage applications for daylight energy harvesting. In some embodiments the power source may employ any and all forms of energy harvesting. Energy harvest may without limitation include capturing radiofrequency energy converting kinetic energy to electrical energy including converting motion or tension into electrical energy converting thermal energy into electrical energy converting wind energy into electrical energy and so on. In some examples energy harvesting may include collecting light from other light sources and converting that light into electrical energy. It will be understood that a variety of systems and methods that harvest energy are possible. In some other examples the power source may be contemplated through wireless power transmission where a method of wireless power transmission may act as the power source or in combination with the other power sources e.g. rechargeable batteries capacitors and the like to provide power to relevant on board modules. Power sources that can be used stand alone i.e. not connected to a traditional AC power source may be defined as wireless power. In one aspect a wireless power source may allow the installation of the lighting control module in any indoor or outdoor location where light may be desired without the need for a wired connection to an AC power source. Additionally aspects of the computer controlled version can be configured for use in other indoor and outdoor lighting systems.

In one aspect the remote control module can be accessed and controlled via the Internet on a user device . For example the remote control module may be configured to be controlled by Smart phone technology as there currently exist a variety of wireless devices including mobile phones personal digital assistants PDAs laptops and paging devices that are small lightweight and easily carried by users. These devices may include the ability to transmit voice and or data over wireless networks. Some of these wireless devices may utilize application programming interfaces APIs that are sometimes referred to as runtime environments and software platforms. The APIs can be installed onto a wireless device to simplify the operation and programming of such wireless devices by providing generalized calls for device resources. Further some APIs can provide software developers the ability to create software applications that are executable on such wireless devices. In addition APIs can provide an interface between a wireless device and the software applications. As such the wireless device functionality can be made available to the software applications by allowing the software to make a generic call for a function without requiring a developer to tailor its source code to the individual hardware or device on which the software is executing. Further some APIs can provide mechanisms for secure communications between wireless devices such as client devices and server systems using secure cryptographic key information.

In some other implementations the remote control module may be configured with its own hand held remote control device . When adding such a device to home office buildings and automotive electronic components the device can be configured to feed back all necessary data to be able to give real time monitoring control and to further manage light fixtures in a way to increase their energy efficiency.

In one example as shown in the remote control module may include a user command controller for obtaining and processing user commands to communicate with a plurality of wireless lighting modules in various formats. A user may enter a command through keyboards mice trackballs and joysticks. These input devices are used to control cursors mouse pointers etc. in order to manipulate e.g. buttons switches dials knobs that are displayed graphically on a display screen of the user device for controlling the remote lighting fixtures . In some examples lighting fixtures may be associated with dedicated channels such that the user can select a channel number via the remote control module by referring to specific channel numbers. In other examples the channel number assigned for the remote lighting fixtures may be preprogrammed randomly generated or previously stored in a memory . Example commands may include an on off toggle command an on command an off command a dim command a brightness command a color change command or a timer command.

The user command controller may also provide the user with a voice command input means by using e.g. a voice recognition module which receives a voice command from the user. The voice command is then identified as a specific command or a fuzzy command using a fuzzy logic algorithm. If the voice command is a specific command one of the operations corresponding to the voice command is adjusted. If the voice command is a fuzzy command a plurality of the operations corresponding to the voice command is adjusted. Further if the adjusted operations do not meet the user s expectation the user can further modify the operations using an adjustment modification process. A process of modifying the operations can be performed by e.g. another voice command. Since a specific command means a specific operating action this operating action can adjust a specific category of the remote lighting fixtures . The specific category can be stored in for example the voice recognition module or the memory depending on design requirements. If this specific command for example is decrease brightness then this specific command can directly adjust the brightness of the remote lighting fixtures . On the other hand a fuzzy command may involve adjusting the lighting fixtures through a plurality of operations. The operations can be stored in the voice recognition module or the memory or even an independent command database depending on the design requirements. Accordingly a series of operations can be issued to adjust the remote lighting fixtures in a plurality of steps.

After the user inputs a command through the command input processor may encode the command and subsequently instruct the RF transceiver to transmit an RF signal that includes the encoded command. In one example the RF transceiver transmits RF signals at a predetermined frequency or a user selected frequency. The RF signal may be transmitted once or for a predetermined number of times or for a predetermined time period. If more than one RF signal is transmitted each transmission may be separated by a predetermined time interval.

The lighting control module can include an RF transceiver that monitors for RF signals at a predetermined frequency. For example the RF transceiver periodically monitors for RF signals or continuously monitors for RF signals from network . When an RF signal is received the signal is transmitted to LED controller where the signal is decoded. In one aspect the LED controller may obtain and compare a decoded channel number that is included in the command to a specific LED channel number. For example if the command is an on off toggle command the lighting control module may instruct the LED controller to toggle a plurality of LEDs . If the command is an on command the LED controller may first determine if the plurality of LEDs are in an on state. If the LEDs are not in an on state the LED controller can activate the plurality of LEDs 

As shown in the RF transceivers and allow two way communication. In some implementation the remote control module may be programmed to repeatedly transmit a command signal until a confirmation signal is received. Additionally the lighting control module may be programmed to transmit a confirmation signal upon receipt of an RF signal or upon successfully decoding a command. In another example the RF transceivers and can provide the remote control module with feedback relating to a state associated with the lighting control module e.g. whether the LEDs are in an on state an off state an intensity of the LEDs and the life of certain relevant components . Moreover RF transceivers and can allow the lighting control module to communicate with other disparate wireless lighting control module s e.g. to propagate or repeat signals .

The lighting control module in may comprise a PCB assembly that is configured to adjust voltage to a control pin of a LED constant current type power supply based on dimming commands from the RF transceiver and and relevant software programmed to meet specific requirements. Multiple such constant current LED supplies can be controlled and monitored from this one PCB assembly. For example at least two such constant current LED supplies can be controlled and monitored from a single assembly one controlling resistor dividers to set the current for one supply while Q7 Q8 Q9 Q10 control the other.

Current monitoring LED power consumption can be achieved through U2 and U3. Such a component can be supplied for each of the power supplies being monitored as these components sense LED current through a sensing resistor Rsense R1 Rsense R2. The current signal can be amplified by U2 U3 and is ultimately driven as a voltage into pins of a RF engine which will described fully below. Additionally the PCB assembly may include resistor dividers R9 R13 and R36 R37 to sense the voltages of the LED rails and drive those values into the RF engine where certain computing can be performed to calculate the actual power consumed by the LEDs . In some examples current monitoring U2 U3 for two separate power supplies LED banks may be provided. Since no LED driver board is present for this design the dimming of the LED may be contemplated by hardware switching of 4 hardware steps to realize 5 dimming levels Q1 2 4 6 and Q7 8 9 10 of the LED 

Elements J3 and J4 may be used as a unit for enabling the wireless communication of the lighting control module . In one aspect an RF engine such as a Synapse RF engine can be plugged into elements J3 J4. An RF engine may include the hardware to communicate via RF along with a microcontroller that drives all the signals to actively read the health and control the dimming of associated LEDs. For example it may be beneficial for the RF module to run from a voltage similar to that used to drive the lighting fixtures LEDs . A Synapse module for example runs from 3.3V DC. The 3.3V DC may be generated from the same voltage that is used to drive the LEDs . The DC DC converter control IC U1 along with its supporting R s and C s steps the LED rail voltage down to the level required by the Synapse module. This DC DC converter can be used in various applications as the LED rail voltage needed to run this converter can be between 12 75V DC.

In some implementations lights can be quickly configured to different channels to group lights together for specific location dimming control abilities. Jumpers JP2 JP3 may set the address to which location the LEDs will be located. In other words jumpers JP2 JP3 may be used to set addresses to allow groups of lighting fixtures to be established by location. Moreover JP1 may be utilized to initiate a hardware test mode for manufacturing debug purposes. For example the test mode jumper JP1 can be used to perform manufacturing testing of the dimming modes and communication abilities. Jumpers may also set the unit in test mode and will cycle through all the dimming steps along with broadcasting current and voltage data back to any RF engine on the network set to receive these signals.

Fail safe thermal protection may be achieved through multiple methods one being a thermal sensor which may be external to the PCB assembly. This sensor along with the software programmed into RF engine will sense and determine a level which LED dimming will occur due to an over temperature condition. In the event that the DC DC converter fails and no RF engine function can occur an additional thermal switch will manually through hardware control drive the dimming function to a pre determined level to reduce the heat generated by the LEDs when the lower temperature is satisfied by the thermal switch such that normal operation can resume.

A dimming function may also be configured with a fail safe because all signals to control dimming are actively driven from the RF engine. In the event that the RF engine experiences a failure or the DC DC converter fails shutting off the RF engine the light will assume full brightness. Full brightness is the default state unless actively driven to a lower dimming state by the RF engine or hardware thermal control.

Further temperature monitoring via a thermal switch connected to J6 in the event of some hardware or software failure absolute maximum temperature of the LED may be controlled directly through hardware.

Additionally temperature monitoring may be employed by a sensor for providing relevant information to the lighting control module such that the dimming levels can be controlled through software hardware or combination thereof.

Although the example is described in connection with a Synapse RF engine it is understood that any number of RF chips can be contemplated.

A dimmer device may comprise a five step dimmer schematic of the PCB assembly describe above. These dimming steps may be commanded by a master control RF engine on a network or locally from thermal control hardware. The schematic shows the lighting control module may include an RF engine connector DC DC circuitry I Monitor circuitry and four elements. The lighting control module may further include connections between the illustrated components. Thus aspects include using a programmable chip placed on the lighting control module and its associated circuitry which is installed on the DC side of the power supply in the LED lighting fixtures . The programmable chip may be for example a Synapse chip.

The lighting control module in may include an on board DC DC converter U1 that can be included to use same voltage as supplied to the LED . Current monitoring U2 can be employed for one power supply LED bank. Since this design may be used to work in conjunction with an LED driver board not shown pulse width modulation PWM dimming may be realized. Compared with DC dimming PWM dimming has advantages of a constant lighting color and good stability at low brightness. In one example Q1 and its surrounding passive components may translate the PWM signal to be compatible with the existing driver board. A much larger number of dimming steps can be obtained by adjusting the dimming signal from e.g. the Synapse module. In some implementations temperature monitoring may not be included on this board. Temperature monitoring via thermal switch may similarly not be included on this board. In one aspect Synapse wireless communication control module may be plugged into J1 as a unit. Jumpers ADR0 ADR1 may be used to set address to allow groups of lights to be established by location. A TEST jumper may be utilized as a hardware initiated test mode to aid in manufacturing debug process.

A PCB assembly with PWM dimming capabilities may include an RF engine connector DC DC converter circuitry I Monitor circuitry and a PWM circuitry.

It may be desirable to include such PWM components so that the LED lighting fixtures can be serviced with only one PCB by allowing temperature monitoring control in additional to the PWM dimming capabilities.

This overcomes previous inaccuracies in power usage measurement. For example if only the DC power usage is measured the system may actually be consuming a higher amount of AC power due to inefficiencies in the power supply. Such inefficiencies may occur due to damage age etc. By measuring the AC power consumption at the power supply a very accurate report on the ongoing health of the power supply can be provided. For example a monitoring chip may be positioned to perform measurements at the point where the power supply receives the AC power .

The system may further include a surge protection device connected between the power supply device and a source of AC power. The surge protection device provides a connection for the AC power source to the power supply device.

The surge protection device provides surge protection along with remote monitoring. The surge protection device includes a surge protection component having connections between the AC power source and one or multiple power supply devices . Until a single or multiple power surge s occur that disable a surge protection component AC power is supplied on a protected line. The protected connection includes a surge protection component. illustrates a surge protection component within the surge protection device . The surge protection component may include for example an integrated fuse. The surge protection component can be configured to withstand multiple 10 KV surges. Once one or a sufficient number of multiple power surge s occur the surge protection aspect of the surge protection component is disabled the integrated fuse will also be disabled and will cease to allow current to flow to an internal optical isolation device .

At this time the current that would go through the surge protection component to the optical isolation device stops. The surge protection device does not provide surge protection but allows a continued supply of power to the power supply device so that the lighting fixture continues to operate.

Thus the optical isolation device within the surge protection device serves as a monitor that provides a signal indicating that the protected connection is operating correctly. For example the surge protection device may be monitored by the communication device . The monitor within the surge protection device may send a simple yes or no signal 1 or 0 to the communication device which is interpreted to mean that the surge protection component within the surge protection device is working or not. As another example the signal to the communication device may comprise a 0 1023 varying digital representation of the health of a plurality of surge devices located in the light fixture. A zero signal indicates that the surge protection devices are functioning and as the signal approaches 1023 it indicates that the surge protection devices have each failed.

When the surge protection and integrated fuse are disconnected disabled the signal ceases. The surge protection and integrated fuse are configured to fail simultaneously. This indicates that the surge protected connection has failed so that a user will be notified to replace the surge protection device. The signal may be transmitted via an internal optical isolation device that can be connected by a wire to a 2 way RF to WiFi communication device e.g. communication device .

The surge protection device may have a modular pluggable configuration for easy replacement if the surge protection device fails. As an example if the surge protection component fails the entire surge protection device can be replaced. As another example the surge protection device can be configured such that it can be replaced by cutting the AC connections to a failed surge board and recrimping new connections to a new surge board. The surge protection device described herein i remotely monitors the health of these individual surge components in each lighting fixture or other electronic equipment and ii makes possible the method of easily changing the surge protection device in the field. The information signal goes to the communication device over a wire coming from an Optical Isolation Device internal to the surge Protection Device which can then be transmitted over the communication device s 2 way RF to WiFi capabilities.

Aspects described herein may be applied to a lighting fixture including the remote monitoring of the health of each of the MOV metal oxide varistor devices in an LED fixture remotely through a computer board. This number may include four MOV devices within an LED fixture.

By providing an ongoing connection between the AC power source and the power supply even after a disabling power surge has occurred the lighting fixture will continue to operate as needed. The modular design of the replaceable surge protection device and the immediate reporting of it to Field maintenance personnel over the communication device enables quick field changing of defective devices in the field to allow for continued operation and to prevent further damage.

However until a user is able to replace the surge protection device the power supply is vulnerable to power surges. A power surge may reduce the efficiency at which the power supply operates. Therefore it is beneficial to monitor the ongoing efficiency of the power supply in order to ensure that the overall system is operating efficiently.

By using a combination of the monitor within the power supply and the monitor within the surge protection device a user is informed of problems due to power surges without discontinuing operation of the lighting fixture. Optical isolation connections provide information monitored at the AC side of the system e.g. at the AC side of the power supply and at the surge protection device to the communication device positioned on the DC side of the system so that no direct connection between the AC and DC side is provided other than the power supply .

Aspects of the power supply and surge protection devices can be applied to other systems. For example the monitoring chip could be positioned to monitor the ballast of a fluorescent light. Such components could be used with other electronic equipment in order to inform a user when problems occur in the surge protector or power supply while providing ongoing use of the device.

Aspects described herein provide a method of incorporating AC mains measurement technology directly into AC DC power supplies.

A method is provided to optically connect combined data from a measurement device to a computer board digitally in order to make use of the data after the isolation barrier of the power supply. This transforms passive power supplies into smart metered devices to enable power consumption data to be monitored and controlled in any appliance that makes use of an AC to DC power supply. This can be especially helpful in municipal light fixtures such as street lights. A utility company typically charges a municipality based on an estimated power usage for such street lights. For example the utility company may estimate the power used based on the known wattage of the light and a calculated amount of dark hours during which the lights would be used. The above described communication device enables a municipality to control the amount of power used by such lighting fixtures. For example this enables a municipality to dim certain lights during specified nighttime hours to conserve energy consumption and reduce operating costs. By incorporating smart metering into the light fixture the municipality can accurately report and therefore be charged for the actual amount of power used.

Smart monitoring in a replaceable surge protection device allows the municipality to know when surge protection devices need to be replaced. Smart metering in the power supply would also inform the municipality of any possible damage to the power supply.

Aspects described herein enable smart power metering into AC appliances through a combination of a power supply and AC line measurement chips and circuitry. Measurement data can be coupled to the safe low voltage side of the supply isolating high potential AC from the user. Power supply data can be transmitted through a wireless computer board to monitor consumption data at a remote monitoring device station.

Additionally a photocell may be included in the light fixture. For example the photocell may be used to determine the lighting conditions of the environment surrounding the light fixture so that a determination can be made when to turn on the light source. The photocell may be tuned to the visible light spectrum. For example the photocell may determine when the environment is dark enough that the light source should be turned on. The light fixture may be programmed to use the photocell to determine when to turn the light source ON and OFF. For example the light fixture may be programmed to turn the light source ON at a threshold light level detected by the photocell. Among others the threshold light level may correspond to sundown dusk and after it becomes dark.

Rather than detecting sunlight directly the photocell may be configured such that it senses light passed through from outside the light fixture. For example a light transmitting component such as an acrylic tube or a glass tube may be used to pass light from the outside of the fixture to the photocell. The tube may be a replaceable. The light transmission tube may protrude from the light fixture e.g. approximately inch from the light fixture. A light transmission tube provides additional surface area to receive sample light which increases the sensitivity of the photocell. Additionally the configuration using a light transmission tube prevents direct sunlight from reaching the sensor. This leads to a longer photocell life. Alternately a lens can be used for the programmable photocell.

The photocell can be an integrated part of an ALLink control system e.g. communications device that operates from low voltage e.g. 3.3 Volts. By providing the photocell on the lower voltage DC side of the light fixture the photocell is not affected by AC line surges.

The photocell may act similar to a photo activated transistor. For example a small change in photons light bombarding the base of the internal structure of the photocell can cause a larger current to flow between a collector and an emitter of the photocell. As a result the amplified version provides more range of digital bits to work with for a given small change in light.

The photocell is fully programmable. The photocell can be reprogrammed through wireless remote control. For example the photocell may also be controlled via the remote control device that manages the light fixture s operation. The thresholds in which this transistor will activate deactivate the light can be reprogrammed. Software control can adjust the thresholds of the ON OFF operating points of the sensor in order to compensate for variations in the acrylic light tube that passes outside light in to the sensor. The adjustments to the activation threshold for the light fixture can be made manually by user definition or by automatic software adjustments based on other light fixtures in the vicinity that make up a network of light fixture. For example if 9 out of 10 lights on a street are reporting that it is time to turn the fixture off based on a reading from their respective photocells and the tenth light is not providing the same reading the control software can adjust the on off thresholds of the tenth light in order to have its reading match the other nearby lights. In the event that the sensor becomes out of range or un responsive the network can completely override the photo sensor input. In contrast to existing photoeye design immediate replacement of the photocell is not necessary in order to maintain properly functioning lights.

Additionally the component that passes light to the sensor e.g. the acrylic tube may also be a field replaceable item in the event it becomes too dirty or damaged to pass enough light for the photocell to provide an accurate measurement. The acrylic tube can be replaced without touching the photocell sensor.

Optional aspects in are illustrated using a dashed line. The method may further include receiving control instructions from the remote management device for controlling the light fixture. For example the instructions may instruct the light fixture to dim the light source to adjust a photocell sensor and any of the other control instructions described herein. This information may be received by the communications device. Once instructions are received the light fixture responds by implementing the instructions. These instructions may be implemented via the communications device or via a driver positioned between the communications device and the light source.

At step a failure may be detected in surge protection at the light fixture. This detection may occur when the communications device receives an indication from a surge protection device via an optical isolation connection therebetween. Once a failure is detected the communications device transmits a report of the failure to the remote management device.

At step the communications device receives power measurements from a monitoring device on the AC side of the power supply. This measurement information may be received via an optical isolation connection. The communications device may also transmit this measurement information to the remote management device.

At step the communications device receives reconfiguration parameters for a photocell sensor. The photocell sensor may be provided on the same circuit board as the communications device. Thereafter the communications device adjusts the photocell sensor s parameters accordingly.

At step the remote management device receives an indication that a surge protection feature at the light fixture has failed. The light fixture may continue to operate without surge protection and this report to the remote management device enables the user to schedule a replacement of a surge protection component while the light fixture continues to operate.

At step the remote management device may be configured to communicate with and control a plurality of light fixtures. The light fixtures may be controlled individually or as groups of light fixtures.

Aspects of the present application may be implemented using hardware software or a combination thereof and may be implemented in one or more computer systems or other processing systems. In one example the application is directed toward one or more computer systems capable of carrying out the functionality described herein. An example of such a computer system is shown in .

Computer system includes one or more processors such as processor . The processor is connected to a communication infrastructure e.g. a communications bus cross over bar or network . Various software embodiments are described in terms of this example computer system. As used in this application the terms component module system and the like are intended to include a computer related entity such as but not limited to hardware firmware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a computing device and the computing device can be a component. One or more components can reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers. In addition these components can execute from various computer readable media having various data structures stored thereon. The components may communicate by way of local and or remote processes such as in accordance with a signal having one or more data packets such as data from one component interacting with another component in a local system distributed system and or across a network such as the Internet with other systems by way of the signal. After reading this description it will become apparent to a person skilled in the relevant art s how to implement the application using other computer systems and or architectures.

In one aspect computer system can include a display interface that forwards graphics text and other data from the communication infrastructure or from a frame buffer not shown for display on a display unit . Computer system also includes a main memory preferably random access memory RAM and may also include a secondary memory . The secondary memory may include for example a hard disk drive and or a removable storage drive representing a floppy disk drive a magnetic tape drive an optical disk drive etc. The removable storage drive reads from and or writes to a removable storage unit in a well known manner. Removable storage unit represents a floppy disk magnetic tape optical disk etc. which is read by and written to removable storage drive . As will be appreciated the removable storage unit includes a computer usable storage medium having stored therein computer software and or data.

In alternative examples secondary memory may include other similar devices for allowing computer programs or other instructions to be loaded into computer system . Such devices may include for example a removable storage unit and an interface . Examples of such may include a program cartridge and cartridge interface such as that found in video game devices a removable memory chip such as an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or programmable read only memory PROM and associated socket and other removable storage units and interfaces which allow software and data to be transferred from the removable storage unit to computer system .

Computer system may also include a communications interface . Communications interface allows software and data to be transferred between computer system and external devices. Examples of communications interface may include a modem a network interface such as an Ethernet card a communications port a Personal Computer Memory Card International Association PCMCIA slot and card etc. Software and data transferred via communications interface are in the form of signals which may be electronic electromagnetic optical or other signals capable of being received by communications interface . These signals are provided to communications interface via a communications path e.g. channel . This path carries signals and may be implemented using wire or cable fiber optics a telephone line a cellular link a radio frequency RF link and or other communications channels. In this document the terms computer program medium and computer usable medium are used to refer generally to media such as a removable storage drive a hard disk installed in hard disk drive and signals . These computer program products provide software to the computer system . The application is directed to such computer program products.

Computer programs also referred to as computer control logic are stored in main memory and or secondary memory . Computer programs may also be received via communications interface . Such computer programs when executed enable the computer system to perform the features of the present application as discussed herein. In particular the computer programs when executed enable the processor to perform the features of the present application. Accordingly such computer programs represent controllers of the computer system .

In an example where the application can be implemented using software the software may be stored in a computer program product and loaded into computer system using removable storage drive hard drive or communications interface . The control logic software when executed by the processor causes the processor to perform the functions of the application as described herein. In another example the application may be implemented primarily in hardware using for example hardware components such as application specific integrated circuits ASICs . Implementation of the hardware state machine so as to perform the functions described herein will be apparent to persons skilled in the relevant art s .

In yet another illustration the application may be implemented using a combination of both hardware and software.

While aspects of this application have been described in conjunction with the examples outlined above various alternatives modifications variations improvements and or substantial equivalents whether known or that are or may be presently unforeseen may become apparent to those having at least ordinary skill in the art. Accordingly the examples as set forth above are intended to be illustrative not limiting. Various changes may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the application. Therefore the application is intended to embrace all known or later developed alternatives modifications variations improvements and or substantial equivalents.

