---

title: System and method for sharing media in a group communication among wireless communication devices
abstract: A system, method, and wireless communication device for sharing media in a group communication among a plurality of wireless communications devices, such as among a Push-to-Talk (PTT) group. A wireless communication device that is a member of the communication group can send group-directed media, such as graphics, multimedia and applications, to other members of the communication group, either during a ongoing PTT communication, or independently there from. In one embodiment, a communication computer device stores information on communication groups on the wireless communication network that includes the member wireless communication devices of one or more communication groups, and receives group-directed media from a sending wireless communication device sends the group-directed media either directly to the other member wireless communication devices of the communication group or stores the group-directed media such that the other member devices can access and download the group-directed media.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08892148&OS=08892148&RS=08892148
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 08892148
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121012
---
This application is a divisional of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 141 493 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR SHARING MEDIA IN A GROUP COMMUNICATION AMONG WIRELESS COMMUNICATION DEVICES filed Jun. 18 2008 which claims the benefit of priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 945 102 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR SHARING MEDIA IN A GROUP COMMUNICATION AMONG WIRELESS COMMUNICATION DEVICES filed Jun. 20 2007 the entire contents of both of which are incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention relates to point to point or point to multipoint wireless communications systems. More specifically the present invention relates to systems and methods for sharing various forms of media between members of a communicating group of wireless telecommunication devices.

In wireless telecommunication devices such as cellular phones PDAs mini laptops and advanced pagers the devices typically communicate over long distances by bridging telephone calls through existing cellular telephone networks and passing data packets across the network. These wireless devices often have limited to significant data processing and computing capability and can accordingly send and receive software programs in addition to voice across the telephone network.

There exists a wireless telecommunication service that provides a quick one to one or one to many communication that is generically referred to as Push To Talk PTT capability. The specific PTT group of recipient devices for the communicating wireless device is commonly set up by the carrier. A PTT communication connection is typically initiated by a single button push on the wireless device that activates a half duplex link between the speaker and each member device of the group and once the button is released the device can receive incoming PTT transmissions once the button is released. In some arrangements the PTT speaker will have the floor where no other group member can speak while the speaker is speaking. Once the speaker releases the PTT button any other individual member of the group can engage their PTT button and they will have the floor.

In existing PTT systems member devices will only communicate voice data between the devices in an active group communication. It is difficult to include other data in the group communication because of the size of the data and the device resources necessary to handle non voice data. The existing mobile devices therefore send non voice data such as graphics multimedia and other data files through specific data channels established between the device and a wireless communication network.

Accordingly it would be advantageous to provide a system and method for a wireless device member of a group to send media to others member of the PTT target group. The system and method should be able to accommodate group directed media data of large size without compromising the integrity of other PTT communications or unduly utilizing device resources. It is thus to the provision of such a system and method to allow group directed media among wireless devices in a PTT group that the present invention is primarily directed.

Briefly described the present invention includes a system method and wireless communication device that allows the sharing of media between communication groups on wireless communication networks. In the system the user can attach a data file data block or other application specific data which can be a picture an audio clip a voice mail message and the like and send it to one or more other member s wireless devices. The distribution data path for the group direct media can be independent from the same data path of the PTT voice communications or can be independent of it such that the feature can be accessed at any time whether the user is participating in a PTT call or not. In one embodiment the originator of the group directed media can select a target list of members to receive the data file and the target list can be one or more user addresses one or more group addresses or a combination of the two.

In one embodiment if the originator of the group directed media is participating in a PTT call the originator can elect to send the file to one or more participants of the same PTT call by uploading the file to a server and then the server or the originator can notify the target wireless devices that a file is available for download. The target users are provided the option to allow or decline the downloading of the file on to the target client. Alternately the target users are provided a pointer such as a hyperlink to the stored file where they can later obtain that file without necessarily downloading to the wireless communication device. Furthermore the system can be embodied such that the target user can periodically browse or poll the file server to check and see if media is available for download.

In one embodiment the system for sharing media in a group communication among a plurality of wireless communications devices includes at least one wireless communication device that is a member of a communication group of wireless communication devices that communicate with each other in direct group communications across a wireless communication network such as PTT voice communications. The wireless communication device will selectively send group directed media to other members of the communication group and at least one communication computer device stores information on communication groups on the wireless communication network that includes the member wireless communication devices of one or more communication groups. The communication computer device selectively receives group directed media from a sending wireless communication device of a communication group and sends the group directed media to the other member wireless communication devices of the communication group for the sending wireless communication device. The communication computer device can be selectively in communication with a data store to store the group directed media for the member wireless communication devices to access the media. The wireless communication device may also be a desktop laptop or other stationary computer platform that can have a wired connection to Internet or other network and otherwise engage in group communications with the other wireless communication devices.

In one embodiment the method for sharing media in a group communication among a plurality of wireless communications devices on a wireless communication network includes receiving at a communication computer device the group directed media sent from a wireless communication device to other members of the communication group for the wireless communication device with the wireless communication device a member of a communication group of wireless communication devices that communicate with each other in direct group communications across a wireless communication network The communication computer device storing information including the member wireless communication devices of one or more communication groups and then sending the group directed media from the communication computer device to one or more of the other member wireless communication devices of the communication group for the sending wireless communication device.

The present system and method are therefore advantageous in that a wireless communication device member of a communication group has the ability to share media among the other member devices of the communication group such as a PTT target group either during an ongoing group communication or separately there from. The system and method allows the group directed media of any size to be communicated without unduly utilizing device resources. Moreover the group directed media can be in virtually any data type and include active and accessible computer applications.

Other objects features and advantages of the present invention will become apparent after review of the Brief Description of the Drawings Detailed Description of the Invention and the Claims.

In this description the terms communication device wireless device wireless communications device PTT communication device handheld device mobile device and handset are used interchangeably. The terms call and communication are also used interchangeably. The term application as used herein is intended to encompass executable and non executable software files raw data aggregated data patches and other code segments. The term exemplary means that the disclosed element or embodiment is only an example and does not indicate any preference of user. Further like numerals refer to like elements throughout the several views and the articles a and the includes plural references unless otherwise specified in the description.

With reference to the figures in which like numerals represent like elements throughout illustrates one embodiment of the system for sharing group media among one or more wireless telecommunication devices in a PTT group such as the wireless telephone smart pager and personal digital assistant PDA with other wireless telecommunication devices across a wireless network . In the system each wireless telecommunication device is capable of selectively directly communicating across the wireless communication network with a target set of one or more other wireless telecommunication devices of the plurality. For example the target set for mobile telephone can be all devices in the communication group or a subset thereof such as pager and PDA .

In this embodiment the wireless telecommunication device such as mobile telephone sends a flag to at least the communication computer device shown here as server which is present on a server side LAN across the wireless network to indicate that the wireless device is present i.e. accessible on the wireless network . The communication computer device can share this information with the set of target wireless telecommunication devices designated by the first wireless telecommunication device or can also share is with other computer devices resident on the server side LAN or accessible across the wireless network . The communication computer device can have an attached or accessible database to store the group identification data for the wireless devices. A data store shown here as file management server is also present on the server side LAN . It should be appreciated that the number of computer components resident on server side LAN or across the wireless network or Internet generally are not limited.

The direct communication such as a PTT communication can be established through a half duplex channel between the communicating wireless telecommunication device and the one or more other wireless telecommunication devices of the target set. Also the communication computer device can attempt to bridge the requested direct communication with the target set if at least one of the wireless telecommunication devices of the target set have informed the communication computer device of their presence on the wireless network .

The communication computer device can also inform the wireless telecommunication device of the inability to bridge a direct communication to the target set upon none of the wireless telecommunication devices or at least one of the target set not having informed the communication computer device of their presence on the wireless network . Further while the communication computer device is shown here as having the attached database of group identification data the communication computer device can have group identity data resident thereupon and perform all storage functions described herein.

In overview the system includes at least one wireless communication device such as mobile telephone that is a member of a communication group of wireless communication devices that communicate with each other in direct group communications across a wireless communication network the at least one wireless communication device configured to selectively send group directed media to other members of the communication group . At least one communication computer device is configured to store information on communication groups on the wireless communication network the information including the identity of the specific member wireless communication devices of one or more communication groups. The communication computer device is further configured to selectively receive group directed media from a sending wireless communication device such as mobile telephone of a communication group and send the group directed media to the other member wireless communication devices of the communication group for the sending wireless communication device.

The system can further include a data store in communication with the communication computer device s with the communication computer device configured to send group directed media to the data store as is further described herein. The data store configured to receive the group designated media from the wireless communication device such as mobile phone and selectively permit members of the communication group for which the group directed media was sent to access the stored group directed media across the wireless communication network .

The group directed media can be graphic media such as pictures in JPEG TIF and the like audio files such as MP3 MP4 WAV and the like. The media can also be streaming media such as a multimedia application Powerpoint MOV file and the like and other application specific data or custom data for an application either resident at the wireless communication device or in communication therewith. The group directed media can also be streaming media or an interactive session on another computer device on the wireless communication network such as a game hosted on data store or private bulletin board. For example participants in a game can chat via the group communication about the ongoing game. Also the group directed media could be half duplex video conferencing among members of the communication group wherein the picture of the speaker is broadcast to the other group members in substantial real time or in delay.

The size of these media files can be very large and because of the potential delay of sending the media or inability of the receiving wireless communication device to handle the sent media the system can use a data store or file management server or other computer device to store the group directed media such that target members of the communication group can selectively access the stored media without interrupting other PTT communications. The data store can be configured to automatically send the group directed media to each of the member wireless devices of the communication group upon establishing a communication link therewith. Alternatively in one embodiment if the group directed media is stored at the data store the communication computer device or the data store can send a hyperlink to the other member wireless communication devices of the communication group that will provides a link to the stored group directed media at the data store . Upon receipt of the group directed media by at least one of the member wireless devices of the communication group the communication computer device can send to the wireless communication device sending the group directed media an acknowledgement that at least one member wireless communication device of the communication group received the group directed media.

The wireless communication device can send communication group identification data to the communication computer device at the time of requesting the group directed media to be sent e.g. send a target list and thus the group communication device will send or store the group directed media to the member wireless communication devices identified in the communication group identification data based upon a variety of criteria as is further discussed herein. Alternately prior to the wireless communication device sending group directed media the wireless communication device can request member data for a communication group from the communication computer device and the communication computer device can send one or more addresses or communication group addresses to the wireless communication device . In one embodiment the communication group computer device can filter the potential communication groups available based upon their member devices capability to received group directed media.

As is further described herein the wireless communication device can be engaged in a group communication with the member wireless communication devices of the communication group and send group directed media during the group communication in the same communication session or independently there from. Alternately the group directed media can be sent independently of the group communication session.

The group communication server s are connected to a wireless service provider s packet data service node PDSN such as PSDN shown here resident on a carrier network . Each PSDN can interface with a base station controller of a base station through a packet control function PCF . The PCF is typically located in the base station . The carrier network controls messages generally in the form of data packets sent to a messaging service controller MSC . The carrier network communicates with the MSC by a network the Internet and or POTS plain ordinary telephone system . Typically the network or Internet connection between the carrier network and the MSC transfers data and the POTS transfers voice information. The MSC can be connected to one or more base stations . In a similar manner to the carrier network the MSC is typically connected to the branch to source BTS by both the network and or Internet for data transfer and POTS for voice information. The BTS ultimately broadcasts and receives messages wirelessly to and from the wireless devices such as cellular telephones by short messaging service SMS or other over the air methods known in the art. It should also be noted that carrier boundaries and or PTT operator network boundaries do not inhibit or prohibit the sharing of data as described herein.

Cellular telephones and mobile telecommunication devices such as wireless telephone are being manufactured with increased computing capabilities and are becoming tantamount to personal computers and hand held PDAs. These smart cellular telephones allow software developers to create software applications that are downloadable and executable on the processor of the wireless device. The wireless device such as cellular telephone can download many types of applications such as web pages applets MIDlets games and data. In wireless devices that have designated a communication group the wireless communication device can directly connect with the other member of the set and engage in voice and data communication. However all such direct communications will occur through or at the control of the communication computer device . All data packets of the devices do not necessarily have to travel through the communication computer device itself but the communication computer device must be able to ultimately control the communication because it will typically be the only server side component that is aware of and or can retrieve the identity of the members of the communication group or direct the identity of the members of the communication group to another computer device.

As shown here the wireless device can be a mobile telephone with a graphics display but can also be any wireless device with a computer platform as known in the art such as a personal digital assistant PDA a pager with a graphics display or even a separate computer platform that has a wireless communication portal and may otherwise have a wired connection to a network or the Internet. Further the memory can be comprised of read only or random access memory RAM and ROM EPROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. The computer platform can also include a local database for storage of software applications not actively used in memory . The local database is typically comprised of one or more flash memory cells but can be any secondary or tertiary storage device as known in the art such as magnetic media EPROM EEPROM optical media tape or soft or hard disk. The graphics display can present not only information about the ongoing group call but also the information on the group directed media to include a file preview as is more fully described herein.

In this embodiment of the wireless device the computer platform also includes a direct communication interface that can open the direct communication channel from the wireless device. The direct communication interface can also be part of the standard communication interface for the wireless device which ordinarily carries the voice and data transmitted to and from the wireless device. The direct communication interface typically is comprised of hardware as is known in the art.

The PTT Client is an application that offers access to PTT services through an external interface here shown at a PTT aware VI . The PTT Client includes all the functions required to enable mobile operating system applications such as the Group Media Client . In addition to providing access to PTT services with the PTT Client the PTT Client preferably acts as an isolation layer between all PTT aware applications and the interface to the communication computer device . In this embodiment the PTT Client maintains access to PTT services responds to group communication requests processes all PTT aware mobile operating system applications requests for PTT services processes all outgoing PTT requests collects and packages vocoder packets for originating PTT talk spurts and parses packets of vocoder data for terminated PTT talk spurts.

The Group Media Client is a mobile operating system based application that extends PTT services for access to media types other than the traditional half duplex voice communications VoIP PTT media . The Group Media Client provides access to group media services through an external interface in one embodiment being a separate API such as a Group Media Aware API. The Group Media Aware VI is an application that may be developed entirely as a mobile operating system based application or used in combination with an AMSS interface. The Group Media Aware VI responds to user requests for group directed media services by invoking the appropriate APIs such as those from other resident PTT and group media applications . The Group Media Client services the requests from the user and informs the user the result of any group directed media request. The user can also have setting on the Group Media Client that specify how to handle an incoming notification that indicates there is a file to be downloaded from the file management server data store . For example the Group Media Client can elect to have the file download commence immediately or to allow the target user to be prompted to determine whether to download the file.

The target PTT Client verifies that the target user is available to participate in the call and that the Group Media Client associated with the group directed media application ID is present on the target client device. The target PTT Client sends an acknowledgement to the DCH indicating that the call has been accepted. Once the acknowledgement is received from the target PTT Client the DCH sends a floor grant message to the originating PTT Client which indicates the call is being established and the PTT Client can start collecting media. The PTT Client notifies the Group Media Client that the call setup was successful and group directed media can be sent. The PTT Client also notifies the user that the user can begin speaking. The PTT Client collects and buffers both the voice media the user s talk spurt and the group directed media that is received from the group Media Client . Once the MCU contact information message is received and acknowledged by the originating PTT Client the buffered media is sent to the MCU . The MCU waits for the target PTT Client s acknowledgment of the MCU contact information message prior to forwarding the media to the target. When the target PTT Client receives the media it may filter the media based on the synchronization source SSRC and payload type to process the PTT media correctly. The group directed media is forwarded to the Group Media Client which may also be responsible for processing that data.

The Group Media Client requests the PTT Client to add group directed media to the existing PTT call. The add media request contains an indication that the data is to be shared using the same floor control mechanism as the PTT Client . The PTT Client requests the MCV to add a new media type to the existing call. The MCV verifies that the PTT call participants can support the new media type e.g. contacts Group Media Client and notifies the call participants that a new media type is being added to the PTT call. After the new media type has been successfully added to the PTT call the user Group Media Client can request permission to talk and send group directed media at the same time. The Group Media Client notifies the PTT Client that a group directed media request has been received. The PTT Client requests permission to talk and send group directed media from the MCV . The MCV verifies the floor is available prior to granting the floor request. The PTT Client notifies the Group Media Client that the floor request was granted.

The Group Control Client requests that the PTT Client add a new media type to the existing PTT call. The add media requests contains an indication that the data is to be shared using a different floor control mechanism than the PTT call. The PTT Client requests the MCV to add a new media type to the existing call. The MCV verifies that all of the call participants can support the new media type and notifies the call participants that a new media type is being added to the call. In this embodiment the notification to the call participants contains a floor identifier for the group directed media floor in addition to a new destination port number on the MCV for the distribution of the group directed media. The PTT Client of the target device assigns a new media port for sending or receiving group directed media and sends the new port identifier in the acknowledgement to the MCV .

When the PTT Client receives the request to add new media the PTT Client verifies that the application associated with the group media application ID is available on the client. If the Group Media Client associated with the group media application ID is already active on the client the PTT Client sends a notification to the Group Media Client that media was added to an existing PTT call. If the application associated with the group media application ID is not already active on the target client the PTT Client requests the mobile operating system to start the appropriate application and then notifies the Group Media Client to prepare for incoming group directed media.

After the new media type is successfully added to the PTT call the user can request permission to send group directed media. The Group Media Client notifies the PTT Client that a group directed media send request has been received. The PTT Client requests permission to send group directed media from the MCV . The PTT request from the PTT Client contains the floor identifier assigned to the group directed media floor. The MCV verifies the data floor is available prior to granting the floor request. The PTT Client notifies the Group Media Client that the floor request was granted.

The DCH locates each of targets in the target list and formulates an incoming data notification for each target. The group directed media is embedded in the notification. The DCH sends the notification to each target. For targets that are registered on the local carrier network Local Gateway the notification is sent directly to the PTT Client at the target. For targets that are registered on a foreign carrier network the notification may be sent to the Foreign Regional Gateway which in turn converts the notification into a SIP Message method and the group directed media is included in body of the SIP Message. Each target determines whether to accept or reject the incoming data notification. The notification may be rejected if the Group Media Client target client cannot process the group directed media or the target user has placed a communication restriction on the originator of the data distribution request.

In the notification is assumed to be accepted by the targets. Because at least one target received the notification successfully the originator is notified that the group directed distribution was successful. When the PTT Client receives the notification with the group directed media the PTT Client examines the group media application ID which indicates the application that is to receive the group directed media. If the application associated with the group media application ID is already active on the client the PTT Client forwards the group directed media to the application. If the application associated with the group media application ID is not already active on the client the PTT Client requests the mobile operating system to start the Group Media Client and then forwards the group directed media. For targets that do not support processing the group directed media data type the DCH will not distribute the incoming data notification to targets that are incapable of processing the group directed media contained in the message. Optionally the DCH will remove the group directed media from the incoming data notification and send the revised notification to the targets that do not support the data type.

It should also be noted that Foreign Regional Gateway with another computer device such as desktop which could have a PTT client resident thereupon. The signaling between the Local Gateway and the Foreign Regional Gateway could be the same as the signaling between a Local Gateway and the PC Based client such as a Windows based client at a desktop laptop or other computer platform that could also have a wired connection 0 the Internet or other gateway. However the resident PTT Client at such computer platform is required to handle the half duplex communications in the group communication environment.

In this embodiment the user selects a list of target users to which the group directed media is to be delivered. In this scenario the group directed media selected is a large file. The user has also requested immediate delivery of the group directed media to the targets. The Group Media Client examines the delivery option specified in the request from the user and determines that the file is required to be delivered immediately. The Group Media Client compares the size of the file with the operator defined data distribution limit. Because the file size exceeds the data distribution limit the Group Media Client contacts the FMS data store to store the file with the target list. After the Group Media Client has successfully stored the file at the FMS the Group Media Client creates a preview of the original file. The Group Media Client then requests the PTT Client to deliver the preview of the group directed media file and the file descriptor to the specified list of targets.

The PTT Client verifies the preview data is small enough to fit into a VDP MTV containing the appropriate signaling header and the group direct media preview. The PTT Client requests that the DCH send an incoming data notification containing the preview and the file descriptor to the specified targets. The DCH locates each of targets in the target list and formulates an incoming data notification for each target. The group media preview data preview and the file descriptor is embedded in the notification. The DCH sends the notification to each target. Such notification can also include a hyperlink or other pointer to direct the target to the stored data. Each target determines whether to accept or reject the incoming data notification. The notification may be rejected if the target user has placed a communication restriction on the originator of the data distribution request. In this scenario the notification is accepted by the targets. Because at least one target received the notification successfully the originator is notified that notice of the group directed media distribution was successful.

When the PTT Client receives the notification with the preview the PTT Client examines the group media application ID which indicates the application that is to receive the group directed media. If the application associated with the group media application ID is already active on the client the PTT Client forwards the group directed media to the application. If the application associated with the incoming group directed media application is not already active on the client the PTT Client requests the mobile operating system to start the application and then forwards the group directed media onto the Group Media Client . When the Group Media Client receives the group directed media the Group Media Client determines whether to download the file containing the group directed media automatically as identified by the file descriptor in the data or to prompt the user to determine if they want a download. The Group Media Client can also download the preview file from the F MS .

If the Group Media Client is not configured to download the group directed media file automatically Group Directed Media VI prompts the user to download the file. When the user decides to download the file the Group Directed Media VI notifies the Group Media Client which proceeds to retrieve the file from the FMS . The FMS verifies the user is on the target list or file distribution list prior to allowing the file download to proceed. It should be noted that the download of the stored data need not to occur substantially instantaneously or only during a PTT communication but can occur at the discretion of the target user. Further other embodiments may use different methods to determine whether the user is allowed or authorized to download the file.

Otherwise for each member of the group who can receive the group directed media at decision a determination is then made as to whether the group directed media is too large to be directly sent as shown at decision . If the media is too large at the group directed media is sent to the data store as shown at step and the notice and link are sent to the target device as shown at step . Otherwise if the media is not too large to send at decision a determination is made as to whether the media is a correct type to send to the target member as shown at decision . If the media is not a type known as receivable by the target device then the group directed media is stored at the data store step and notice and link sent to the target device step . Otherwise if the group directed media is of a type that can be received by the target member the group directed media is sent to the member device s as shown at step . Then the process terminates termination after the group directed media is sent step or the notice and link have been sent to the target devices step .

It can be seen that system provide an inventive method for sharing media in a group communication among a plurality of wireless communications devices on a wireless communication network that in one embodiment includes receiving at a communication computer device group directed media sent from a wireless communication device to other members of the communication group . In one embodiment the communication computer device stores information including the member wireless communication devices of one or more communication groups and sending the group directed media from the communication computer device to one or more of the other member wireless communication devices of the communication group for the sending wireless communication device . If the system is embodied as including a data store such file management server which is in communication with the communication computer device the method further includes sending the group directed media from communication computer device to the data store the receiving the group designated media from the wireless communication device at the data store and selectively permitting members of the communication group for which the group directed media is being sent to access the stored group directed media across the wireless communication network .

In one embodiment the method can include sending communication group identification data from the wireless communication device to the communication computer device and then sending the group directed media from the group communication device to the member wireless communication devices identified in the communication group identification data. Alternately the wireless communication device can request member data for a communication group from the communication computer device prior to a wireless communication device sending group directed media and sending communication group identification data from the communication computer device to the requesting wireless communication device .

The sending of the group directed media can occur either during a group communication with the member wireless communication devices of the communication group or can occur outside the group communication as is shown in . Further the method can involve multiple determinations of whether or not to send the group directed media based upon the size of the data the ability of the target to view the data or the type of data being sent such as a link to an interactive computer session or other application. The method can also include upon receipt of the group directed media by at least one of the member wireless devices of the communication group sending an acknowledgement that at least one member wireless communication device of the communication group received the group directed media to the wireless communication device sending the group directed media such as shown in .

In view of the methods being executable on a mobile device and other computer platforms the method can accordingly be performed by a program resident in a computer readable medium where the program directs the mobile device or other computer device having a computer platform to perform the steps of the method. The computer readable medium can be the memory of the server or can be in a connective database. Further the computer readable medium can be in a secondary storage media that is loadable onto a wireless communications device computer platform such as a magnetic disk or tape optical disk hard disk flash memory or other storage media as is known in the art.

In one or more exemplary embodiments the functions described may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions may be stored on or transmitted over as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium. Computer readable media includes both computer storage media and communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A storage media may be any available media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Also any connection is properly termed a computer readable medium. For example if the software is transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of medium. Disk and disc as used herein includes compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

While the invention has been particularly shown and described with reference to a preferred embodiment thereof it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes in form and detail may be made without departing from the scope of the present invention as set forth in the following claims. Furthermore although elements of the invention may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated.

