---

title: Systems and methods for using active optical cable segments
abstract: First and second active optical modules that terminate first and second active optical cable segments, each of which having a respective active end and a respective passive end, can be authenticated by: reading information from active-end storage devices attached to the respective active ends of the first and second active optical modules; providing information read from the active-end storage devices to an aggregation point; reading information from passive-end storage devices attached to the respective passive ends of the first and second active optical cable segments; providing information read from passive-end storage devices to the aggregation point; and authenticating the first and second active optical modules using information provided to the aggregation point.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09038141&OS=09038141&RS=09038141
owner: ADC Telecommunications, Inc.
number: 09038141
owner_city: Berwyn
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121207
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 567 755 filed on Dec. 7 2011 which is hereby incorporated herein by reference.

For some high speed electronic devices also referred to here as host devices it is desirable to use fiber optic cabling for interconnecting the ports of such devices. Examples of host devices include switches routers gateways access points server computers end user computers appliance computers such as network attached storage NAS devices and nodes of a storage area network SAN . Typically using fiber optic cabling with such a host device requires the use of active optical components for example to perform electrical to optical E O and optical to electrical O E conversions necessary for signals to be sent and received by the host device over the passive fiber optic cabling .

However in some cases manufacturers of the host devices do not wish to include the active optical components in the host device itself. In these cases the host devices are designed to be used with active optical cables. An active optical cable includes in addition to the passive fiber optic cabling the active optical components that perform the E O and O E conversions necessary for signals to be sent and received by the host device over the passive fiber optic cabling. Traditionally each active optical cable comprises a matched pair of active optical modules that are designed to be used with a single segment of fiber optic cabling typically a duplex segment comprising two optical fibers . In one type of single segment active optical cable each of the matched pair of active optical modules is permanently attached to the single segment of fiber optic cabling. In another type of single segment active optical cable each of the matched pair of active optical modules includes an appropriate connector or other mechanism to removably attach the single segment of fiber optical cabling to the module. With this second type of active optical cable the fiber optic cabling used in the active optical cable can be changed for example to change between single mode fiber and multi mode fiber or to replace defective cabling . However with both types of active optical cables the active optical modules are designed to be used with a single segment of fiber optic cabling and the modules are designed to be together as a pair.

Each active optical module typically includes an optical transceiver a controller a storage device and an electrical connector. The electrical connector is connected to a port of a host device. Typically the host device and the active optical module exchange transmit and receive signals in electrical form typically as respective differential signal pairs . The optical transceiver in the active optical module handles the E O and E conversions necessary for the electrical transmit and receive signals. The interface implemented between the electrical connector and the port of the host device also includes appropriate power and ground lines for providing power and ground to the active components in the active optical module.

Manufacturers of some host devices require that when an active optical cable is used to connect a port of a first host device to a port of a second host device the active optical cable must first be authenticated before those ports can be enabled for use with that active optical cable. These ports are also referred to here as authenticated ports. This authentication is done for example to ensure that only active optical cables manufactured by an authorized manufacturer are used with the host devices.

The interface implemented between the authenticated ports of the host devices and the electrical connectors included in the active optical modules includes one or more signal lines over which data can be exchanged between a given host device and an active optical module that is connected to one of its authenticated ports. These lines are also referred to here as the control interface. In one example when an active optical module is connected to an authenticated port of a host device the host device uses the control interface to write challenge data to the storage device included in the active optical module. The controller in the active optical module then generates an encrypted response by encrypting the challenge data with a private key that is stored in the active optical module. The generated response data is stored in the storage device. The host device then uses the control interface to read the response data from the storage device along with a cable identifier using the control interface that is provided between the port and the electrical connector . The challenge data cable identifier and encrypted response data are provided to an authentication entity for example software that is a part of a network management system for authenticating the active optical module. The authentication entity uses the cable identifier to look up the private key assigned to the active optical module and then decrypts the encrypted response read from the storage device in the active optical module. If the decrypted response matches the challenge data that was encrypted the associated active optical module is considered to be successfully authenticated.

In some applications the active optical modules for both ends of the active optical cable must be authenticated before either of the two involved authenticated ports will be enabled for use with that active optical cable. As noted above the active optical modules used in a single segment active optical cable traditionally are a matched pair in that they are designed to always be used together as a part of the same single segment active optical cable. For example both of the active optical modules can be assigned the same cable or module identifier or can be assigned different module identifiers that are associated with one another a priori by the authentication entity. This is the case regardless of whether the single segment of fiber optic cabling used with such active optical cables is permanently or removably attached to the active optical modules. As a result it is typically not difficult for the authentication entity to determine which active optical modules are associated with one another for the purposes of authentication. This approach where both active optical modules that are being authenticated for use with two authenticated ports would not be suitable however where the two active optical modules are not a matched pair that is a part of the same single element active optical cable.

One embodiment is directed to a method of authenticating first and second active optical modules that terminate first and second active optical cable segments each of which having a respective active end and a respective passive end. The method comprises reading information from active end storage devices attached to the respective active ends of the first and second active optical modules providing information read from the active end storage devices to an aggregation point reading information from passive end storage devices attached to the respective passive ends of the first and second active optical cable segments providing information read from passive end storage devices to the aggregation point and authenticating the first and second active optical modules using information provided to the aggregation point.

Another embodiment is directed to a system for use with a first and second active optical cable segment each of the first and second active optical cable segments having a respective active end and a passive end. The system comprises first and second host devices the first host device having a first authenticated port and the second host device having a second authenticated port. The first authenticated port is configured so that a respective electrical connector terminating the respective active end of the first active optical cable segment can be coupled to the first authenticated port wherein the first authenticated port is also configured to provide access to a first active end storage device associated with the active end of the first active optical cable segment when the first active optical cable segment is coupled to the first authenticated port. The second authenticated port is configured so that a respective electrical connector terminating a respective active end of a second active optical cable segment can be coupled to the second authenticated port wherein the second authenticated port is also configured to provide access to a second active end storage device associated with the active end of the second active optical cable segment when the second active optical cable segment is coupled to the second authenticated port. The system further comprises first and second passive optical interconnects. The first passive optical interconnect comprises a first port and the second passive optical interconnect comprises a second port. The first port is configured so that a respective passive optical connector terminating the respective passive end of the first active optical cable segment can be coupled to the first port wherein the first port is also configured to provide access to a first passive end storage device associated with the passive end of the first active optical cable segment when the first active optical cable segment is coupled to the first port. The second port is configured so that a respective optical passive connector terminating the respective passive end of the second active optical cable segment can be coupled to the second port wherein the second port is also configured to provide access to a second passive end storage device associated with the passive end of the second active optical cable segment when the second active optical cable segment is coupled to the second port. The first and second ports are communicatively coupled to one another via one or more other cable segments. An active optical communication path can be established between the first authenticated port and the second authenticated port using the first active optical cable segment the second active optical cable segment and one or more passive cable segments. The system further comprises an aggregation point that is communicatively coupled to the first and second host devices and the first and second passive optical interconnects. The aggregation point is configured to receive information read from the first and second active end storage devices attached to the first and second active optical cable segments respectively information read from the first and second passive end storage devices attached to the first and second active optical cable segments respectively and information about the one or more other cable segments used to establish the active optical communication path between the first and second authenticated ports. The system further comprises an aggregation point that is communicatively coupled to the aggregation point and the first and second host devices wherein information indicative of the active optical communication path is communicated from the aggregation point to the authentication entity in connection with authenticating the first and second active optical cable segments for use with the first and second authenticated ports.

Another embodiment is directed to a cable comprising at least a first optical fiber extending from a first end to a second end and an active optical component terminating the first end of the first optical fiber. The active optical component includes an electrical connector configured to receive electrical signals converted from optical signals carried over the first optical fiber. The active optical component includes a first storage device that is electrically connected to the electrical connector. A fiber optic connector terminates the second end of the first optical fiber. The fiber optic connector includes an optical ferrule that is configured to receive optical signals carried over the first optical fiber. The fiber optic connector includes a second storage device and a media reading interface that are isolated from the optical signals carried over the first optical fiber. The second storage device is electrically connected to the media reading interface.

In this example the active optical modules that are used to connect two host devices are not part of the same single segment active optical cable unlike with the conventional active optical cable products described above. Instead as described in more detail below the ports of the host devices are connected to one another using multiple segments of cabling including both active segments and using one or more fiber patch panels or other passive optical interconnects . In certain implementations passive segments also may extend between the patch panels to connect the segments . In this way the benefits of using fiber patch panels for example increased or improved flexibility range slack and length management and convenience in making moves adds and changes can be obtained when using active optical modules .

However because the active optical modules that are used to connect two host devices are not part of the same single segment active optical cable and are not a matched pair the active optical modules will not be assigned the same cable or module identifier or otherwise be associated with one another a priori and the authentication entity that authenticates the active optical modules for use with those host devices will need additional information in order to associate the two active optical modules with one another.

In this example the cable segments that are directly connected to the ports of the host devices are referred to here as the active optical cable segments .

One example of an active optical cable segment suitable for use in the example shown in is shown in more detail in . The active optical cable segment shown in is a full duplex cable having a pair of fibers though it is to be understood that the techniques described here can be used with other types of active optical cables segments such as half duplex cable segments and or half duplex cable segments and or full duplex cable segments that implement more than one half duplex or full duplex optical channel .

Each active optical cable segment has an active end and a passive end . Each active optical cable segment includes an active optical module that is attached to the active end of that active optical cable segment more specifically to the active end of the fiber pair used in the active optical cable segment . Each active optical module also includes a passive optical connector that is attached to the passive end of the active optical cable segment more specifically to the passive end of the fiber pair used in the active optical cable segment .

Each active optical module includes an electrical connector by which transmit and receive signals are input and output in electrical form typically as respective differential signal pairs to and from the active optical module . The electrical connector also includes appropriate power and ground lines for providing power and ground to the active components in the active optical module . In the example shown in the active optical module is a Gigabit ETHERNET active optical module that implements one or more of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 802.3 family of standards relating to 10 or 40 Gigabit ETHERNET. In this example the electrical connector is implemented as an edge type connector having contact traces for each of the lines required by the Gigabit ETHERNET standards relating to electrical Gigabit ETHERNET connectors that is TX and TX contact traces for the transmit differential signal pair and RX and RX contact traces for the receive differential signal pair . The electrical connector also includes contact traces for power PWR and GND lines for providing power and ground to the components of the active optical module .

Each active optical module includes the active optical components that perform the electrical to optical E O and optical to electrical O E conversions necessary for signals to be sent and received over the fiber pair . In the example shown in the active optical module includes an optical transceiver . The optical transceiver comprises a receiver circuit that receives a first optical signal from a first one of the optical fibers and produces a first received electrical signal from the first optical signal suitable for outputting from the electrical connector . The optical transceiver further comprises a transmitter circuit that receives the electrical transmit signal from the electrical connector and outputs a second transmit optical signal for communicating over the second one of the optical fibers . As noted above in this example the received electrical signal is output on the electrical connector as a differential pair of electrical signals RX and RX that complies with one or more of the IEEE 802.3 family of standards relating to 10 or 40 Gigabit ETHERNET. Likewise the transmit electrical signal to be transmitted on the active optical cable segment is supplied on the electrical connector as a differential pair of electrical signals TX and TX that complies with one or more of the IEEE 802.3 family of standards relating to 10 or 40 Gigabit ETHERNET.

Although the example shown in is described here as being implemented using Gigabit ETHERNET technology the techniques described here can be used with other communication technology. For example and without limitation the techniques described here can be used to implement active optical modules and active optical cable segments that use one or more of FIBRE CHANNEL INFINIBAND Serial Attached SCSI SAS and SONET SDH technology.

In this example each active optical module also includes a storage device also referred to here as an active end storage device and a controller . The electrical connector in each active optical module is configured to include a control interface via which the controller and the active end storage device can be accessed. In the particular example shown in the control interface implemented by the electrical connector includes one data contact trace DATA and one clock contact trace CLK over which data and clock signals are exchanged between the host device and the controller and the active end storage device in the active optical module . However it is to be understood that the control interface implemented by the electrical connector can be implemented in other ways.

As shown in each active optical cable segment also includes a passive optical connector at the passive end of the active optical cable segment . One example of a passive optical connector is a duplex LC or SC fiber connector. In this example each passive optical connector includes or is otherwise associated with a storage device which is also referred to here as the passive end storage device . The passive optical connector is configured to include a storage device interface via which the passive end storage device can be accessed. This storage device interface is also referred to here as the passive end storage device interface which can also be implemented by incorporating appropriate electrical contacts in the passive optical connector .

Various examples of passive end storage device interfaces are described in United States Patent Publication No. US 2011 0116748 filed Oct. 15 2010 and titled MANAGED CONNECTIVITY IN FIBER OPTIC SYSTEMS AND METHODS THEREOF U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 025 841 filed on Feb. 11 2011 titled MANAGED FIBER CONNECTIVITY SYSTEMS and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 025 750 filed on Feb. 11 2011 titled COMMUNICATIONS BLADED PANEL SYSTEMS U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 152 624 filed on Feb. 13 2009 titled MANAGED CONNECTIVITY SYSTEMS AND METHODS and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 705 497 filed on Feb. 12 2010 titled AGGREGATION OF PHYSICAL LAYER INFORMATION RELATED TO A NETWORK all of which are hereby incorporated herein by reference. In some of these examples a four line storage device interface is used where the interface includes a single data line for reading and writing data a power line for providing power to the storage device a ground line for providing a ground level and an extra line reserved for future use. Also in these examples a storage device that supports the UNI O bus protocol is used where the UNI O bus protocol is used for communicating over the single data lead.

In the example shown in the system is described here as including two host devices that are implemented as Gigabit ETHERNET switches though the system can include more than two switches and or different types of host devices . Consequently the two host devices shown in . are also referred to here as switches . Examples of other types of host devices that can be used include without limitation routers gateways access points server computers end user computers appliance computers such as network attached storage NAS devices and nodes of a storage area network SAN . Also in the example shown in the system includes two passive optical interconnects that are implemented as two fiber patch panels though the system can include a different number of fiber patch panels and or different types of passive optical interconnects . Consequently the two passive optical interconnects shown in . are also referred to here as fiber patch panels . Examples of other types of passive optical interconnects that can be used include without limitation other types of optical patch panels fiber distribution hubs FDH fiber splice panels fiber trays and fiber termination points. Examples of active optical modules and active optical cable segments include without limitation GIGABIT ETHERNET FIBRE CHANNEL INFINIBAND Serial Attached SCSI SAS and SONET SDH active optical modules or active optical cable segments.

Many types of host devices and passive optical interconnects include multiple ports though the techniques described here are not limited to host devices or passive optical interconnects that include multiple ports.

In this example any active optical modules which are attached to the active optical cable segments must be authenticated before the ports can be enabled for use with those active optical modules . Consequently the ports of the switches are also referred to here as authenticated ports .

In the example shown in an authenticated port of a first one of the two switches is connected to an authenticated port of a second one of the two switches using two active optical cable segments . For ease of explanation the first one of the two switches is also referred to here as the first switch the corresponding authenticated port is also referred to here as the first authenticated port . The active optical module and active optical cable segment attached to the first authenticated port are also referred to here as the first active optical module and the first active optical cable segment respectively. Similarly the second one of the two switches is also referred to here as the second switch the corresponding authenticated port is also referred to here as the second authenticated port . The active optical module and active optical cable segment attached to the second authenticated port are also referred to here as the second active optical module and the second active optical cable segment respectively.

In the example shown in each of the ports of the switches are configured to include a control interface not separately shown . The control interface in the ports is configured to mate with and inter operate with the control interface used in the electrical connectors attached to each of the active optical modules . Software executing on a programmable processor such as a controller associated with each switch is able to read and write data to the active end storage device included in each active optical module that is attached to a given port using that port s control interface. The software and programmable processor are implemented in a conventional manner except as described here.

In the example shown in the passive optical connector at the passive end of the first active optical cable segment is connected to a full duplex port of one of the two fiber patch panels . This fiber patch panel is also referred to here as the first patch panel and the port to which the first active optical cable segment is connected is also referred to here as the first patch panel port . The passive optical connector at the passive end of the second active optical cable segment is connected to a full duplex port of the second of the two fiber patch panels . This fiber patch panel is also referred to here as the second patch panel and the port to which the second active optical cable segment is connected is also referred to here as the second patch panel port .

In the example shown in each of the patch panel ports of the fiber patch panels are configured to include a storage device interface not separately shown . The storage device interface in each port is configured to mate and inter operate with the storage device interface used in the passive optical connector attached to the passive end of a given active optical cable segment . Software executing on a programmable processor such as a controller associated with the fiber patch panel is able to read and write data from and to the passive end storage device associated with any passive optical connector that is connected to a given port using that port s storage device interface. The software and programmable processor can be implemented in the manner described in the aforementioned US provisional patent applications and US non provisional patent applications.

In this example each patch panel port in the first fiber patch panel is communicatively coupled to a respective patch panel port in the second fiber patch panel via an optical trunk cable . The optical trunk cable is a multiple fiber cable where each duplex port of each of the fiber patch panels is connected to a respective pair of fibers in the trunk cable . The trunk cable includes a multi fiber connector for example a suitable MPO or MTP connector at each end of the cable . Each fiber patch panel includes a trunk connector for example a suitable MPO or MTP connector designed to be connected to the multi fiber connector attached to the trunk cable . However it is to be understood that patch panel ports in the first fiber patch panel can be communicatively coupled to respective patch panel ports in the second fiber patch panel in other ways. For example an optical patch cable comprising a pair of optical fibers terminated with a pair of connectors such as LC or SC connectors can be used to communicatively couple pairs of duplex ports of the patch panels to one another.

In this example each multi fiber connector attached to the optical trunk cable also includes or is otherwise associated with a respective storage device and the connectors and include or are otherwise associated with a respective storage device interface not shown by which the software running on each fiber patch panel can read and write data to the storage device . The storage devices that are included in or otherwise associated with the multi fiber connectors attached to the trunk cable are also referred to here as the trunk cable storage devices . The storage device interface can implemented as described in the manner described in the aforementioned US provisional patent applications and US non provisional patent applications.

In other implementations the trunk cable plugged into the first patch panel is different from the trunk cable plugged into the second patch panel . In some implementations the two trunk cables may be connected at a third patch panel. In other implementations the two trunk cables may be connected using a panel network of multiple patch panels and trunk cables. In still other implementations multiple trunk cables may extend between the first and second patch panels . For example in some implementations multiple single optical fiber cables may extend between the patch panels or panel network. In other implementations multiple multi fiber cables may extend between the patch panels or panel network.

Non limiting examples of patch panels suitable for use as panels are shown and disclosed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 025 750 and United States Publication No. US 2011 0116748 which were incorporated by reference above. Other non limiting examples of patch panels suitable for use as panels are shown and disclosed in United States Publication No. US 2011 0115494 A1 filed Oct. 19 2010 and titled MANAGED ELECTRICAL CONNECTIVITY SYSTEMS U.S. application Ser. No. 12 905 689 filed Oct. 15 2010 and titled MANAGED CONNECTIVITY IN ELECTRICAL SYSTEMS AND METHODS THEREOF U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 295 742 filed on Nov. 14 2011 and titled CABLE MANAGEMENT IN RACK SYSTEMS U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 466 696 filed Mar. 23 2011 and titled CABLE MANAGEMENT IN RACK SYSTEMS U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 476 041 filed Apr. 15 2011 and titled MANAGED ELECTRICAL CONNECTIVITY SYSTEMS and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 446 574 filed Apr. 13 2012 and titled MANAGED ELECTRICAL CONNECTIVITY SYSTEMS the disclosures of which are hereby incorporated by reference herein in their entirety.

In the example shown in the first and second authenticated ports of the first and second switches are communicatively coupled to one another by connecting the electrical connector attached to the active end of the first active optical cable segment to the first authenticated port connecting the passive optical connector attached to the passive end of the first active optical cable segment to the first patch panel port connecting the passive optical connector attached to the passive end of the second active optical cable segment to the second patch panel port and connecting the electrical connector attached to the active end of the second active optical cable segment to the second authenticated port . In this example the trunk cable attached to the trunk connectors of the first and second fiber patch panels communicatively couples the first patch panel port and the second patch panel port to one another. In this way the first and second authenticated ports of the first and second switches are communicatively coupled to another.

In the example shown in the system further comprises an aggregation point and an authentication entity . The aggregation point authentication entity switches and fiber patch panels communicate with one another over a network . The computers on which the aggregation point and authentication entity are implemented include an appropriate network interface to communicatively couple those computers to the network . In the example shown in the programmable processors and in the switches and fiber patch panels respectively are communicatively coupled to the network by including a respective management or non service port that is separate from the service ports and . However one or more of the programmable processors and in the switches and fiber patch panels respectively can be communicatively coupled to the network using one or more of the service ports and .

In one embodiment the network comprises an INTERNET PROTOCOL network. The network can be implemented using one or more of a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN the INTERNET a virtual local area network VLAN and a virtual private network VPN an enterprise network and a telecommunication service provider network. Moreover the switches and fiber patch panels can be a part of the equipment used to implement the network .

The authentication entity is typically implemented in software that runs on a computer that is coupled to the network . In one embodiment the authentication entity is implemented as software that runs on a server maintained by the manufacture of the switches or the active optical cable segments . In another embodiment the authentication entity is implemented as software that runs on a computer that is local with respect to the switches for example on a computer that is also running a network management system for the network that the switches are a part of . In another embodiment the authentication entity is implemented as software that runs on the switches themselves.

In this example the switches communicate with the authentication entity using a suitable communication protocol such as the Simple Network Management Protocol SNMP . For example when the first active optical module is connected to the first authenticated port of the first switch the software executing on the first switch sends a message informing the authentication entity of that fact and including information that the authentication entity uses in authenticating the first active optical module as described in more detail below. Examples of such information include a segment or module identifier challenge data and encrypted response data. Then after performing the authentication processing described below is completed the authentication entity can send a response to the first switch either enabling or disabling the first authenticated port depending on whether both the first and second active optical modules were successfully authenticated.

The aggregation point is typically implemented as software that runs on a computer that is coupled to the network .

The aggregation point is configured to receive physical layer information pertaining to various devices and media used to implement the physical layer in the network not just the active optical cable segments . The physical layer information PLI includes information about various devices in the network for example information about the switches and fiber patch panels also referred to here as device information as well as information about any segments of physical communication media attached to the ports of those devices also referred to here as media information . The device information includes for example an identifier for each device a type identifier that identifies the device s type and port information that includes information about the device s ports. The media information includes information that is read from storage devices that are attached to various segments of physical communication media for example from storage devices that are attached to the active optical cable segments and the optical trunk cables .

Examples of media information that can be stored in such storage devices include without limitation an identifier that uniquely identifies that particular segment of physical communication media similar to an ETHERNET Media Access Control MAC address but associated with the physical communication media and or connector attached to the physical communication media a part number a plug or other connector type a cable or fiber type and length a serial number a cable polarity a date of manufacture a manufacturing lot number information about one or more visual attributes of physical communication media or a connector attached to the physical communication media such as information about the color or shape of the physical communication media or connector or an image of the physical communication media or connector and other information used by an Enterprise Resource Planning ERP system or inventory control system. In other embodiments alternate or additional data is stored in such storage devices. For example testing media quality or performance information can be stored in such storage devices. The testing media quality or performance information for example can be the results of testing that is performed when a particular segment of media is manufactured or installed.

The media information can also include information about physical communication media that does not have any storage devices attached to it. This latter type of media information can be manually supplied to the aggregation point .

The aggregation point includes a database or other data store not shown for storing the physical layer information provided to it. The aggregation point also includes functionality that provides an interface for external devices or entities to access the physical layer information maintained by the aggregation point . This access can include retrieving information from the aggregation point as well as supplying information to the aggregation point . In this example the aggregation point is implemented as middleware that is able to provide such external devices and entities with transparent and convenient access to the PLI maintained by the aggregation point . Because the aggregation point aggregates PLI from the relevant devices in the network and provides external devices and entities with access to such PLI the external devices and entities do not need to individually interact with all of the devices in the network that provide PLI nor do such devices need to have the capacity to respond to requests from such external devices and entities.

The aggregation point in this example implements an application programming interface API by which application layer functionality can gain access to the physical layer information maintained by the aggregation point using a software development kit SDK that describes and documents the API.

More information about physical layer information and the aggregation point can be found in U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 152 624 filed on Feb. 13 2009 titled MANAGED CONNECTIVITY SYSTEMS AND METHODS and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 705 497 filed on Feb. 12 2010 titled AGGREGATION OF PHYSICAL LAYER INFORMATION RELATED TO A NETWORK both of which are hereby incorporated herein by reference.

One example of a method of authenticating one or more active optical modules is shown in . The example shown in is described here as being implemented in the example system shown in though it is to be understood that method can be implemented and used in other ways.

Method comprises reading information from the active end storage device attached to each of the first and second active optical modules block shown in and providing at least some of the read information along with information about the switch and the authenticated ports to the aggregation point block . Method further comprises receiving this information at the aggregation point and adding it to the database maintained by the aggregation point block . In this example when the electrical connector attached to each of the first and second active optical modules is attached to the first and second authenticated ports respectively the software associated with the respective switch first writes challenge data to the associated active end storage device using the control interface implemented between that electrical connector and that authenticated port . Then the controller in that active optical module encrypts the challenge data in order to produce an encrypted response which the controller then writes to the active end storage device . The software associated with the switch then uses the control interface implemented between the electrical connector and the authenticated port to read the encrypted response from the active end storage device along with one or more identifiers for example a module or segment identifier that identify the active optical module and or the active optical cable segment . The software executing on that switch sends a message to the authentication entity that informs the authentication entity that the active optical module has been attached to that authenticated port and that includes information identifying the active optical module and or active optical cable segment of which it is a part the switch and the authenticated port for example by providing a module or segment identifier switch identifier and a port identifier along with the challenge data and encrypted response data.

Also the software executing on that switch provides information identifying the active optical module and or active optical cable segment of which it is a part the switch and the authenticated port for example by providing a module or segment identifier switch identifier and a port identifier to the aggregation point . As is noted below the information that is provided to the aggregation point to identify the active optical module and or the active optical cable segment of which it is a part the switch and or the authenticated port may not be the same as the identifier information provided to and used by the authentication entity to identify those things for example because the manufacture of the switch or the active optical module wishes for such information to remain confidential .

The processing associated with blocks is performed for each of the first and second authenticated ports .

Method further comprises reading information from the passive end storage device attached to the passive end of each of the first and second active optical cable segments block and providing the read information along with information about the associated fiber patch panel and patch panel port to the aggregation point block . Method further comprises receiving this information at the aggregation point and adding it to the database maintained by the aggregation point block . In this example when the passive optical connector attached to the passive end of each of the first and second active optical cable segments is attached to each of the first and second patch panel ports respectively the software associated with the respective fiber patch panel reads information from the associated passive end storage device using the storage device interface implemented between that passive optical connector and that patch panel port and communicates the read information to the aggregation point . In association with the information read from the passive end storage device the software communicates information about the fiber patch panel and the patch panel port to the aggregation point . The aggregation point receives this information and adds it to the database it maintains.

The information read from the passive end storage device can include for example an identifier for the active optical cable segment and or an identifier that identifies the active optical module that is attached to the active end of that active optical cable segment . Also the information read from the passive end storage device can include other information about the active optical cable segment the associated active optical module or passive optical connector . Other examples of media information that can be read from the storage device are described above. The information read from the passive end storage device is provided to the aggregation point along with information that identifies the fiber patch panel and the patch panel port for example by including a patch panel identifier and a port identifier . The information about the fiber patch panel that is provided to the aggregation point includes in this example a port map that associates each patch panel port with one of the fiber pairs in the optical trunk cable .

The processing associated with blocks is performed for each of the first and second patch panel ports .

Method further comprises reading information from each trunk cable storage device attached to the optical trunk cable block and providing to the aggregation point the read information along with information about the associated fiber patch panel and associated trunk connector block . Method further comprises receiving this information at the aggregation point and adding it to the database maintained by the aggregation point block .

In this example when the multi fiber connector attached to each end of the trunk cable is connected to the trunk connector of each of the first and second fiber patch panels the software associated with that respective fiber patch panel reads information from the associated trunk cable storage device using the storage device interface implemented between the connectors and and communicates the read information to the aggregation point . In association with the information read from trunk cable storage device the software communicates to the aggregation point information that associates that optical trunk cable and the associated multi fiber connector with the trunk connector it is inserted into and the associated fiber patch panel . The aggregation point receives this information and adds it to the database it maintains.

The information read from the trunk cable storage device can include for example an identifier for the trunk cable . Also the information read from the trunk cable storage device can include other information about the trunk cable or the associated multi fiber connector . Other examples of media information that can be read from the trunk cable storage device are described above. The information read from the trunk cable storage device is provided to the aggregation point along with information that identifies the fiber patch panel and the trunk connector for example by including a patch panel identifier and a trunk connector identifier .

Although blocks blocks and are arranged sequentially in it is to be understood that the processing associated with those blocks can occur in any order depending on when the respective connectors are inserted. For example where the fiber patch panels are first installed and coupled to one another using the optical trunk cable followed by the electrical connectors attached to the first and second active optical modules being attached to the first and second authenticated ports respectively and followed by the passive optical connectors attached to the passive ends of each of the first and second active optical cable segments being attached to each of the first and second patch panel ports respectively the processing associated with blocks will be performed first followed by the processing associated with blocks and then followed by the processing associated with blocks .

Method further comprises associating the first active optical module with the second active optical module using the information provided to the aggregation point block shown in . As noted above in this example when an active optical module is attached to an authenticated port of a switch the software associated with that switch sends the authentication entity a message that informs the authentication entity that the active optical module has been attached to that authenticated port and that includes information identifying the active optical module and or active optical cable segment of which it is a part the switch and the authenticated port for example by providing a module or segment identifier switch identifier and a port identifier along with the challenge data and encrypted response data. In response to receiving such a message the authentication entity then sends a request to the aggregation point asking the aggregation point to identify the other end of the logical communication path that the identified active optical module is a port of. This request includes the switch identifier and port identifier used by the aggregation point to identify that switch and port .

The aggregation point responds to such a request by using the information it maintains in its database to walk or trace the communication path formed from that authenticated port to the other end of the logical communication path of which the identified active optical module is a part. This information includes information that was previously communicated to the aggregation point from the switches fiber patch panels etc. and stored in the database

In this example the aggregation point is able to associate the first active optical module with the first passive optical connector based on the segment identifier that is stored in both the active end storage device and the passive end storage device . As noted above this information was communicated to the aggregation point in connection with the processing described above in connection with blocks .

The aggregation point is able to associate the first passive optical connector and therefore the first active optical module with the first patch panel port based on the information provided to it by the first patch panel which associates the connector identifier for the first passive optical connector with the port identifier for the first patch panel port . Also the port map for the first fiber patch panel provided to the aggregation point by the first patch panel is used to associate the first fiber patch panel port and therefore the first passive optical connector and the first active optical module to one of the fiber pairs in the optical trunk cable . Likewise the port map for the second fiber patch panel provided to the aggregation point by the second fiber patch panel is used to associate that fiber pair in the optical trunk cable with the second patch panel port of the second fiber patch panel . The aggregation point is able to associate the second patch panel port and therefore the first patch panel port the first passive optical connector and the first active optical module with the passive optical connector attached to the second active optical cable segment . The aggregation point does this using the information provided to it by the second fiber patch panel which associates the port identifier for the second patch panel port with the segment identifier for the second active optical cable segment .

The aggregation point is able to associate the passive optical connector attached to the second active optical cable segment to the second active optical module attached to the active end of the second active optical cable segment based on the module or segment identifier that is stored in both the active end storage device and the passive end storage device that are attached to the second active optical cable segment . As noted above this information was communicated to the aggregation point in connection with the processing described above in connection with blocks . The aggregation point is able to associate the second active optical cable segment and the second active optical module attached thereto to the second authenticated port based on the information provided to it by the second switch which associates the module or segment identifier for the second active optical module and or the active optical cable segment of which it is part with the port identifier for the second authenticated port .

In this way the aggregation point is able to associate the first active optical module with the second active optical module . The aggregation point responds to the request from the authentication point by sending a message that identifies the second active optical module as being at the other end of the logical communication path that the first active optical module is a part of.

Method further comprises authenticating the first and second active optical modules using the authentication information block . In this example the authentication entity authenticates each of the first and second active optical modules by using the associated segment identifier for that module to look up the private key assigned to the module decrypting the encrypted response data using that private key and then comparing the decrypted response data to the challenge data. If the decrypted response data matches the challenge data that module is considered authentic.

Method further comprises enabling the first and second authenticated ports for use with the first and second active optical modules if both of the first and second active optical modules are successfully authenticated block . In this example if both the first and second active optical modules are successfully authenticated by the authentication entity the authentication entity sends messages to both the first and second switches instructing those switches to enable the first and second authenticated ports respectively. In this example if either one of the first and second active optical modules is not successfully authenticated by the authentication entity the authentication entity sends messages to both the first and second switches instructing those switches to not enable or to disable the first and second authenticated ports respectively.

In some situations the manufacturer of the switches and or the active optical module may not want the identifiers used in authenticating the active optical module to be used for other purposes including for the purpose of the aggregation point associating one active optical module with another active optical module .

To address this the segment identifier that is stored in the passive end storage device and used by the aggregation point to identify the active optical module can comprise a predetermined bit sequence that is derived from a fixed part of the encrypted data stored in the active end storage device . This predetermined bit sequence can be a subset of the fixed part of the encrypted data or can be generated from the fixed part of the encrypted data or a subset thereof for example using a hash function .

This predetermined bit sequence need only be sufficient to uniquely identify the active optical module and the associated active optical cable segment and it does not need to correspond to the identifier used by the authentication entity in authenticating the active optical module . In this way the aggregation point will be able to uniquely identify each active optical cable segment and active optical modules while preserving the secrecy of the identifiers used for authenticating the active optical modules .

A number of embodiments have been described. Nevertheless it will be understood that various modifications to the described embodiments may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the claimed invention.

Example 1 includes a method of authenticating first and second active optical modules that terminate first and second active optical cable segments each of which having a respective active end and a respective passive end the method comprising reading information from active end storage devices attached to the respective active ends of the first and second active optical modules providing information read from the active end storage devices to an aggregation point reading information from passive end storage devices attached to the respective passive ends of the first and second active optical cable segments providing information read from passive end storage devices to the aggregation point and authenticating the first and second active optical modules using information provided to the aggregation point.

Example 2 includes the method of Example 1 wherein the passive end of the first active optical cable segment is connected to a first port of a first passive optical interconnect and wherein the passive end of the second active optical cable segment is connected to a second port of a second passive optical interconnect.

Example 3 includes the method of Example 2 wherein the first and second passive optical interconnect are communicatively coupled to one another using a trunk cable wherein the method further comprises providing information about the trunk cable to the aggregation point.

Example 4 includes a system for use with a first and second active optical cable segment each of the first and second active optical cable segments having a respective active end and a passive end the system comprising first and second host devices the first host device having a first authenticated port and the second host device having a second authenticated port wherein the first authenticated port is configured so that a respective electrical connector terminating the respective active end of the first active optical cable segment can be coupled to the first authenticated port wherein the first authenticated port is also configured to provide access to a first active end storage device associated with the active end of the first active optical cable segment when the first active optical cable segment is coupled to the first authenticated port and wherein the second authenticated port is configured so that a respective electrical connector terminating a respective active end of a second active optical cable segment can be coupled to the second authenticated port wherein the second authenticated port is also configured to provide access to a second active end storage device associated with the active end of the second active optical cable segment when the second active optical cable segment is coupled to the second authenticated port wherein the system further comprises first and second passive optical interconnects the first passive optical interconnect comprising a first port and the second passive optical interconnect comprising a second port wherein the first port is configured so that a respective passive optical connector terminating the respective passive end of the first active optical cable segment can be coupled to the first port wherein the first port is also configured to provide access to a first passive end storage device associated with the passive end of the first active optical cable segment when the first active optical cable segment is coupled to the first port wherein the second port is configured so that a respective optical passive connector terminating the respective passive end of the second active optical cable segment can be coupled to the second port wherein the second port is also configured to provide access to a second passive end storage device associated with the passive end of the second active optical cable segment when the second active optical cable segment is coupled to the second port wherein the first and second ports are communicatively coupled to one another via one or more other cable segments and wherein an active optical communication path can be established between the first authenticated port and the second authenticated port using the first active optical cable segment the second active optical cable segment and one or more passive cable segments wherein the system further comprises an aggregation point that is communicatively coupled to the first and second host devices and the first and second passive optical interconnects wherein the aggregation point is configured to receive information read from the first and second active end storage devices attached to the first and second active optical cable segments respectively information read from the first and second passive end storage devices attached to the first and second active optical cable segments respectively and information about the one or more other cable segments used to establish the active optical communication path between the first and second authenticated ports and wherein the system further comprises an aggregation point that is communicatively coupled to the aggregation point and the first and second host devices wherein information indicative of the active optical communication path is communicated from the aggregation point to the authentication entity in connection with authenticating the first and second active optical cable segments for use with the first and second authenticated ports.

Example 5 includes the system of Example 4 wherein the information read from the first and second active end storage devices attached to the first and second active optical cable segments respectively includes encrypted authentication information.

Example 6 includes the system of Example 5 wherein each of the first and second host devices is configured to do the following in connection with reading the encrypted authentication information from the first and second active end storage devices respectively write respective challenge data to the first or second active end storage device respectively read a respective encrypted response from the first or second active end storage device respectively wherein the respective encrypted response is generated and stored in the first or second active end storage device by the first or second active optical cable segment by encrypting the respective challenge data using a respective private key.

Example 7 includes the system of any of Examples 4 6 wherein the host devices comprises one or more of switches routers gateways access points server computers end user computers appliance computers network attached storage NAS devices and nodes of a storage area network SAN .

Example 8 includes the system of any of Examples 4 7 wherein the passive optical interconnects comprise at least one of fiber patch panels fiber distribution hubs FDH fiber splice panels fiber trays and fiber termination points.

Example 9 includes the system of any of Examples 4 8 wherein each active optical cable segment comprises one or more optical fibers an active optical module at the active end of the optical fibers a passive optical connector at the passive end of the optical fibers.

Example 10 includes the system of any of the Examples 49 wherein each active optical module comprises an optical transceiver a controller the active end storage device and an electrical connector.

Example 11 includes the system of any of Examples 4 10 wherein the first and second passive optical interconnects comprise first and second fiber patch panels respectively including the first and second ports respectively wherein the first and second fiber patch panels are communicatively coupled to one another using an optical trunk cable wherein the optical trunk cable communicatively couples the first port of the first fiber patch panel to the second port of the second fiber patch panel.

Example 12 includes the system of Example 11 wherein the optical trunk cable comprises first and second multi fiber connectors at ends thereof wherein each multi fiber connector comprises a respective trunk cable storage device in which information about the optical trunk cable is stored.

Example 13 includes the system of Example 12 wherein the aggregation point is configured to receive information read from the first and second trunk cable storage devices.

Example 14 includes the system of any of Examples 4 13 wherein respective identifiers for the first and second active optical cable segments communicated to the aggregation point differ from respective identifiers for the first and second active optical cable segments used by the authentication entity for the authenticating the first and second active optical cable segments.

Example 15 includes the system of Example 14 wherein each of the identifiers for the first and second active optical cable segments communicated to the aggregation point comprises a predetermined bit sequence based on a portion of a fixed part of the information stored in the respective first or second active end storage device.

Example 16 includes the system of any of Examples 4 15 wherein the active optical cable segments comprise at least one of an ETHERNET cable segment a FIBRE CHANNEL cable segment an INFINIBAND cable segment a Serial Attached SCSI SAS cable segment and a SONET SDH cable segment.

Example 17 includes a cable comprising at least a first optical fiber extending from a first end to a second end an active optical component terminating the first end of the first optical fiber the active optical component including an electrical connector configured to receive electrical signals converted from optical signals carried over the first optical fiber and the active optical component including a first storage device that is electrically connected to the electrical connector and a fiber optic connector terminating the second end of the first optical fiber the fiber optic connector including an optical ferrule that is configured to receive optical signals carried over the first optical fiber the fiber optic connector including a second storage device and a media reading interface that are isolated from the optical signals carried over the first optical fiber wherein the second storage device is electrically connected to the media reading interface.

Example 18 includes the cable of Example 17 wherein at least a first optical fiber comprises a plurality of optical fibers wherein the active optical component terminates a first end of each of the optical fibers.

Example 19 includes the cable of Example 18 wherein the fiber optic connector terminates a second end of each of the optical fibers.

Example 20 includes the cable of any of Examples 18 19 wherein a second end of each of the optical fibers is separately terminated at a single fiber optical connector.

