---

title: Industry specific brand benchmarking system based on social media strength of a brand
abstract: A brand monitoring platform (BMP) for brand benchmarking based on a brand's social media strength is provided. The BMP acquires input information on the brand and identifies industries related to the brand and competing brands. The BMP acquires social media information related to the brand and the competing brands from multiple social media sources via a network, dynamically generates categories in one or more hierarchical levels in each of the industries based on an independent analysis of the social media information, and sorts the social media information into the categories using a sorting interface. The BMP generates an aggregate score using an audience score determined by measuring an aggregate reach of the brand and the competing brands based on weighted audience score metric parameters, and an engagement score determined by measuring interaction between the brand and the competing brands and their followers based on weighted engagement score metric parameters.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08620718&OS=08620718&RS=08620718
owner: Unmetric Inc.
number: 08620718
owner_city: Mundelein
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120817
---
This application claims the benefit of non provisional patent application number 2232 CHE 2012 titled Industry Specific Brand Benchmarking System Based On Social Media Strength Of A Brand filed on Jun. 4 2012 in the Indian Patent Office.

The specification of the above referenced non provisional patent application is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

One of the factors that determines the success of a corporate organization is visibility of its brand in various media spaces. With the rapidly rising influence of social media networks for example such as Facebook of Facebook Inc. Twitter of Twitter Inc. etc. on brand marketing there is a need for comparing brands against their competitors to know how and where they stand among their competitors or peers in a social media space. Conventional benchmarking systems typically perform a brand comparison only based on the reach of the brand within the social media space. These conventional benchmarking systems often perform brand comparison for brands in disparate fields unrelated industries unrelated geographical areas etc. A generic benchmarking system that compares brands in unrelated industries is often not useful since demographics of consumers market forces etc. that drive different industries are often different. Furthermore brands in different industries or brands concentrated in a particular geographical location often adopt different methods of social interaction. Therefore there is a need for benchmarking brands against other brands that operate in the same social space.

Furthermore conventional benchmarking systems do not take into account differences arising due to variations in geographical locations of the brand. Therefore when a conventional benchmarking system generates benchmark scores for an entire industry systemic high scores received by a brand in a particular geographical location often overpower systemic low scores received by the brand in another geographical location resulting in a skewed combined industry score. For example a brand for a cellular network provider may have a large market in a particular geographical location and consequently a larger consumer base in that particular geographical location. Therefore the brand may have a larger following on a social media source commonly used by consumers located in that particular geographical location. However the brand may have to contend with multiple competing brands in a geographical location where the brand is yet to establish a sizeable market. Furthermore consumers in the other geographical location may not be inclined to use a social media source for brand interaction. Therefore a benchmark score generated for the brand in a particular geographical location may not be comparable with a benchmark score generated for the brand in a different geographical location.

Conventional benchmarking systems often generate a universal score that does not consider factors affected by a geographical location of the brand. Therefore there is a need for a computer implemented method and system that benchmarks brands and generates benchmark scores specific to an industry related to the brand and its competitors and or a geographical location at which the brands operate. Furthermore since there is a wide variation among brands across different industries in a targeted market demographics brand messages actual products marketing strategies adopted by the brands etc. there is a need for a computer implemented method and system that provides a focused benchmark score for a brand that is valid to a product and or a service category for which the product and or the service represented by the brand was developed without comparing benchmark scores of two different industries.

Hence there is a long felt but unresolved need for a computer implemented method and system that benchmarks a brand based on social media strength of the brand relative to other competing brands operating in the same industry and or the same geographical location as that of the brand.

This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further disclosed in the detailed description of the invention. This summary is not intended to identify key or essential inventive concepts of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended for determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.

The computer implemented method and system disclosed herein addresses the above stated need for benchmarking a brand based on social media strength of the brand relative to other competing brands operating in the same industry and or the same geographical location as that of the brand. The computer implemented method and system disclosed herein provides a brand monitoring platform comprising at least one processor configured to monitor the brand in a virtual social media environment. As used herein the term social media strength refers to a measure of strength of consumer reach and consumer interaction supported by a brand in a virtual social media environment. Also as used herein the term virtual social media environment refers to an environment comprising social media networks and forums that enable interaction between brand owners and or marketers and brand followers consumers etc.

The brand monitoring platform acquires input information on the brand. The brand monitoring platform identifies industries related to the brand and competing brands in the identified industries using the acquired input information on the brand. The brand monitoring platform acquires social media information related to the brand and the competing brands in the identified industries from multiple social media sources in the virtual social media environment via a network. As used herein the term social media source refers to an online social platform for example an internet forum a blog a social network etc. that enables consumers brand followers etc. to network and access information on a brand discuss brands establish a brand community communicate with brand owners and or marketers post responses to events or information on products and or services related to the brands etc.

The brand monitoring platform dynamically generates categories in one or more hierarchical levels in each of the identified industries based on an independent analysis of the acquired social media information related to the brand and the competing brands from each of the social media sources. The dynamically generated categories comprise for example a location of each of the identified industries related to the brand and each of the competing brands a location of each of multiple authors of the social media information types of social media sources utilized by the brand and each of the competing brands marketing elements such as special discount offers incentives etc. In an embodiment the brand monitoring platform determines clusters of similar content portions from the acquired social media information and identifies one or more common categories applicable to the brand and each of the competing brands in each of the identified industries from the determined clusters of similar content portions for dynamic generation of the categories.

The brand monitoring platform sorts the acquired social media information related to the brand and the competing brands in each of the identified industries into one or more of the dynamically generated categories in one or more hierarchical levels using a sorting interface provided by the brand monitoring platform. The brand monitoring platform acquires inputs configured for example as tags for sorting the acquired social media information related to the brand and the competing brands in each of the identified industries into one or more of the dynamically generated categories in one or more of the hierarchical levels from a user via the sorting interface.

The brand monitoring platform determines an audience score for the brand and each of the competing brands by measuring an aggregate reach of the brand and each of the competing brands in the virtual social media environment based on one or more of multiple weighted audience score metric parameters using the sorted social media information. The weighted audience score metric parameters comprise for example a number of followers of the brand and each of the competing brands at each of the social media sources a rate of growth of the number of followers of the brand and each of the competing brands a number of recommendations for the brand and each of the competing brands at each of the social media sources from each of the followers a number of references made to the brand and each of the competing brands at each of the social media sources by the followers aggregate responses to products services and or events associated with the brand and each of the competing brands etc.

In an embodiment the brand monitoring platform normalizes measures corresponding to each of the audience score metric parameters. The brand monitoring platform assigns individual weights to the audience score metric parameters. The brand monitoring platform then determines a weighted average of the normalized measures corresponding to each of the audience score metric parameters using the assigned individual weights to determine the audience score for the brand and each of the competing brands. In an embodiment the brand monitoring platform normalizes measures corresponding to each of the weighted audience score metric parameters for reducing statistical differences between extreme measures corresponding to each of the weighted audience score parameters and for reducing outlier data.

The brand monitoring platform determines an engagement score for the brand and each of the competing brands by measuring interaction between the brand and each of the competing brands and their corresponding followers based on one or more of multiple weighted engagement score metric parameters using the sorted social media information. The weighted engagement score metric parameters comprise for example nature of responses to one or more brand actions of the brand and each of the competing brands from each of the followers of the brand and each of the competing brands a number of brand notification messages sentiments of the followers towards the brand and each of the competing brands a number of fan posts extracted from the acquired social media information and relevance of the fan posts to the brand and each of the competing brands. A post is an electronic entry for example in the form of a text message input by a fan a follower a brand administrator etc. at a social media source using a computing device. In an embodiment the brand monitoring platform determines the engagement score for the brand and each of the competing brands by normalizing measures corresponding to each of the engagement score metric parameters assigning individual weights to the engagement score metric parameters and determining a weighted average of the normalized measures corresponding to each of the engagement score metric parameters using the assigned individual weights.

In an embodiment the brand monitoring platform configures one or more weighted audience score metric parameters and one or more engagement score metric parameters for determination of the audience score and the engagement score respectively based on predetermined criteria. Furthermore in an embodiment the determination of the audience score and the engagement score for the brand and each of the competing brands by the brand monitoring platform comprises normalizing measures corresponding to one or more of the audience score metric parameters and one or more of the engagement score metric parameters respectively based on a location of each of the identified industries related to the brand and each of the competing brands for reducing statistical differences in the measures triggered by a difference of the location of each of the identified industries related to the brand and each of the competing brands. Furthermore in an embodiment the brand monitoring platform normalizes measures corresponding to each of the weighted engagement score metric parameters for reducing statistical differences between extreme measures corresponding to each of the weighted engagement score parameters and for reducing outlier data.

The brand monitoring platform generates an aggregate score for the brand and each of the competing brands using the determined audience score and the determined engagement score. In an embodiment the brand monitoring platform generates the aggregate score for the brand and each of the competing brands by determining a weighted average of the determined audience score and the determined engagement score. The brand monitoring platform assigns a rank to the brand and each of the competing brands based on the aggregate score for benchmarking the brand based on the social media strength of the brand in comparison with the competing brands in the virtual social media environment. The generated aggregate score of the brand and each of the competing brands benchmarks the brand based on the social media strength of the brand in comparison with the competing brands in the virtual social media environment.

The brand monitoring platform acquires input information on the brand. The input information on the brand comprises for example name of the brand information on products and or services associated with the brand demographics of consumers targeted by the brand geographical marketing data of the brand market share of the brand etc. In an embodiment the brand monitoring platform crawls the web to extract information on the brand based on a preliminary set of inputs received from a brand marketing entity associated with the brand. The brand monitoring platform extracts the input information for example from online advertisements images videos consumer forums press releases news events white papers etc. of the brand. The brand monitoring platform creates a brand profile based on the acquired input information for each of the brands and tracks and updates changes to the brand profile periodically. In an example the brand monitoring platform configures application programming interfaces APIs for each of multiple online resources comprising for example social media sources for automatically retrieving information on a particular brand.

The brand monitoring platform identifies industries related to the brand and competing brands in the identified industries using the acquired input information on the brand. For example the brand monitoring platform establishes communication with online retail systems via a network for example the internet and extracts information on products and or services with characteristics similar to the products and or services associated with the brand. The brand monitoring platform identifies brands associated with the products and or the services having similar characteristics as those of the input brand as competing brands .

In another example the brand monitoring platform accesses online public databases via the network to obtain industry specific information for a brand and competing brands in an industry. The brand monitoring platform establishes a connection with databases of multiple social media sources over the network. For example the brand monitoring platform accesses a web page of a brand hosted on Facebook of Facebook Inc. The web page of the brand on Facebook may list the industries to which the brand belongs. Furthermore brand information related to the brand is retrieved through an application programming interface API customized for accessing brand information from Facebook . Furthermore in order to obtain brand information on the competing brands for an industry the brand monitoring platform establishes a connection to public databases via the network to query and obtain the information related to each of the competing brands. For example the brand monitoring platform connects to Yahoo Finance of Yahoo Inc. and retrieves brand information finance information of the competing brands within an industry via an API access. Furthermore the brand monitoring platform uses for example the Facebook API to obtain brand information of the competing brands in the industry from a Facebook web page.

In an embodiment the brand monitoring platform identifies industries using the brand and the competing brands. The brand monitoring platform identifies multiple industries that are associated with a particular brand. A company associated with a brand for example provides products and or services across multiple industries. Consider an example where a particular brand is associated with industries such as healthcare aviation fuel and energy management capital management etc. The brand monitoring platform identifies competing brands for that particular brand in each of the identified industries and determines from the brand information that the market for the brand extends to multiple industries. The brand monitoring platform benchmarks the brand separately in each of the different identified industries.

The brand monitoring platform acquires social media information related to the brand and the competing brands in the identified industries from multiple social media sources in the virtual social media environment via a network for example the internet an intranet a local area network a wide area network a communication network implementing Wi Fi of the Wireless Ethernet Compatibility Alliance Inc. a cellular network a mobile communication network such as a global system for mobile communications GSM network a general packet radio service GPRS network etc. As used herein the term social media source refers to an online social platform for example an internet forum a blog a social network etc. that enables consumers brand followers etc. to network and access information on a brand discuss brands establish a brand community communicate with brand owners and or marketers post responses to events or information on products and or services related to the brands etc. A brand community is for example a group of followers or consumers interested in the products and or services associated with a brand. A social media source is for example Facebook of Facebook Inc. Twitter of Twitter Inc. Google of Google Inc. YouTube of Google Inc. LinkedIn of LinkedIn Corporation etc. The social media information comprises for example statistical information on number of followers of a brand at a particular social media source number of posts posted by brand administrators brand followers brand marketers etc. for example a number of tweets received for a brand on Twitter or a number of shares on Facebook the content of the posts etc. A post is an electronic entry for example in the form of a text message input by a fan a follower a brand administrator etc. at a social media source using a computing device. A tweet refers to a post made on a micro blogging website of Twitter .

The brand monitoring platform dynamically generates categories in one or more hierarchical levels in each of the identified industries based on an independent analysis of the acquired social media information related to the brand and the competing brands from each of the social media sources. The hierarchical levels comprise for example a set of sub categories for each of the dynamically generated categories in each of the identified industries. The dynamically generated categories comprise for example a location of each of the identified industries related to the brand and each of the competing brands a location of each of multiple authors of the social media information types of social media sources utilized by the brand and each of the competing brands marketing elements etc. The categorization of the social media information based on the location of each of the identified industries enables a relative analysis of the social media strength of the brands in line with the preferences of consumers in a particular geographical location. The location of each of the authors of the social media information for example followers who regularly post messages their reviews of products and or services associated with the brand etc. determine a scale of interest in the brand and products and or services associated with the brand for consumers located in the particular location. The types of social media sources utilized by the brand and each of the competing brands comprise for example different social networking applications such as Facebook of Facebook Inc. Twitter of Twitter Inc. Google of Google Inc. YouTube of Google Inc. LinkedIn of LinkedIn Corporation etc. utilized by the brand and each of the competing brands. The marketing elements comprise for example special discount offers incentives etc. redeemable for purchasing the products and or services associated with the brand. The brand monitoring platform classifies information on the brands and the competing brands for analysis and generation of an aggregate score. The aggregate score represents a relative position of the brand among its peers and competing brands in its use of social media.

Consider an example where a brand owner registers a brand in an airlines industry with the brand monitoring platform. The brand monitoring platform analyzes the acquired social media information and determines a first hierarchical level of categories for categorizing the social media information related to brands in the airlines industry for example as brand related current events industry related and miscellaneous . The brand monitoring platform further divides each of the categories into a second hierarchical level of categories. The second hierarchical level of categories is for example based on a particular type of industry. For example the brand monitoring platform divides the brand related category of the first hierarchical level into a second hierarchical level of sub categories for example airfare deals announcements and updates brand news corporate social responsibility marketing elements such as contests or sweepstakes events festive offers frequent flyer programs frequently asked questions pertaining to the brand travel destination information etc. The brand monitoring platform divides the current events category of the first hierarchical level into a second hierarchical level of sub categories for example festival and or greetings posted by followers or the brand marketers entertainment events on social media sports events such as cricket tournaments sponsored by the airlines industry questions miscellaneous etc. The brand monitoring platform divides the industry related category of the first hierarchical level into a second hierarchical level of sub categories for example events in the airline industry facts about the airline industry questions to followers news on sectors such as fluctuations recorded in the share market travel advice travel destination information etc. The miscellaneous category of the first hierarchical level comprises for example information about the airlines industry that is not related to a specific brand.

In an embodiment the brand monitoring platform performs an independent analysis of the acquired social media information related to the brand and the competing brands from each of the social media sources for dynamically generating categories by determining clusters of similar content portions from the acquired social media information and identifying one or more common categories applicable to the brand and each of the competing brands in each of the identified industries from the determined clusters of similar content portions. The brand monitoring platform analyzes a large number of posts retrieved from multiple social media sources. In an embodiment the brand monitoring platform performs a keyword analysis and a clustering of the posts to extract common patterns keywords etc. For example the brand monitoring platform applies a clustering computer program for comparing content portions extracted from the social media information acquired from each of the social media sources and generates a similarity score based on a keyword comparison between the content portions. The brand monitoring platform identifies common keywords from the clustered content portions for generating categories. In an example the brand monitoring platform performs a natural language processing analysis of textual content in the acquired social media information to extract patterns of linguistic similarity between the content portions.

Furthermore in another example the brand monitoring platform acquires a set of categories from an authorized user via a graphical user interface GUI provided by the brand monitoring platform sorts the acquired social media information into the acquired categories and then performs further analysis of the sorted social media information to identify one or more common sub categories from the acquired social media information applicable to the brand and each of the competing brands in the identified industries. The brand monitoring platform provides a sorting interface on the GUI that enables users to manually tag the keywords and or the clusters of keywords as separate categories for categorizing the acquired social media information and for generating aggregate scores for each of the brands. The brand monitoring platform supports and maintains the dynamically generated categories along with categories acquired from one or more users. The brand monitoring platform provides an integrated set of categories that are available to users for sorting social media information for example posts recorded at a particular social media source.

Consider an example where the brand monitoring platform acquires social media information for example posts posted by users at a social media source for example Facebook on a product and or a service released by a new brand in the market. The brand monitoring platform extracts keywords from each of the posts and compares these keywords with the keywords extracted from each of the other posts to obtain clusters of similar content portions. For example consider a brand that releases a new soft drink and employs a tagline comprising keywords such as game changer . The brand monitoring platform excludes all qualifier keywords such as excellent awesome etc. from the posts during an independent analysis of each of the posts. Furthermore the posts and messages may recite and reference the tagline of the brand. The brand monitoring platform collects all the posts that have used the keyword game . In this example most of the posts may also have the keywords drink beverage thirst bottle etc. The brand monitoring platform clusters all the posts with similar content portions for example the posts that reference the keywords drink beverage bottle etc. together. The brand monitoring platform determines a higher similarity between the keywords drink and beverage than the keywords beverage and game . The brand monitoring platform assigns a similarity score based on the amount of similarity between the keywords extracted from the posts. Therefore the brand monitoring platform assigns a higher similarity score for associated keywords such as drink and beverage and clusters these keywords together. Therefore even though there is a high incidence of the keyword game through the posts the brand monitoring platform does not categorize the brand as one related to sports since the similarity between the keywords game and drink is minimal. Based on the similarity score the brand monitoring platform identifies a common category Food and beverage for the brand.

The brand monitoring platform sorts the acquired social media information related to the brand and the competing brands in each of the identified industries into one or more of the dynamically generated categories in one or more of the hierarchical levels using the sorting interface provided by the brand monitoring platform. The sorting interface is for example hosted on the graphical user interface GUI provided by the brand monitoring platform. The brand monitoring platform acquires inputs for example as tags for sorting the acquired social media information related to the brand and the competing brands in each of the identified industries into one or more of the dynamically generated categories in the hierarchical levels from a user via the sorting interface. The sorting interface displays the complete set of categories and sub categories for each of the identified industries and provides interface options for manually tagging the social media information for example posts from a social media source to a particular category or a sub category. The brand monitoring platform therefore allows a user to manually tag posts into the categories generated by the brand monitoring platform or the categories acquired from one or more users and maintained by the brand monitoring platform for example based on the industry related to the brand. The provision for manual tagging allows sorting of the social media information based on user preferences. The steps for sorting the acquired social media information are disclosed in the detailed description of .

The brand monitoring platform determines an audience score for the brand and each of the competing brands by measuring an aggregate reach of the brand and each of the competing brands in the virtual social media environment based on one or more of multiple weighted audience score metric parameters using the sorted social media information. The term aggregate reach refers to an extent of visibility that a brand has garnered at a particular social media source. The weighted audience score metric parameters comprise for example a number of followers of the brand and each of the competing brands at each of the social media sources a rate of growth of the number of followers of the brand and each of the competing brands a number of recommendations for the brand and each of the competing brands at each of the social media sources from each of the followers a number of references made to the brand and each of the competing brands at each of the social media sources by the followers aggregate responses to products services and or events associated with the brand and each of the competing brands etc. For example the brand monitoring platform defines audience score metric parameters as a number of fans or followers for the brand at social media sources such as Facebook Twitter Google etc. the rate of growth of the fans that is how quickly the number of fans are growing in a brand community at each of the social media sources recommendations from the followers number of online consumers who mention the brand aggregate responses such as retweets shares likes etc. from the fans or followers the commercial or market size of the brand etc. A share refers to a sharing action performed by a user at a social media source using a share option provided by the social media source for sharing content between users. A like refers to a positive input provided by a user at a social media source using a like option provided by the social media source for expressing that he she likes enjoys or supports particular content.

In an embodiment the brand monitoring platform normalizes measures corresponding to each of the audience score metric parameters. Normalization is a technique that allows data on different scales to be compared by bringing them to a common scale. As used herein the term measures refers to values of the metric parameters. The brand monitoring platform assigns individual weights to the audience score metric parameters as disclosed in the detailed description of . The brand monitoring platform determines a weighted average of the normalized measures corresponding to each of the audience score metric parameters using the assigned individual weights to determine the audience score.

The brand monitoring platform determines an engagement score for the brand and each of the competing brands by measuring interaction between the brand and each of the competing brands and their corresponding followers based on one or more of multiple weighted engagement score metric parameters using the sorted social media information. The weighted engagement score metric parameters comprise for example nature of responses to one or more brand actions of the brand and each of the competing brands from each of the followers of the brand and each of the competing brands a number of brand notification messages sentiments of the followers towards the brand and each of the competing brands a number of fan posts extracted from the acquired social media information relevance of the fan posts to the brand and each of the competing brands. As used herein the term brand action refers to an event or an action carried out by a particular brand that affects consumers of the brand. A brand action is for example a release of a new product associated with the brand announcement of discount offers incentives etc. The brand monitoring platform sets engagement score metric parameters for example how fans respond to the brand actions for example through likes comments shares 1s retweets replies up votes down votes etc. how much effort the brand puts into a web page at a social media source using number of posts tweets videos photos links polls brand messages advertisements etc. posted by brand marketers an extent of involvement of the fans in the brand community based on the number of fan posts relevance of the fan posts to the brand how the fans identify with the brand the sentiment of the fans towards the brand that is whether the fans post messages reflecting a positive sentiment a negative sentiment or a neutral sentiment etc. The brand monitoring platform performs sentiment analysis of for example the fan responses comments replies video responses mentions etc. to determine the engagement score.

In an embodiment the brand monitoring platform determines an engagement score for the brand and each of the competing brands by normalizing measures corresponding to each of the engagement score metric parameters assigning individual weights to the engagement score metric parameters and determining a weighted average of the normalized measures corresponding to each of the engagement score metric parameters using the assigned individual weights.

In an embodiment the brand monitoring platform configures one or more weighted audience score metric parameters and one or more weighted engagement score metric parameters for determination of the audience score and the engagement score respectively based on predetermined criteria. For example on completing sorting and categorization of the acquired social media information the brand monitoring platform has access to information on the type of content posted by the brands. The brand monitoring platform uses a percentage of posts related to the brand or a percentage of posts related to the industry as metric parameters to be used for computing an aggregate score. The predetermined criteria for configuring the metric parameters are set differently for different social media sources. For example for a particular social media source such as Facebook the brand monitoring platform assigns a higher weight for a percentage of posts related to a brand than to a percentage of posts related to an industry where the brands are operative.

In an embodiment the brand monitoring platform retrieves the social media information comprising measures for each of the audience score metric parameters and the engagement score metric parameters via application programming interfaces APIs generated for each of the social media sources. For example the brand monitoring platform in collaboration with each of the social media sources generates separate application programming interfaces for Facebook Twitter LinkedIn etc. The brand monitoring platform configures the APIs for each of the social media sources to automatically retrieve the social media information related to the brand and the competing brands in the identified industries from each of the social media sources in the virtual social media environment.

Furthermore in an embodiment the determination of the audience score and the engagement score for the brand and each of the competing brands by the brand monitoring platform comprises normalizing measures corresponding to the audience score metric parameters and the engagement score metric parameters respectively based on a location of each of the identified industries related to the brand and each of the competing brands for reducing statistical differences in the measures triggered by a difference of the location of each of the identified industries related to the brand and each of the competing brands. Consider an example where a particular brand has established a relatively larger market in a particular geographical location when compared to another geographical location where the brand is yet to establish a sizeable market. Furthermore the nature of a product associated with the brand may affect the suitability of the product to a particular geographical location. For example a skin tanning cream may have a greater market in a cold country than in a country located in an equatorial region. Therefore the number of posts related to the skin tanning cream retrieved from a particular social media source from consumers in the cold country is statistically higher than the number of posts from consumers in the country located in the equatorial region. However a sun protection cream offered by the same brand may trigger a greater response to the product on that particular social media source from consumers in the equatorial region. Therefore this may result in a skewed analysis of a particular brand and all the competing brands. In order to balance the statistical differences induced by changes in geography demographics etc. the brand monitoring platform normalizes the measures corresponding to one or more of the audience score metric parameters or the engagement score metric parameters that are affected by changes in the geography. This ensures that when an aggregate score is computed for all the brands in an industry systemic high aggregate scores for brands in a particular geographical location do not overpower systemic low scores of the brands in a different geographical location. In an example the normalization of the measures corresponding to the audience score metric parameters and the engagement score metric parameters comprises statistically processing their respective measures to ensure a match between a median value and a variance value for each of the locations of the identified industries related to the brand and the competing brands.

In an embodiment the brand monitoring platform normalizes measures corresponding to each of the weighted audience score metric parameters for reducing statistical differences between extreme measures corresponding to each of the weighted audience score parameters and for reducing outlier data. Furthermore in an embodiment the brand monitoring platform normalizes measures corresponding to each of the weighted engagement score metric parameters for reducing statistical differences between extreme measures corresponding to each of the weighted engagement score parameters and for reducing outlier data. The outlier data comprise one or more values of the measures corresponding to the audience score metric parameters or the engagement score metric parameters that deviate markedly from the other values of the measures.

The statistical differences between the measures corresponding to each of the metric parameters affect a variance and consequently a standard deviation of a statistical distribution of the measures corresponding to each of the metric parameters. For example a comparative analysis between a brand and a competing brand with respect to an audience score metric parameter growth of a number of fans may be inaccurate due to a large variance between extreme measures in the statistical distribution triggered by outlier data in the statistical distribution of one of the brands. The outlier data may be recorded as a result of an abrupt increase in the number of fans for a brand for a short period of time. Furthermore larger statistical differences between the measures of a metric parameter affect a mean value of the statistical distribution for that metric parameter. Therefore a comparative analysis between a brand and a competing brand based on an average number of fans for each of the brands is likely to be inaccurate since the mean value is affected by the extreme measures of the statistical distribution. The brand monitoring platform therefore normalizes the audience score and the engagement score by statistically processing the audience score and the engagement score respectively to have an identical mean value and variance value.

The brand monitoring platform generates an aggregate score for the brand and each of the competing brands using the determined audience score and the determined engagement score. The brand monitoring platform generates a separate aggregate score for each brand for each social media source used by the brand. In an embodiment the brand monitoring platform generates the aggregate score for the brand and each of the competing brands by determining a weighted average of the determined audience score and the determined engagement score. In an embodiment the brand monitoring platform performs normalization for example by converting the audience scores and the engagement scores to a common median and a common standard deviation to allow the audience scores and the engagement scores to be combined to generate the aggregate scores. The aggregate score is specific to the industry and or geography in which the brand operates. In an example the brand monitoring platform generates an aggregate score exclusively that is an aggregate score that is only valid in a category for which the aggregate score is developed and excludes comparison of aggregate scores between two industries. This enables benchmarking for brands against their competitors or peers in a similar industry. Therefore considering the wide variation among brands in a targeted market demographics brand messages actual products and or services marketing strategies etc. a narrowly focused aggregate score reflects a more balanced analysis of brands in a particular industry.

The aggregate score is an independent score that can be used by brand owners to track the pulse of enterprise social activity within industries. The aggregate score can be used by brand owners of for example new brands to ascertain their position among peers and competing brands in their use of social media. The aggregate score can be used by brand owners of for example lagging brands to dissect and understand strategies used by top ranking brands to achieve their top scores. The aggregate score can be used by brand owners to validate that their social media strategy is working as intended by monitoring the changes in their aggregate score relative to all socially active brands.

The brand monitoring platform assigns a rank to the brand and each of the competing brands based on the aggregate score for benchmarking the brand based on the social media strength of the brand in comparison with the competing brands in the virtual social media environment. For example a brand assigned with a rank of one may be considered as a leading brand for a particular industry in a particular geographical location. The aggregate score and the brand rank of a brand and each of the competing brands benchmarks the brand based on the social media strength of the brand in comparison with the competing brands in the virtual social media environment.

In an embodiment the brand monitoring platform tracks changes to the acquired social media information input information acquired on the brands etc. and automatically updates the audience score the engagement score the aggregate score and the brand rank of each of the brands in the industry. The brand monitoring platform transmits a notification to each of the brand communities brand marketers etc. who have registered with the brand monitoring platform for example via an electronic mail email notification a pop up message on a display window etc. on the updated changes to the aggregate score and the brand rank.

The brand monitoring platform selects important competing brands in the identified industry and populates social media information attributes extracted from the social media information for example in a relational database management system. The brand monitoring platform employs a clustering algorithm to collect the social media information relevant to all brands in a particular industry. The brand monitoring platform analyzes the social media information for example posts published on a social media source for each of the brands. The brand monitoring platform dynamically generates industry categories for sorting the social media information using keywords extracted from the social media information. The brand monitoring platform provides a sorting interface for manually tagging the social media information into the dynamically generated categories for example based on an industry of each brand.

The brand monitoring platform normalizes the distribution of measures for one or more metric parameters that are affected by changes in the geography by normalizing median values of the measures according to geography. That is the brand monitoring platform normalizes the measures for each metric parameter by geography in order to reduce large statistical differences in the measures arising due to differences in geographical locations of the brands. In another example for normalization the brand monitoring platform normalizes the measures by making a median and a variance similar for each geographical location. The brand monitoring platform also normalizes median values of the other measures that are not geographically normalized for the whole industry. For example some quantitative measures may not be affected by geography. Therefore the brand monitoring platform does not geographically normalize the measures that are not affected by geography and instead normalizes these measures for the whole industry. The brand monitoring platform performs normalization of the other measures by normalizing variances in the measures. Furthermore the normalization of the measures reduces the effect of outlier data.

The brand monitoring platform normalizes extreme values in the distribution of the measures by tapering the extreme values as disclosed in the detailed description of to further reduce the effect of outlier data. The brand monitoring platform normalizes extreme values since the extreme values may be representative of outlier data. For example all data corresponding to the measures of the audience score metric parameters and the engagement score metric parameters contain some outlier data that is not representative of a sample of each of the measures. The brand monitoring platform tamps down the extreme values so that they do not affect the samples of the measures of the respective audience score metric parameters or the respective engagement score metric parameters by a considerable extent. After normalization of the extreme values among the samples the different measures cannot be compared to each other directly because each of the measures may have different variances. Since comparing such measures directly may lead to errors the brand monitoring platform normalizes the variances such that all measures have the same median and the same variance in order to ensure that all the measures are comparable with each other. Furthermore the brand monitoring platform then normalizes a standard deviation of the measures for one or more audience score metric parameters and or engagement score metric parameters.

The brand monitoring platform determines the audience score using a weighted average of the normalized measures of the quantitative metrics. For example the brand monitoring platform computes a mathematical product of a measure of the quantitative metric number of fans with weight 1 and uses the computed mathematical product as one of the inputs for calculating the audience score . Similarly the brand monitoring platform computes a mathematical product of a measure of the quantitative metric growth of fans with weight 2 a mathematical product of a measure of the quantitative metric number of people talking about this with weight 3 a mathematical product of a measure of the quantitative metric change in the number of people talking about this with weight 4 and a mathematical product of a measure of the quantitative metric other audience score metric parameters with weight 5. The brand monitoring platform then determines the audience score using the computed mathematical products as inputs. The weights determine the contribution of each of the quantitative metrics to the audience score .

The brand monitoring platform determines the engagement score using a weighted average of the normalized measures of the qualitative metrics. For example the brand monitoring platform computes a mathematical product of a measure of the qualitative metric engagement number with weight 1 and uses the computed mathematical product as one of the inputs for calculating the engagement score . Similarly the brand monitoring platform computes a mathematical product of a measure of the qualitative metric change in the engagement number with weight 2 a mathematical product of a measure of the qualitative metric net positive sentiment with weight 3 a mathematical product of a measure of the qualitative metric change in sentiment with weight 4 a mathematical product of a measure of the qualitative metric number of administrator posts with weight 6 a mathematical product of a measure of the qualitative metric percentage of fan posts with weight 7 a mathematical product of a measure of the qualitative metric number of brand related posts with weight 8 a mathematical product of a measure of the qualitative metric percentage of brand related posts with weight 9 and a mathematical product of a measure of the qualitative metric other engagement score metric parameters with weight 5. The brand monitoring platform then determines the engagement score using the computed mathematical products as inputs. The weights determine the contribution of each of the qualitative metrics to the engagement score .

Once the brand monitoring platform has developed the categorization schema for brands in the aviation industry the brand monitoring platform allows manual categorization of posts extracted from the social media information for each brand in the aviation industry via the sorting interface. The sorting interface allows an authorized user to sort or tag the social media information. In this example the social media information comprises an administrator post about a government department strike in the public sector that affects all airlines at the Heathrow airport. The authorized user sorts or tags the administrator post into the category related to aviation in general for example by clicking on a command button labeled as related to aviation in general on the sorting interface as exemplarily illustrated in .

For each of the brands exemplarily illustrated in the brand monitoring platform uses metric parameters for example number of likes and growth in the number of likes during the generation of the aggregate score for each of the brands. The brand monitoring platform accounts for the geographical locations where each of the brands is focused by normalizing the aggregate reach of the brand based on geography. The brand monitoring platform displays the aggregate scores of each of the brands for a particular month and allows a user to select other months on the GUI to view the aggregate scores of each of the brands for the other months.

Furthermore the brand monitoring platform uses the following statistical data related to engagement score metric parameters for the month of March 

Based on the measures of the engagement score metric parameters the brand monitoring platform generates the following engagement number for each of the competing brands 

Number of posts as KLM 2290 26 administrator posts and 2264 fan posts Lufthansa 1030 37 administrator posts and 993 fan posts SouthWest Airlines 2150 21 administrator posts and 2129 fan posts 

Growth of posts KLM 1437 2 administrator posts and 1439 fan posts Lufthansa 34 13 administrator posts and 21 fan posts SouthWest Airlines 1070 9 administrator posts and 1061 fan posts 

The brand monitoring platform counts the number of posts tagged manually in one or more dynamically generated categories for each of the brands as 

Lufthansa 37 25 brand related posts 6 industry related posts 1 current affairs related post 1 other post 

The brand monitoring platform tracks the number of posts ordered according to the sentiment of the posts as 

KLM 2286 635 positive 113 negative 1538 neutral posts Lufthansa 1027 205 positive 53 negative 769 neutral posts SouthWest Airlines 2142 866 positive 171 negative 1105 neutral posts 

The brand monitoring platform computes the number of posts that have a positive sentiment or a negative sentiment. The number of posts with a positive sentiment and a negative sentiment are used to calculate intermediate measures. For example an intermediate measure of the metric parameter net sentiment is computed as Net sentiment positive sentiment negative sentiment.

The brand monitoring platform assigns equal weights to both positive sentiments and negative sentiments. The brand monitoring platform shifts the net sentiment to ensure that differential values are positive. The brand monitoring platform then normalizes the net sentiment for example by normalizing the variance in the net sentiment to ensure that the measure of the metric parameter is in line with the other measures.

The brand monitoring platform determines the growth in the number of posts ordered according to the sentiment of the posts as follows 

KLM 1441 541 positive 103 negative Lufthansa 37 18 positive 11 negative SouthWest Airlines 1078 307 positive 87 negative 

The brand monitoring platform normalizes the statistical data for each of the metric parameters that is the audience score metric parameters and the engagement score metric parameters to reduce statistical differences and outlier data. The brand monitoring platform normalizes measures corresponding to each of the metric parameters by calculating statistics based on the metric parameters of all the brands. For example the brand monitoring platform determines a median value for the audience score metric parameter number of fans to normalize the number of fans to a standard value. Furthermore the brand monitoring platform computes an inter quartile range to normalize standard deviations. The brand monitoring platform performs a sequence of steps as follows The brand monitoring platform computes the relevant measures for example a percentage growth of fans. The brand monitoring platform then computes intermediate values for normalization of the measures of one or more audience score metric parameters and engagement score metric parameters. For example the brand monitoring platform computes a square root of the number of fans in order to reduce spread of a measure between extreme values.

The brand monitoring platform then normalizes the statistical data for each of the metric parameters that is the audience score metric parameters and or the engagement score metric parameters according to the geographical locations of the brands. In this example the brand monitoring platform normalizes the measures of one or more audience score metric parameters and or one or more engagement score metric parameters that vary according to the geographical location of the brand such that the median value of the measures for a particular audience score metric parameter or a particular engagement score metric parameter for the brand is 100. The brand monitoring platform normalizes the other measures such that the median value is 100. The brand monitoring platform normalizes geography specific metric parameters according to the geographical location and reach of the brand in the particular geographical location. For example for the metric parameters that are geography specific the brand monitoring platform normalizes the measures corresponding to each of the metric parameters for the brands in the Asia Pacific region the North America region the Europe region etc. separately. The brand monitoring platform tapers extreme values of measures recorded for each of the audience score metric parameters and or the engagement score metric parameters. For example the brand monitoring platform tapers values that are three times an inter quartile range more than a third quartile. These values are tapered to be a maximum of double the value.

Consider an example where the brand monitoring platform considers the number of fans metric parameter. The brand monitoring platform normalizes the measures corresponding to this metric parameter by first applying a square root of each of the measures for this metric parameter to obtain a new statistical distribution. The normalized measure that is the square root of the measure for the number of fans metric parameter derived from the original measure is known as an intermediate value. The brand monitoring platform then computes a mean value of the new statistical distribution as 172.15 the standard deviation as 138.63 the inter quartile range as 121.3 and the third quartile as 189.6. The brand monitoring platform tapers the measures based on a threshold value that is derived as 189.6 3 121.3 553.5 to a maximum value of 1107. Therefore extreme values of the normalized measures of each of the brands corresponding to the number of fans metric parameter that exceed the threshold value 553.5 by a large value are tapered to 1107. The brand monitoring platform normalizes the measures that exceed the threshold value of 553.5 by a small value for example to a measure closer to or equal to 553.5.

The brand monitoring platform normalizes the individual measures of each of the brands corresponding to the number of fans metric parameter as follows 

The brand monitoring platform computes the square root of the measure of the number of fans for KLM Airlines as 1335185 1155.502. The brand monitoring platform then normalizes the intermediate value that is the square root of the measure of the number of fans using the median value the standard deviation value and the threshold value derived for the complete statistical distribution taken from the above description as 1155.502 1.7215 671.2181 172.15 671.2181 172.15 1.3863 532.1501. Since this normalized measure of 532.1501 does not exceed the threshold computed for the distribution the brand monitoring platform does not taper this measure.

The brand monitoring platform computes the square root of the measure of the number of fans for Lufthansa Airlines as 935408 967.1649. The brand monitoring platform then normalizes the intermediate value that is the square root of the measure of the number of fans using the median value the standard deviation value and the threshold value derived for the complete statistical distribution taken from the above description as 967.1649 967.1649 1.7215 561.815 172.15 561.815 172.15 1.3863 453.233. Since this normalized measure of 453.233 does not exceed the threshold value computed for the distribution the brand monitoring platform does not taper this measure.

The brand monitoring platform computes the square root of the measure of the number of fans for Lufthansa Airlines as 2158217 1469.087. The brand monitoring platform then normalizes the intermediate value that is the square root of the measure of the number of fans using the median value the standard deviation value and the threshold value derived for the complete statistical distribution taken from the above description as 1469.087 1.7215 853.376 172.15 853.376 172.15 1.3863 663.549. Since this normalized measure of 663.549 exceeds the threshold value computed for the distribution the brand monitoring platform tapers this measure to a measure closer to the threshold value for example 580.483.

The brand monitoring platform then normalizes the measures corresponding to one or more audience score metric parameters and or one or more engagement score metric parameters such that the standard deviation is 100. Subsequent to performing the computational steps detailed above for the other audience score metric parameters and engagement score metric parameters the brand monitoring platform obtains the following normalized results 

The brand monitoring platform determines an audience score for each brand using a weighted average of the normalized measures of the audience score metric parameters. The audience score metric parameters comprise the quantitative metrics. The brand monitoring platform assigns weights to the audience score metric parameters based on the industry. In this example the brand monitoring platform assigns weights to the audience score metric parameters as follows 

Number of fans 65 Growth of fans 20 Number of social media users discussing the brand referred to as Talking About This 10 Growth in Talking About This 5 

The brand monitoring platform therefore determines the audience score for KLM as 0.65 532.1501 0.20 243.5084 0.1 480.2132 0.05 38.1762 444.529

The brand monitoring platform determines the audience score for Lufthansa Airlines and SouthWest Airlines as 

The brand monitoring platform determines an engagement score for each brand using a weighted average of the normalized measures of the engagement score metric parameters that is the qualitative metrics. In this example the brand monitoring platform assigns the following weights to the engagement score metric parameters for determining the engagement score 35 for the engagement number 15 for growth in the engagement number 20 for the number of administrator posts 5 for percentage of fan posts 15 for number of posts manually sorted into the dynamically generated categories and 10 for net positive sentiment.

For KLM Airlines the engagement score is 295.3688. 0.35 169.4406 0.15 318.2043 0.20 587.5118 0.05 218.8007 0.15 219.9026 0.1 269.0621 295.3688 

For Lufthansa Airlines the engagement score is 213.1123. 0.35 80.4079 0.15 79.3501 0.20 602.3587 0.05 211.1232 0.15 152.2517 0.1 192.0146 213.1123 

For SouthWest Airlines the engagement score is 178.5683 0.35 84.3358 0.15 162.1752 0.20 264.1188 0.05 291.5611 0.15 312.2309 0.1 104.8804 178.5683 

The brand monitoring platform normalizes the audience score and the engagement score such that the mean and the variance for each of the audience score and the engagement score is the same. Therefore the brand monitoring platform determines the normalized audience score for each of the brands as follows 

The mean value for the normalized distribution for the engagement score across different brands in this example is 113 and the standard deviation for the normalized distribution for the engagement score is 91.7. The brand monitoring platform determines the engagement score for each of the brands as follows 

The brand monitoring platform generates an aggregate score as the weighted average of the audience score and the engagement score. In this example the weighs assigned to the audience score and the engagement score are equal. Therefore the aggregate score for each of the brands is computed as follows 

The brand monitoring platform normalizes the aggregate score between 0 and 100. On normalizing the aggregate score the brand monitoring platform obtains the following values 

Similarly the brand monitoring platform performs the steps to for the airline brand ABC and benchmarks the airline brand ABC in the airlines industry based on the social media strength of the brand ABC in comparison with the competing brands for example KLM Lufthansa and SouthWest Airlines in the virtual social media environment.

The brand monitoring platform comprises an information acquisition module an industry identification module a category generation module a sorting module a scoring module a configuration module and a brand information database . Furthermore the brand monitoring platform provides a graphical user interface GUI for acquiring input information on a brand for acquiring categories from one or more users for sorting social media information acquired from one or more social media sources for displaying an aggregate score and a brand rank received by a particular brand in relation to all the competing brands in a particular industry etc. The GUI comprises a set of web pages hosted on a server associated with the brand monitoring platform .

The information acquisition module acquires input information on the brand for example from one or more online resources inputs provided by the user via the GUI etc. The industry identification module identifies industries related to the brand and competing brands in the identified industries using the acquired input information on the brand. The information acquisition module acquires social media information related to the brand and the competing brands in the identified industries from multiple social media sources in the virtual social media environment via a network . The network is for example the internet an intranet a local area network a wide area network a communication network implementing WiFi of the Wireless Ethernet Compatibility Alliance Inc. a cellular network a mobile communication network such as a global system for mobile communications GSM network a general packet radio service GPRS network etc.

The category generation module dynamically generates categories for example a location of each of the identified industries related to the brand and each of the competing brands a location of each of multiple authors of the social media information types of social media sources utilized by the brand and each of the competing brands marketing elements etc. in one or more hierarchical levels in each of the identified industries based on an independent analysis of the acquired social media information related to the brand and the competing brands from each of the social media sources. In an embodiment the category generation module determines clusters of similar content portions from the acquired social media information and identifies one or more common categories applicable to the brand and each of the competing brands in each of the identified industries from the determined clusters of the similar content portions during the independent analysis of the acquired social media information related to the brand and the competing brands from each of the social media sources for the dynamic generation of the categories.

The sorting module sorts the acquired social media information related to the brand and the competing brands in each of the identified industries into one or more dynamically generated categories in one or more of the hierarchical levels using a sorting interface . The sorting interface is hosted on the GUI . In an embodiment the sorting module acquires inputs for sorting of the acquired social media information related to the brand and the competing brands in each of the identified industries into one or more of the dynamically generated categories in one or more hierarchical levels from a user via the sorting interface

The configuration module configures one or more of the weighted audience score metric parameters and one or more of the weighted engagement score metric parameters for determination of the audience score and the engagement score respectively based on predetermined criteria. The scoring module determines an audience score for the brand and each of the competing brands by measuring an aggregate reach of the brand and each of the competing brands in the virtual social media environment based on one or more of multiple weighted audience score metric parameters using the sorted social media information as disclosed in the detailed description of and . In an embodiment the scoring module normalizes measures corresponding to each of the audience score metric parameters. The scoring module assigns individual weights to the audience score metric parameters. The scoring module determines a weighted average of the normalized measures corresponding to each of the audience score metric parameters using the assigned individual weights for determination of the audience score for the brand and each of the competing brands.

The scoring module determines an engagement score for the brand and each of the competing brands by measuring interaction between the brand and each of the competing brands with their corresponding followers based on one or more of multiple weighted engagement score metric parameters using the sorted social media information as disclosed in the detailed description of and . In an embodiment the scoring module determines the engagement score for the brand and each of the competing brands by normalizing measures corresponding to each of the engagement score metric parameters. The scoring module assigns individual weights to the engagement score metric parameters. The scoring module determines a weighted average of the normalized measures corresponding to each of the engagement score metric parameters using the assigned individual weights for the determination of the engagement score for the brand and each of the competing brands.

In an embodiment the scoring module normalizes measures corresponding to one or more audience score metric parameters and one or more engagement score metric parameters based on a location of each of the identified industries related to the brand and each of the competing brands during the determination of the audience score and said engagement score respectively for the brand and each of the competing brands for reducing statistical differences in the measures triggered by a difference of the location of each of the identified industries related to the brand and the competing brands. In an embodiment the scoring module normalizes measures corresponding to each of the weighted audience score metric parameters for removing statistical differences between extreme measures corresponding to each of the weighted audience score metric parameters and for reducing outlier data. In an embodiment the scoring module normalizes measures corresponding to each of the weighted engagement score metric parameters for removing statistical differences between extreme measures corresponding to each of the weighted engagement score metric parameters and for reducing outlier data.

The scoring module generates an aggregate score for the brand and each of the competing brands using the determined audience score and the determined engagement score. In an embodiment the scoring module generates the aggregate score for the brand and each of the competing brands by determining a weighted average of the determined audience score and the determined engagement score. Furthermore the scoring module assigns a rank to the brand and each of the competing brands based on the aggregate score for benchmarking the brand based on the social media strength of the brand in comparison with the competing brands in the virtual social media environment. The brand information database is for example a component of a relational database management system that stores the input information on the brands the social media information acquired from multiple social media sources statistical information mapped to audience score metric parameters and engagement score metric parameters the audience score and the engagement score for each of the brands across multiple industries the aggregate score and the brand rank of each of the brands etc. In an embodiment the brand monitoring platform periodically tracks and updates changes to the social media information in the brand information database and updates the aggregate score and the brand rank for each of the brands in a particular industry and or in a particular geographical location.

The brand monitoring platform communicates with a computing device of a user authorized to update the brand information database in the brand monitoring platform via a network . The network is for example a short range network or a long range network. The network is for example the internet a local area network a wide area network a wireless network a mobile communication network etc. The computer system comprises for example a processor a memory unit for storing programs and data an input output I O controller a network interface a data bus a display unit input devices a fixed media drive a removable media drive for receiving removable media output devices etc.

The processor is an electronic circuit that executes computer programs. The memory unit is used for storing computer programs applications and data. For example the information acquisition module the industry identification module the category generation module the sorting module the scoring module the configuration module etc. of the brand monitoring platform are stored in the memory unit of the computer system of the brand monitoring platform . The memory unit is for example a random access memory RAM or another type of dynamic storage device that stores information and instructions for execution by the processor . The memory unit also stores temporary variables and other intermediate information used during execution of instructions by the processor . The computer system further comprises a read only memory ROM or another type of static storage device that stores static information and instructions for the processor .

The network interface enables connection of the computer system to the network . For example the brand monitoring platform connects to the network via the network interface . The network interface comprises for example an infrared IR interface an interface implementing Wi Fi of the Wireless Ethernet Compatibility Alliance Inc. a universal serial bus USB interface a local area network LAN interface a wide area network WAN interface etc. The I O controller controls input actions for example manual tagging actions and output actions performed by the brand monitoring platform . The data bus permits communications between the modules for example etc. of the brand monitoring platform .

The display unit of the brand monitoring platform via the graphical user interface GUI displays information for example the aggregate score and the brand rank of a particular brand and each of the competing brands in an industry. Furthermore the display unit of the brand monitoring platform displays the hierarchical levels of categories dynamically generated by the brand monitoring platform and sorting interfaces for manually tagging one or more posts from the social media information to the categories and sub categories generated by the brand monitoring platform . The input devices are used for inputting data into the computer system . The user uses the input devices to provide inputs to the brand monitoring platform . For example a user may drag and drop a particular post collected as part of the social media information to one or more categories dynamically generated by the brand monitoring platform via the sorting interface . The input devices are for example a keyboard such as an alphanumeric keyboard a joystick a pointing device such as a computer mouse a touch pad a light pen etc.

The output devices output the results of operations performed by the brand monitoring platform . For example the brand monitoring platform notifies changes to the aggregate score or the brand rank of each of the brands in a particular industry on receiving updates to the brand information over a predetermined duration of time to all the brand owners and brand communities associated with each of the brands through a display notification on the GUI of the brand monitoring platform .

Computer applications and computer programs are used for operating the computer system . The computer programs are loaded onto the fixed media drive and into the memory unit of the computer system via the removable media drive . In an embodiment the computer applications and the computer programs may be loaded directly into the computer system via the network . Computer applications and computer programs are executed by double clicking a related icon displayed on the display unit using one of the input devices .

The computer system employs an operating system for performing multiple tasks. The operating system is responsible for management and coordination of activities and sharing of resources of the computer system . The operating system further manages security of the computer system peripheral devices connected to the computer system and network connections. The operating system employed on the computer system recognizes for example inputs provided by a user using one of the input devices the output display files and directories stored locally on the fixed media drive for example a hard drive. The operating system on the computer system executes different computer programs using the processor .

The processor retrieves the instructions for executing the modules for example etc. of the brand monitoring platform from the memory unit . A program counter determines the location of the instructions in the memory unit . The program counter stores a number that identifies the current position in the computer program of each the modules for example etc. of the brand monitoring platform .

The instructions fetched by the processor from the memory unit after being processed are decoded. The instructions are placed in an instruction register in the processor . After processing and decoding the processor executes the instructions. For example the information acquisition module defines instructions for acquiring input information on the brand. The industry identification module defines instructions for identifying industries related to the brand and competing brands in the identified industries using the acquired input information on the brand. The information acquisition module defines instructions for acquiring social media information related to the brand and the competing brands in the identified industries from multiple social media sources in the virtual social media environment via a network .

The category generation module defines instructions for dynamically generating categories in one or more hierarchical levels in each of the identified industries based on an independent analysis of the acquired social media information related to the brand and competing brands from each of the social media sources. In an embodiment the category generation module defines instructions for determining clusters of similar content portions from the acquired social media information and for identifying one or more common categories applicable to the brand and each of the competing brands in each of the identified industries from the determined clusters of similar content portions during the independent analysis of the acquired social media information related to the brand and the competing brands from each of the social media sources for dynamic generation of the categories.

The sorting module defines instructions for sorting the acquired social media information related to the brand and the competing brands in each of the identified industries into one or more dynamically generated categories in one or more hierarchical levels using the sorting interface . Furthermore the sorting module defines instructions for acquiring inputs for sorting of the acquired social media information related to the brand and the competing brands in each of the identified industries into one or more of the dynamically generated categories in one or more hierarchical levels from a user via the sorting interface

The configuration module defines instructions for configuring one or more weighted audience score metric parameters and one or more weighted engagement score metric parameters for the determination of the audience score and the engagement score respectively based on predetermined criteria. The scoring module defines instructions for determining an audience score for the brand and each of the competing brands by measuring an aggregate reach of the brand and each of the competing brands in the virtual social media environment based on one or more weighted audience score metric parameters using the sorted social media information. Furthermore the scoring module defines instructions for normalizing measures corresponding to each of the audience score metric parameters for assigning individual weights to the audience score metric parameters and for determining a weighted average of the normalized measures corresponding to each of the audience score metric parameters using the assigned individual weights for determining the audience score for the brand and each of the competing brands.

The scoring module defines instructions for determining an engagement score for the brand and each of the competing brands by measuring interaction between the brand and each of the competing brands and their followers based on one or more weighted engagement score metric parameters using the sorted social media information. The scoring module defines instructions for normalizing measures corresponding to each of the engagement score metric parameters for assigning individual weights to the engagement score metric parameters and for determining a weighted average of the normalized measures corresponding to each of the engagement score metric parameters using the assigned individual weights for determining the engagement score for the brand and each of the competing brands.

Furthermore the scoring module defines instructions for normalizing measures corresponding to one or more audience score metric parameters and one or more engagement score metric parameters based on a location of each of the identified industries related to the brand and each of the competing brands during the determination of the audience score and the engagement score respectively for the brand and each of the competing brands for reducing statistical differences in the measures triggered by a difference of the location of each of the identified industries related to the brand and each of the competing brands. The scoring module defines instructions for normalizing measures corresponding to each of the weighted audience score metric parameters for reducing statistical differences between extreme measures corresponding to each of the weighted audience score metric parameters and for reducing outlier data. The scoring module defines instructions for normalizing measures corresponding to each of the weighted engagement score metric parameters for reducing statistical differences between extreme measures corresponding to each of the weighted engagement score metric parameters and for reducing outlier data.

The scoring module defines instructions for generating an aggregate score for the brand and each of the competing brands using the determined audience score and the determined engagement score. The scoring module defines instructions for determining a weighted average of the determined audience score and the determined engagement score for generating the aggregate score for the brand and each of the competing brands. Furthermore the scoring module defines instructions for assigning a rank to the brand and each of the competing brands based on the aggregate score for benchmarking of the brand based on the social media strength of the brand in comparison with the competing brands in the virtual social media environment.

The processor of the computer system employed by the brand monitoring platform retrieves the instructions defined by the information acquisition module the industry identification module the category generation module the sorting module the scoring module and the configuration module of the brand monitoring platform and executes the instructions. At the time of execution the instructions stored in the instruction register are examined to determine the operations to be performed. The processor then performs the specified operations. The operations comprise arithmetic operations and logic operations. The operating system performs multiple routines for performing a number of tasks required to assign the input devices the output devices and memory for execution of the modules for example etc. of the brand monitoring platform . The tasks performed by the operating system comprise for example assigning memory to the modules for example etc. of the brand monitoring platform and to data used by the brand monitoring platform moving data between the memory unit and disk units and handling input output operations. The operating system performs the tasks on request by the operations and after performing the tasks the operating system transfers the execution control back to the processor . The processor continues the execution to obtain one or more outputs. The outputs of the execution of the modules for example etc. of the brand monitoring platform are displayed to the user on the display unit .

For purposes of illustration the detailed description refers to the brand monitoring platform being run locally on a computer system however the scope of the computer implemented method and system disclosed herein is not limited to the brand monitoring platform being run locally on the computer system via the operating system and the processor but may be extended to run remotely over the network by employing a web browser and a remote server a mobile phone or other electronic devices.

Disclosed herein is also a computer program product comprising a non transitory computer readable storage medium that stores computer program codes comprising instructions executable by at least one processor for benchmarking a brand based on the social media strength of the brand. As used herein the term non transitory computer readable storage medium refers to all computer readable media for example non volatile media such as optical disks or magnetic disks volatile media such as a register memory a processor cache etc. and transmission media such as wires that constitute a system bus coupled to the processor except for a transitory propagating signal.

The computer program product disclosed herein comprises one or more computer program codes for benchmarking a brand based on the social media strength of the brand. The computer program codes comprise a first computer program code for acquiring input information on a brand a second computer program code for identifying industries related to the brand and competing brands in the identified industries using the acquired input information on the brand a third computer program code for acquiring social media information related to the brand and the competing brands in the identified industries from multiple social media sources in the virtual social media environment via a network a fourth computer program code for dynamically generating categories in one or more hierarchical levels in each of the identified industries based on an independent analysis of the acquired social media information related to the brand and the competing brands from each of the social media sources a fifth computer program code for sorting the acquired social media information related to the brand and the competing brands in each of the identified industries into one or more of the dynamically generated categories in one or more hierarchical levels using the sorting interface a sixth computer program code for determining an audience score for the brand and each of the competing brands by measuring an aggregate reach of the brand and each of the competing brands in the virtual social media environment based on one or more of multiple weighted audience score metric parameters using the sorted social media information a seventh computer program code for determining an engagement score for the brand and each of the competing brands by measuring interaction between the brand and each of the competing brands and their corresponding followers based on one or more of multiple weighted engagement score metric parameters using the sorted social media information and an eighth computer program code for generating an aggregate score for the brand and each of the competing brands using the determined audience score and the determined engagement score. The computer program product disclosed herein further comprises additional computer program codes for performing additional steps that may be required and contemplated for benchmarking the brand based on the social media strength of the brand. In an embodiment a single piece of computer program code comprising computer executable instructions performs one or more steps of the computer implemented method disclosed herein for benchmarking the brand based on the social media strength of the brand.

The computer program codes comprising computer executable instructions are embodied on the non transitory computer readable storage medium. The processor of the computer system retrieves these computer executable instructions and executes them. When the computer executable instructions are executed by the processor the computer executable instructions cause the processor to perform the steps of the computer implemented method for benchmarking the brand based on the social media strength of the brand in comparison with the competing brands in the virtual social media environment.

It will be readily apparent that the various methods and algorithms disclosed herein may be implemented on computer readable media appropriately programmed for general purpose computers and computing devices. As used herein the term computer readable media refers to non transitory computer readable media that participate in providing data for example instructions that may be read by a computer a processor or a like device. Non transitory computer readable media comprise all computer readable media for example non volatile media volatile media and transmission media except for a transitory propagating signal. Non volatile media comprise for example optical disks or magnetic disks and other persistent memory volatile media including a dynamic random access memory DRAM which typically constitutes a main memory. Volatile media comprise for example a register memory a processor cache a random access memory RAM etc. Transmission media comprise for example coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including wires that constitute a system bus coupled to a processor. Common forms of computer readable media comprise for example a floppy disk a flexible disk a hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium a compact disc read only memory CD ROM a digital versatile disc DVD any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes a random access memory RAM a programmable read only memory PROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM an electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM a flash memory any other memory chip or cartridge or any other medium from which a computer can read. A processor refers to any one or more microprocessors central processing unit CPU devices computing devices microcontrollers digital signal processors or like devices. Typically a processor receives instructions from a memory or like device and executes those instructions thereby performing one or more processes defined by those instructions. Further programs that implement such methods and algorithms may be stored and transmitted using a variety of media for example the computer readable media in a number of manners. In an embodiment hard wired circuitry or custom hardware may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions for implementation of the processes of various embodiments. Therefore the embodiments are not limited to any specific combination of hardware and software. In general the computer program codes comprising computer executable instructions may be implemented in any programming language. Some examples of languages that can be used comprise C C C Perl Python or JAVA. The computer program codes or software programs may be stored on or in one or more mediums as object code. The computer program product disclosed herein comprises computer executable instructions embodied in a non transitory computer readable storage medium wherein the computer program product comprises computer program codes for implementing the processes of various embodiments.

Where databases are described such as the brand information database it will be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art that i alternative database structures to those described may be readily employed and ii other memory structures besides databases may be readily employed. Any illustrations or descriptions of any sample databases disclosed herein are illustrative arrangements for stored representations of information. Any number of other arrangements may be employed besides those suggested by tables illustrated in the drawings or elsewhere. Similarly any illustrated entries of the databases represent exemplary information only one of ordinary skill in the art will understand that the number and content of the entries can be different from those disclosed herein. Further despite any depiction of the databases as tables other formats including relational databases object based models and or distributed databases may be used to store and manipulate the data types disclosed herein. Likewise object methods or behaviors of a database can be used to implement various processes such as those disclosed herein. In addition the databases may in a known manner be stored locally or remotely from a device that accesses data in such a database. In embodiments where there are multiple databases in the system the databases may be integrated to communicate with each other for enabling simultaneous updates of data linked across the databases when there are any updates to the data in one of the databases.

The present invention can be configured to work in a network environment including a computer that is in communication with one or more devices via a communication network. The computer may communicate with the devices directly or indirectly via a wired medium or a wireless medium such as the Internet a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN or the Ethernet token ring or via any appropriate communications means or combination of communications means. Each of the devices may comprise computers such as those based on the Intel processors AMD processors UltraSPARC processors IBM processors etc. that are adapted to communicate with the computer. Any number and type of machines may be in communication with the computer.

The foregoing examples have been provided merely for the purpose of explanation and are in no way to be construed as limiting of the present invention disclosed herein. While the invention has been described with reference to various embodiments it is understood that the words which have been used herein are words of description and illustration rather than words of limitation. Further although the invention has been described herein with reference to particular means materials and embodiments the invention is not intended to be limited to the particulars disclosed herein rather the invention extends to all functionally equivalent structures methods and uses such as are within the scope of the appended claims. Those skilled in the art having the benefit of the teachings of this specification may affect numerous modifications thereto and changes may be made without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention in its aspects.

