---

title: Controlling data access and rate in a network
abstract: Concepts and technologies are disclosed herein for controlling data access and rate in a network. An enforcement application can detect a request for a data session and determine how and when the requested data session is to be established. The enforcement application can consider various data, input obtained at the user device, and/or other considerations including subscriber data and network data. Based upon these data, the enforcement application can determine network congestion, available resources, available bandwidth, an allocation rate of congestion credits (“credits”) for the user, a flow rate of the credits from an account to a credit pool, and a usage rate of the credits from the credit pool. The enforcement application can be configured to enforce the usage rate against a data session and to issue one or more commands to control the data session.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09647946&OS=09647946&RS=09647946
owner: AT&T Intellectual Property I, L.P.
number: 09647946
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121127
---
This application relates generally to network control. More specifically the disclosure provided herein relates to controlling data access and rate in a network.

In some modern communication networks such as some cellular networks data communications have become even more prevalent than voice communications. As such some communication network operators have recently shifted network growth efforts from increasing capacity for voice communications to efforts for growing data communications portions of the communication networks in an effort to provide customers with quick and reliable data communications. Notwithstanding network operators efforts to increase the capacity of data portions of these communications networks congestion continues to be a problem for many network operators.

Some communications networks may process millions or even billions of requests for data communications per day. The requests for data communications can effectively ask the network to establish a data session between the requestor and some source of data such as a media server an email server or the like. The network may or may not inspect the requests to determine priority and or importance of the requests. Rather the network may simply establish the requested session on a first come first served basis.

While network traffic is relatively predictable current events or other trends may cause temporary or even prolonged spikes in data traffic. These spikes may be difficult to predict. Additionally because data resources of the network typically are finite there may be no way to quickly adjust network operations to accommodate such a spike in data traffic. Furthermore users sometimes pay for and expect reliable and fast data communications. These users expect their data sessions to begin almost immediately. Because the users may not be aware of network congestion at any given time these users expect data delivery to be consistent and any delay or performance degradation can affect a user s perception of the network provider. Thus network congestion can not only affect performance of the network but also can affect user satisfaction with the network in general.

The present disclosure is directed to controlling data access and rate in a network. An application or service such as an application executing at a user device can request data from a data source by way of a request. The user device can transmit the request to the data source. An enforcement application executing at a server computer can be configured to detect the request and or to be called or accessed by the data source to determine how and when the data source is to respond to the request. The enforcement application can be configured to use congestion credits credits to control the requested data session based upon various data input obtained at the user device and or other considerations.

In particular the enforcement application can be configured to obtain subscriber data and network data. Based upon these data the enforcement application can determine network congestion available resources available bandwidth a credit allocation rate allocation rate of credits for the user a credit flow rate flow rate of the credits from an account to a credit pool and a credit usage rate usage rate of the credits from the credit pool. In some embodiments charging and billing systems can be configured to communicate with the user device to determine the usage rate and the charging and billing systems can provide that information to the enforcement application as part of the subscriber data. In some embodiments the charging and billing systems can generate one or more usage rate options and transmit the options to the user device as or within options data that can be presented at the user device. A selection or decision relating to the options can be represented in traffic management data generated at the user device and transmitted to the charging and billing systems.

The enforcement application can be configured to enforce the usage rate against a data session. The enforcement application also can be configured to issue one or more commands to the data source to control the data session. For example the enforcement application can monitor the credit pool and apply the usage rate to the credit pool. If the credit pool runs out of credits the enforcement application can issue commands to terminate the data session to order a query to the user device to determine if a user wants to buy more credits to change a guaranteed or applied QoS and or other quality aspect of the data session and or to take other actions. As such the enforcement application can use credits to control data access in networks. The functionality of the enforcement application described herein also can be used to reward good behavior on a network such as not using congested resources.

According to one aspect of the concepts and technologies disclosed herein a device is disclosed. The device can include a processor and a memory storing computer executable instructions. When the computer executable instructions are executed by the processor the processor can detect a data session request prompt at the device for a traffic control decision specifying a credit usage rate obtain the traffic control decision at the device generate traffic management data including an indication of the traffic control decision and provide the traffic management data to a network device.

According to some embodiments the device can be configured to obtain options data from a charging and billing system the options data specifying an option including the credit usage rate present the options data in a user interface and detect a selection of the option via the user interface. The user interface can include a UI control for presenting an option including the credit usage rate and a further UI control for presenting a further option including a further credit usage rate. The device also can be configured to present a user interface for viewing options associated with a credit account used to control network access. The user interface can include a field for presenting a credit balance in the credit account a further field for presenting accredit subscription plan associated with the credit account the credit subscription plan including a credit allocation rate a UI control for purchasing credits and a further UI control for modifying the credit subscription plan.

According to another aspect of the concepts and technologies disclosed herein a method is disclosed. The method can include detecting a data session request the data session request including a request for a data session between a data source and a user device obtaining at a server computer executing an enforcement application network data indicating a network condition determining based at least partially upon the network data a credit usage rate and applying the credit usage rate during a data session.

In some embodiments the method can include obtaining subscriber data and determining based at least partially upon the subscriber data the credit usage rate. The subscriber data can include subscriber information and a credit subscription plan. In some embodiments the subscriber data can include the credit usage rate wherein the credit usage rate can be obtained from the user device. In some embodiments determining the credit usage rate can include generating a data session credit usage rate option transmitting the data session credit usage rate option to the user device and obtaining a selection of the data session credit usage rate from the user device.

In some embodiments applying the credit usage rate further can include determining a time associated with the credit usage rate initiating a timer set to the time and determining if the time has passed. In response to a determination that the time has passed the method can include removing a credit from a credit pool associated with the user device. The method also can include determining if additional credits are available in an account associated with the user device and in response to a determination that additional credits are not available issuing a command to terminate the data session. In some embodiments the method can also include determining if additional credits are available in an account associated with the user device and in response to a determination that additional credits are not available issuing a command to generate a prompt at the user device to purchase additional credits. Applying the credit usage rate further can include allocating credits to a credit account associated with the user device at an allocation rate adding credits from the credit account to a credit pool at a flow rate and removing credits from the credit pool at the credit usage rate.

According to yet another aspect a computer storage medium is disclosed. The computer storage medium can have computer executable instructions stored thereon that when executed by a processor cause the processor to perform operations including detecting a request for a data session between a data source and a user device obtaining network data indicating a network condition determining based at least partially upon the network data a credit usage rate and applying the credit usage rate during a data session.

In some embodiments the operations can further include obtaining subscriber data including subscriber information and a credit subscription plan and determining based at least partially upon the subscriber data the credit usage rate. In some embodiments the subscriber data can include the credit usage rate. The credit usage rate can be obtained from the user device. In some embodiments determining the credit usage rate can include generating a data session credit usage rate option issuing a command to transmit the data session credit usage rate option to the user device and obtaining a selection of the data session credit usage rate from the user device.

In some embodiments the operations can also include determining a time associated with the credit usage rate initiating a timer set to the time determining if the time has passed and in response to a determination that the time has passed removing a credit from a credit pool associated with the user device. The operations also can include determining if additional credits are available in an account and in response to a determination that additional credits are not available in the account issuing a command to terminate the data session. Applying the credit usage rate during the data session can include allocating credits to a credit account associated with the user device at an allocation rate adding credits from the credit account to a credit pool at a flow rate and removing credits from the credit pool at the credit usage rate. In some embodiments the operations also can include determining a time associated with the credit usage rate initiating a timer set to the time determining if the time has passed and in response to a determination that the time has passed removing a credit from the credit pool associated with the user device.

The credit usage rate also can be defined in some embodiments as a number of bytes transferred. Thus a number of transferred bytes may cost one credit or the like. Thus some embodiments of the concepts and technologies disclosed herein can determine a number of bytes associated with the credit usage rate initiate a counter to count bytes transferred determine if the number of bytes have been transferred and in response to a determination that the number of bytes have been transferred removing a credit from the credit pool associated with the user device.

Other systems methods and or computer program products according to embodiments will be or become apparent to one with skill in the art upon review of the following drawings and detailed description. It is intended that all such additional systems methods and or computer program products be included within this description be within the scope of this disclosure.

The following detailed description is directed to controlling data access and rate in a network. According to various embodiments of the concepts and technologies disclosed herein a user device can request data from a data source by way of a request. The user device can transmit the request to the data source. An enforcement application executing at a server computer can be configured to detect the request and or to be called or accessed by the data source to determine how and when the data source is to respond to the request. The enforcement application can be configured to use credits to control the requested data session based upon various data input obtained at the user device and or other considerations.

In particular the enforcement application can be configured to obtain subscriber data and network data. Based upon these data the enforcement application can determine network congestion available resources available bandwidth an allocation rate of credits for the user a flow rate of the credits from an account to a credit pool and a usage rate of the credits from the credit pool. In some embodiments charging and billing systems can be configured to communicate with the user device to determine the usage rate and the charging and billing systems can provide that information to the enforcement application as part of the subscriber data. In some embodiments the charging and billing systems can generate one or more usage rate options and transmit the options to the user device as or within options data that can be presented at the user device. A selection or decision relating to the options can be represented in traffic management data generated at the user device and transmitted to the charging and billing systems.

The enforcement application can be configured to enforce the usage rate against a data session. The enforcement application also can be configured to issue one or more commands to the data source to control the data session. For example the enforcement application can monitor the credit pool and apply the usage rate to the credit pool. If the credit pool runs out of credits the enforcement application can issue commands to terminate the data session to order a query to the user device to determine if a user wants to buy more credits to change a guaranteed or applied QoS and or other quality aspect of the data session and or to take other actions. As such the enforcement application can use credits to control data access in networks.

While the subject matter described herein is presented in the general context of program modules that execute in conjunction with the execution of an operating system and application programs on a computer system those skilled in the art will recognize that other implementations may be performed in combination with other types of program modules. Generally program modules include routines programs components data structures and other types of structures that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Moreover those skilled in the art will appreciate that the subject matter described herein may be practiced with other computer system configurations including hand held devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics minicomputers mainframe computers and the like.

Referring now to aspects of an operating environment for various embodiments of the concepts and technologies disclosed herein for controlling data access and rate in a network will be described according to an illustrative embodiment. The operating environment shown in includes a user device operating in communication with and or as part of a communications network network . According to various embodiments the functionality of the user device can be provided by one or more mobile telephones smartphones or the like. The functionality of the user device also can be provided by one or more personal computers PCs server computers tablet computers laptop computers set top boxes other computing systems and the like. For purposes of describing the concepts and technologies disclosed herein the user device is described as a smartphone. It should be understood that this embodiment is illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

The user device can execute an operating system and one or more application programs such as a traffic control application . The operating system is a computer program for controlling the operation of the user device . The traffic control application is an executable program configured to execute on top of the operating system to provide various functionality described herein for controlling data access and rate in a network.

According to various embodiments the traffic control application can include or can be included as a part of a natively executed application a Web application and or another type of application. The traffic control application can be configured to control one or more aspects of a data session over which the user device uses obtains and or relies upon data obtained from one or more data sources . For example the traffic control application can control a data session used by a Web browser application executed at the user device to obtain the data from the data source wherein the data can correspond to a Web page multimedia content applications or the like. Because the data can be obtained from almost any type of data source it should be understood that these embodiments are illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

According to various embodiments the user device can generate one or more requests for the data and transmit the requests to the data source . For example the user device can access a resource hosted or provided by the data source and the request can therefore correspond to a request to access the resource. As such it should be understood that the user device can request access to the data in a number of ways such as for example accessing the data source to use or read the data requesting the data explicitly by way of a request and or in other ways. In response to receiving the requests the data source can provide the requested data by way of a data session between the data source and the user device . According to various embodiments of the concepts and technologies disclosed herein the user device and or other devices can be configured to control various aspects of the data session. In some embodiments described herein the data source can be configured to conduct the data session with the user device in accordance with one or more commands received from one or more network nodes devices or systems. The commands can set or define a bandwidth communication speed and or quality of service QoS of the data session. The determination of these and other aspects of the data session are described in more detail below.

In the embodiment shown in a policy enforcement application or module enforcement application can be hosted by a computing device such as for example a server computer . In some embodiments the enforcement application and the server computer can collectively provide functionality of a policy enforcement function PEF though this is not necessarily the case. The enforcement application can be configured to detect the requests received by the data source and to issue the commands for controlling one or more data sessions between the data source and the user device for example a data session for providing the data in response to one or more of the requests . It should be understood that these embodiments are illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

In some embodiments the enforcement application can be configured to enforce various communication policies on communications including but not limited to data communications between the user device and the data source . These communication policies can be based at least partially upon subscription plans network conditions traffic conditions user and or network communication limits available network resources other information combinations thereof or the like. According to some embodiments the enforcement application can be configured to track and enforce user congestion credit balances and or congestion credit accounts.

In particular the enforcement application can be configured to determine a user or device allotment of congestion credits credits which can be allocated to a user congestion credit allocation or account account . The credits can be allocated to the account at an allocation rate r. The allocation rate rcan correspond according to various implementations to a subscription plan for credits . Thus for example a user subscription or credit subscription can correspond to a daily monthly or yearly credit allocation rate r. In some embodiments for example the allocation rate rcan include five hundred credits per month one thousand credits per month five credits per week ten credits per day twenty five credits per day one credit per hour one credit per minute and or other numbers of credits per any desired measure of time. Because the allocation rate rcan be almost any number and almost any time measure it should be understood that these embodiments are illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

As shown in the credits can be allocated to the account at the allocation rate r. In the above example wherein the allocation rate rcorresponds to five hundred credits per month five hundred credits can be added to an account associated with a user at a designated time such as for example a particular day of the month a particular point of time in a billing cycle e.g. a month and or at other times. It should be understood that the enforcement application may or may not maintain an account for each user or device. Rather the enforcement application can obtain information such as for example a current balance an allocation rate r and an account balance to perform the functionality described herein.

According to various embodiments the enforcement application is configured to draw credits from the account associated with a user or device at a flow rate r. The credits drawn from the account can be moved into a credit pool associated with the user or device. As such the credits can flow from the account to the credit pool at the rate r. According to various embodiments the enforcement application moves the credits from the account to the credit pool during any times at which the user or device is not involved in a data session. In some other embodiments the enforcement application moves the credits from the account to the credit pool during a data session. In yet other embodiments the enforcement application moves the credits from the account to the credit pool during times at which the user or device is involved in a data session that does not involve congested network resources.

When the enforcement application begins monitoring a data session and or enforcing policies against a data session the enforcement application can be configured to remove credits from the credit pool at a usage rate r. The usage rate rcan be a variable rate that can be based at least partially upon network conditions user account information available resources available network quality of service network congestion network load traffic type and or category geographic location of the user device and or the data source between which the data session occurs whether a user or user device is roaming out of a home network access type e.g. secured unsecured or the like speed of the devices and or connections other considerations or the like as will be explained in more detail below. In some embodiments the usage rate rcan be expressed as a function of traffic type quality of service QoS level a network congestion level and or other considerations. As such in one contemplated embodiment the usage rate rcan be expressed as f g wherein can be a constant or variable for unit conversion and or scaling f can correspond to a function that represents a contribution or rate increase decrease due to the required QoS level e.g. providing data at twice the rate can be represented by an increase in this function etc. and g can correspond to a function of a congestion level and a traffic type . It should be understood that this embodiment is illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

The credits can be removed from the credit pool until the credits in the credit pool are exhausted. Because the credits can be added to the credit pool at the flow rate r it can be appreciated that the credit pool can operate in accordance with a leaky bucket model. As such the credits can be added to the credit pool at the flow rate rand removed from the credit pool at the usage rate r. The flow rate rand the usage rate rneed not be equal to one another. As such if the usage rate rexceeds the flow rate r the credits in the credit pool will eventually be exhausted. If the flow rate rexceeds the usage rate r the credits in the credit pool may never be exhausted.

According to various embodiments the credit pool can have a maximum capacity. The maximum capacity of the credit pool can be attained if the flow rate rexceeds the usage rate r if the credit pool is not being used and or for other reasons. If the maximum capacity of the credit pool is attained the enforcement application can be configured to suspend additions of the credits to the credit pool . Because credits may only flow into the credit pool during a data session the enforcement application can by way of the maximum capacity effectively cap the number of credits in the credit pool . As such the enforcement application can limit at least to some extent a number of credits that can be used during a particular data session and as such a user s or device s access to congested network resources.

As noted above the enforcement application can be configured to consider a number of states operating characteristics and or other conditions when determining how to enforce policies against a user device or data session associated with a user or device. In various embodiments the enforcement application can be configured to obtain subscriber data . In some embodiments the subscriber data can be obtained from one or more charging and billing systems . The subscriber data also can include subscriber information which can be stored at and or obtained from a data storage device such as a data store . Thus it can be appreciated that the subscriber data can include subscription information usage information user information account balances allocation rates r QoS information flow rates r usage rates r policies associated with users and or devices combinations thereof or the like.

In some embodiments the functionality of the data store can be provided by one or more real or virtual resources including but not limited to databases server computers desktop computers mobile telephones laptop computers other computing systems and the like. In some embodiments the data store can correspond to a subscriber information repository or database though this is not the case. In the illustrated embodiments the functionality of the data store is provided by a database hosted on a server computer. It should be understood that this embodiment is illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

As is explained in more detail below particular with reference to the charging and billing systems can be configured to communicate with the user device to obtain traffic management data and or include at least a portion of the traffic management data in the subscriber data . The traffic management data can include user preferences options and or settings such as for example data usage options or the like. The traffic management data also can include user selections and or traffic management decisions which can be made at the user device before during and or after initiation of a data session.

In addition to the subscriber data the enforcement application also can be configured to obtain network information statistics and or analytics network data . In particular the enforcement application can be configured to obtain receive and or request network data that can be analyzed and or interpreted by the enforcement application to determine network congestion and or other conditions that may affect policies enforced against the user device and or data session requested by the requests . The network data can be obtained from one or more network reporting systems or devices network reporting device . The network reporting device can include various devices systems reporting mechanisms network control systems or the like.

In some embodiments the enforcement application can be configured to detect a data session request such as the request and to determine based upon various data including but not limited to the subscriber data and the network data how a data session requested by the data session request is to be established. In other words the enforcement application can determine one or more options for the data session with regard to QoS levels timing devices to be used usage rates r other factors or the like. The charging and billing systems can determine one or more data session options that include for example a QoS determination a usage rate rdetermination and or the like and transmit these options to the user device for a decision. The options can be transmitted to the user device as options data . The traffic control application can load the options data into a user interface for presentation at the user device obtain a selection of an option generate the traffic management data that includes the selection and transmit the traffic management data to the charging and billing systems .

The charging and billing systems can update the subscriber data in accordance with the selection at the user device and the enforcement application can enforce the determined policies on the data session. During enforcement the enforcement application can apply the determined usage rate rand monitor the credit pool . The enforcement application also can issue commands to control the data session based upon the monitoring. These and other aspects of enforcement are described in additional detail below particularly with reference to .

In operation of various embodiments of the concepts and technologies disclosed herein an application or service requests data . For example an application program executing at the user device can request data from a data source by way of a request which the user device can transmit to the data source . The data source can be configured to call or access the enforcement application and or to provide the functionality described herein with respect to the enforcement application . For example the enforcement application can be called or accessed by way of one or more application programming interfaces APIs exposed by the enforcement application and or a device executing the enforcement application such as for example the server computer .

In some other embodiments the enforcement application can be configured to enforce policies against a user device and or data session without being called and or otherwise requested. In some other embodiments the data source and or an application or service executing on or in association with the data source or elsewhere can be configured to provide the functionality of the enforcement application and or to call or access the enforcement application . Thus it should be understood that the enforcement application can operate as an application on one or more devices and or can operate as a service and can respond to calls from various entities or devices such as for example the data source .

The enforcement application can be configured to obtain subscriber data and network data to determine an allocation rate r a flow rate r and a usage rate r. In some embodiments the charging and billing systems can be configured to communicate with the user device during setup of the data session and or at other times during the data session to determine the usage rate rand or other rates associated with the functionality of the enforcement application described herein. In particular the charging and billing systems can generate one or more usage rate options and transmit the options to the user device as the options data . The traffic control application can load the options data into a display and obtain a selection from the user or other entity at the user device . The selection or decision can be represented in traffic management data generated at the user device and transmitted to the charging and billing systems .

The enforcement application can begin enforcing the usage rate r the flow rate r and or the allocation rate rbased upon the network data and the subscriber data . It can be appreciated that in various embodiments the usage rate rcan be higher at times of network congestion relative to a lower usage rate rat a time of relatively lower network congestion. As such the usage rate rcan be a dynamic value or function that can be used to dynamically control data access based upon network congestion traffic type and or other factors as explained herein. The usage rate ralso can be changed during a data session in response to changing network conditions either by the enforcement application without user input and or by sending options data to the user device for a determination as explained above. Because other considerations can be used to raise and or lower usage rates r it should be understood that these embodiments are illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

Based upon the usage rate r the subscriber data the network data and credit balances the enforcement application can issue one or more commands to the data source to control the data session. For example during the data session the enforcement application can monitor the credit pool . If the credit pool runs out of credits the enforcement application can issue commands to terminate the data session ask a user to purchase more credits change a guaranteed or applied QoS and or other quality aspect of the data session take other actions or the like. As such the enforcement application can issue a command to terminate the data session. Because the commands can be issued at other times and or under other circumstances it should be understood that these embodiments are illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

Turning now to aspects of a method for generating traffic management data will be described in detail according to an illustrative embodiment. It should be understood that the operations of the methods disclosed herein are not necessarily presented in any particular order and that performance of some or all of the operations in an alternative order s is possible and is contemplated. The operations have been presented in the demonstrated order for ease of description and illustration. Operations may be added omitted and or performed simultaneously without departing from the scope of the concepts and technologies disclosed herein.

It also should be understood that the methods disclosed herein can be ended at any time and need not be performed in its entirety. Some or all operations of the methods and or substantially equivalent operations can be performed by execution of computer readable instructions included on a computer storage media as defined herein. The term computer readable instructions and variants thereof as used herein is used expansively to include routines applications application modules program modules programs components data structures algorithms and the like. Computer readable instructions can be implemented on various system configurations including single processor or multiprocessor systems minicomputers mainframe computers personal computers hand held computing devices microprocessor based programmable consumer electronics combinations thereof and the like.

Thus it should be appreciated that the logical operations described herein are implemented 1 as a sequence of computer implemented acts or program modules running on a computing system and or 2 as interconnected machine logic circuits or circuit modules within the computing system. The implementation is a matter of choice dependent on the performance and other requirements of the computing system. Accordingly the logical operations described herein are referred to variously as states operations structural devices acts or modules. These states operations structural devices acts and modules may be implemented in software in firmware in special purpose digital logic and any combination thereof. As used herein the phrase cause a processor to perform operations and variants thereof is used to refer to causing a processor of a computing system or device such as the user device and or the server computer to perform one or more operations and or causing the processor to direct other components of the computing system or device to perform one or more of the operations.

For purposes of illustrating and describing the concepts of the present disclosure the methods disclosed herein are described as being performed by the user device via execution of one or more software modules such as for example the traffic control application . It should be understood that additional and or alternative devices and or network nodes can provide the functionality described herein via execution of one or more modules applications and or other software including but not limited to the traffic control application . Thus the illustrated embodiments are illustrative and should not be viewed as being limiting in any way.

The method begins at operation wherein the user device detects a data session request or generates a request to begin a data session. Detecting the data session request in operation can correspond to detecting that the user device has requested data from the data source that the user device has initiated an application program that uses data from the data source that the user device has requested access to the data source that the user device has submitted data to the data source and or detecting other data communications between the user device and the data source that can correspond to initiation of a data session. It should be understood that that the data session request detected in operation can correspond to any type of request for data communications between one or more devices operating on or in communication with the network . As such it should be understood that the above example embodiments are illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

From operation the method proceeds to operation wherein the user device prompts for one or more traffic control decisions. As explained above and as will be illustrated and described below with reference to the user device can be configured to obtain options data from the charging and billing systems . The options data can include one or more data session options for presentation at the user device .

In particular the user device can be configured to execute the traffic control application to generate and or present a display screen and or other user interface for presenting the one or more data session options included in the options data . Similarly the user device can be configured to obtaining a choice decision or selection referred to herein as a traffic control decision . The traffic control decision can indicate a decision selection or choice regarding a QoS for the data session a credit usage rate r other rates or the like. Thus while not explicitly shown in the user device can obtain the options data and generate one or more for presentation at the user device .

From operation the method proceeds to operation wherein the user device can generate the traffic management data for communication to the charging and billing systems . The traffic management data generated in operation can include the choice or selection made at the user device in operation . As explained above with reference to the traffic management data generated by the user device also can include account options or settings such as for example subscription plan information or the like though this information may or may not be included in the traffic management data generated in operation .

From operation the method proceeds to operation wherein the user device can provide the traffic management data to one or more entities. In various embodiments the user device can provide the traffic management data to the charging and billing systems and or other nodes or entities for use in generating enforcement decisions. As such the method can be executed by the user device to prompt a user for a data session option and to communicate a choice or decision of the user to a network device or other entity.

Turning now to aspects of a method for controlling network traffic will be described in detail according to an illustrative embodiment. For purposes of illustrating and describing the concepts of the present disclosure the method is described as being performed by the server computer via execution of one or more software modules such as for example the enforcement application . It should be understood that additional and or alternative devices and or network nodes can provide the functionality described herein via execution of one or more modules applications and or other software including but not limited to the enforcement application . Thus the illustrated embodiments are illustrative and should not be viewed as being limiting in any way.

The method begins at operation wherein the server computer detects a data session request. As explained above in detail detecting the data request in operation can correspond to detecting at the server computer that a device such as the user device has requested data from the data source and or detecting other data communications between the user device and the data source . It should be understood that that the data request detected in operation can correspond to any type of request for data communications between one or more devices operating on or in communication with the network . As such it should be understood that the above example embodiments are illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

From operation the method proceeds to operation wherein the server computer obtains network data and or other network or traffic information and or analytics. In some embodiments one or more reporting mechanisms such as the network reporting device can submit network data such as the network data to the server computer . In some other embodiments the server computer can request network data such as the network data from the one or more reporting mechanisms such as the network reporting device and receive the network data in response to the request.

As explained above the network data can include but is not limited to data indicating used and or available network bandwidth network congestion resource availability information other information combinations thereof or the like. Because other types of network data can be obtained in operation it should be understood that these embodiments are illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

From operation the method proceeds to operation wherein the server computer obtains subscriber data . As explained above the subscriber data obtained in operation can include subscription plans usage information usage limits credit balances and or rates associated with the credits other information relating to the user device or a user associated with the user device combinations thereof or the like. The subscriber data also can include information obtained by the charging and billing systems with regard to one or more data session options. As such it should be understood that the subscriber data obtained in operation can include and or can be based upon the traffic management data generated by the user device in the method described above. Because the subscriber data can include additional and or alternative information it should be understood that this embodiment is illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

From operation the method proceeds to operation wherein the server computer determines a usage rate r. The usage rage rdetermined by the server computer in operation can be based at least partially upon the subscriber data and or the network data . As such the usage rate rcan vary based upon network conditions subscription plans or the like. In some embodiments for example the usage rate rcan increase as network congestion increases and can decrease as network congestion decreases though this is not necessarily the case. Additionally as explained above the server computer can determine the usage rate rbased upon a user selection. As such a user can select a usage rate rfor a particular data session if desired and the server computer can use that usage rate rduring the data session. Additional details of a user selecting the usage rate rare explained below with reference to .

From operation the method proceeds to operation wherein the server computer can apply the usage rate rto the data session. According to various embodiments the server computer can monitor the credit pool and or a balance of credits in the credit pool . As a time corresponding to the usage rate rpasses the server computer can remove one credit from the credit pool . Thus for example if the usage rate rcorresponds to one credit per minute the server computer can maintain a timer. At the expiration of one minute the server computer can remove a credit from the credit pool and restart the timer. This can continue as long as the data session is in progress. Additional details of applying the usage rate rto the data session are illustrated and described below with reference to .

From operation the method proceeds to operation wherein the server computer can issue one or more commands . The commands issued by the server computer can cause the data source to initiate the data session continue the data session and or terminate the data session. The commands issued by the server computer also can prompt the data source to change a QoS associated with the data session and or otherwise to modify various aspects of the data session. Thus the commands can prompt the data source to allow restrict traffic associated with the data session in accordance with the usage rate rdetermined in operation .

Turning now to aspects of a method for applying the usage rate to the data session will be described in detail according to an illustrative embodiment. The functionality of the method can but does not necessarily correspond to operation of the method illustrated and described with reference to above. For purposes of illustrating and describing the concepts of the present disclosure the method is described as being performed by the server computer via execution of one or more software modules such as for example the enforcement application . It should be understood that additional and or alternative devices and or network nodes can provide the functionality described herein via execution of one or more modules applications and or other software including but not limited to the enforcement application . Thus the illustrated embodiments are illustrative and should not be viewed as being limiting in any way.

The method begins at operation wherein the server computer determines if a time associated with the usage rate rdetermined in operation of the method has passed. As mentioned above the server computer can maintain a timer. The server computer can determine a time corresponding to and or associated with the usage rate rdetermined in operation of the method described above. Thus for example if the usage rate is fifteen credits per minute the server computer can determine that the time associated with the usage rate ris four seconds. The server computer can start the timer and at the expiration of the timer the server computer can determine that the time associated with the usage rate rhas passed. Because other usage rates rare possible and are contemplated it should be understood that this example is illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

If the server computer determines in operation that the time associated with the usage rate rhas not passed the method can return to operation . As such it can be appreciated that execution of the method can pause and or reiterate operation until the server computer determines in any iteration of operation that the time associated with the usage rate rhas passed. If the server computer determines in operation that the time associated with the usage rate rhas passed the method can proceed to operation .

In operation the server computer determines if additional credits are available in the credit pool associated with the user device and or a user of the user device . If the server computer determines in operation that one or more additional credits are available in the credit pool the method can proceed to operation . In operation the server computer can remove a credit from the credit pool . Therefore it can be appreciated that by executing operations the server computer can remove a credit from the credit pool at a rate that is equal to the usage rate r. From operation the method can return to operation and the server computer can again determine if the time associated with the credit usage rate rhas passed. Although not shown in the server computer also can restart a timer if used before upon and or after returning to operation .

If the server computer determines in operation that additional credits are not available in the credit pool the method proceeds to operation . In operation the server computer can determine that the data session is to be terminated. Although not explicitly illustrated in it should be understood that server computer also can be configured to cause the charging and billing systems to communicate with the user device to prompt a user or other entity to buy additional credits . In some embodiments the server computer and or the charging and billing systems also can be configured to prompt a user to increase the flow rate rinstead of terminating the session as shown at operation . Thus instead of terminating a session due to determining that additional credits are not available in the credit pool the server computer and or other systems or devices can allow a user to modify the flow rate r buy additional credits and or take other actions to prevent termination of the session. As such the illustrated example of method should be understood as being one contemplated embodiment and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

While the method is described as using a usage rate rthat is time based it should be understood that other usage rates rare contemplated and are possible. In particular a usage rate rcan be defined as a number of request a number of bytes and or other numbers or amounts. Thus in some embodiments the method can track a number of bytes transferred instead of or in addition to tracking a time associated with the usage rate r. In one example embodiment the server computer can be configured to determine if a number of bytes associated with the usage rate rdetermined in operation of the method have been transferred. Thus for example if the usage rate is five hundred kilobytes the server computer can start a counter or request monitoring of a data stream to determine when five hundred kilobytes have been transferred. It should be understood that the usage rate rcan vary over time due to changing network conditions and as such the enforcement and or monitoring of the number of bytes can be adjusted based upon a variable usage rate rand or flow rate r.

When the specified number of bytes has been transferred the server computer can be configured to remove a credit from the credit pool as discussed above if credits remain in the credit pool . As explained above if credits do not remain in the credit pool the server computer can communicate with the user and or instruct other devices or systems such as the charging and billing systems to communicate with the user to increase the flow rate r purchase additional credits reduce the usage rate r and or take other actions. If the user declines to take any action the server computer can terminate the session. Thus it can be appreciated that various types of usage rates rcan be enforced by the server computer . Because the above example is illustrative of only one contemplated embodiment it should be understood that this example embodiment is illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

Turning now to UI diagrams showing various aspects of the concepts and technologies disclosed herein for controlling data access and rate in a network will be described according to various illustrative embodiments. shows an illustrative screen display A generated by a device such as the user device . According to various embodiments the user device can generate the screen display A and or other screen displays in conjunction with and or based upon data received from the traffic control application the enforcement application the charging and billing systems and or other devices or systems as described herein. As explained above the concepts and technologies disclosed herein for controlling data access and rate in a network can be provided by one or more applications or modules executed by the user device and or by a device remote from the user device such as for example the server computer . It should be appreciated that the UI diagram illustrated in is illustrative of one contemplated embodiment and therefore should not be construed as being limited in any way.

Although not shown in the screen display A can include various menus and or menu options such as options for returning to a previous screen exiting the current application or screen advancing to a next screen and or other options. It also should be understood that the screen display A and or other screen displays can be provided at almost any time during operation of the user device . In the user device is illustrated as displaying a user interface for setting and or modifying one or more data access options. The screen display A can include a data access options screen for presenting and or allowing modification of one or more data access options.

In the embodiment shown in the data access options screen includes a subscription plan field . The subscription plan field can present data for informing a user or other entity of a credit subscription plan. In the illustrated embodiment the subscription plan field presents data indicating a subscription plan of one thousand five hundred credits per month. It can be appreciated from the description of above that one thousand five hundred credits per month can correspond to an allocation rate rof credits to an account though this is not necessarily the case. The screen display A also can include a current balance field for displaying a current balance of credits associated with the user device . Thus the current balance field can be used to display a balance of the account . Thus a user or other entity can view the data access options screen to determine a subscription plan and credit balance associated with the user the user device and or another entity.

The data access options screen also can include a UI control for changing a subscription plan associated with the user device . Selection of the UI control and or other types of input such as voice commands touch commands keystrokes or the like can cause the user device to change a credit subscription plan. In some embodiments selection of the UI control can cause the user device to exchange traffic management data with the charging and billing systems and or other devices or systems to modify the credit subscription plan. Similarly the data access options screen can include a UI control for purchasing credits . Selection of the UI control can cause the user device to begin a credit purchase process. In some embodiments selection of the UI control can cause the user device to exchange the traffic management data with the charging and billing systems and or other devices or systems to purchase credits .

Thus a user or other entity can by way of interacting with the data access options screen view a credit subscription plan modify a credit subscription plan view a credit balance and or purchase credits . The data access options screen also can include a UI control for exiting the data access options screen and or a UI control for accessing an account associated with the user device and or a user or other entity associated with the user device . Because additional or alternative fields and or UI controls can be included in the screen display A and or because additional or alternative actions can be taken in response to selection of the UI controls included in the screen display A it should be understood that these embodiments are illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

Referring now to a UI diagram showing additional aspects of the concepts and technologies disclosed herein for controlling data access and rate in a network are described in detail. In particular shows a screen display B generated by a device such as the user device . In some embodiments the screen display B can be generated by the user device in response to receiving options data from the billing and charging systems . According to some other embodiments the screen display B can be generated by the user device in response to detecting a tap touch gesture keystroke voice command or other input for accessing data access settings or options purchasing credits changing a credit subscription plan or the like.

In yet other embodiments the screen display B can be presented by the user device in response to detecting a data access request such as the request . Thus it should be understood that presentation of the screen display B and or other screen displays can correspond to prompting for a traffic control decision as illustrated and described above with reference to operation of the method . Because the screen display B can be presented at additional and or alternative times it should be understood that these embodiments are illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

The screen display B can include a data access option display for displaying a credit balance presenting one or more data access options and or credit usage rates for selection by a user viewing account information and or application settings combinations thereof or the like. In particular data access options display can include a credit balance field . The credit balance field can display a balance of credits associated with the user and or the user device . Although not shown in it should be understood that the data access option display also can include a UI control for purchasing credits and or changing a credit subscription plan. Because the data access option display can include additional and or alternative controls fields and or information it should be understood that the illustrated embodiment is illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

The data access option display can display information for informing a user or other entity that a data session has been requested. The data access option display also can include a UI control . The UI control can present a first data access option for use during the requested data session. In the illustrated embodiment the UI control displays an option for conducting the requested data session at a bandwidth of up to seven hundred fifty megabits per second Mbps though other quality of service levels and or grades can be displayed in addition to or instead of seven hundred fifty Mbps. The UI control also displays a cost of this option in terms of credits and or a credit usage rate r. In the illustrated embodiment the credit usage rate rassociated with the UI control corresponds to fifteen credits per minute. Thus selection of this option based upon a current credit balance is illustrated as corresponding to about forty six minutes of data communications before the credits are exhausted. It should be understood that this embodiment is illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

According to various embodiments selection of the UI control can cause the user device to generate the traffic management data and to transmit the traffic management data to the charging and billing systems indicating the data access option. The charging and billing systems can also be configured to communicate this choice to the enforcement application as or with subscriber data for controlling the requested data session. Thus as explained above with reference to the enforcement application can begin applying the credit usage rate rassociated with the first data access option.

The data access option display also includes a UI control . The UI control presents a second data access option for use during the requested data session. In the illustrated embodiment the UI control displays an option for conducting the requested data session at a bandwidth of up to three hundred fifty Mbps though other QoS levels and or grades can be displayed in addition to or instead of three hundred fifty Mbps. The UI control also displays a cost of this option in terms of credits and or a credit usage rate r. In the illustrated embodiment the credit usage rate rassociated with the UI control can correspond to three credits per minute. As such selection of the second option based upon a current credit balance of six hundred ninety two credits can correspond to about two hundred thirty minutes of data communications before the credits are exhausted. It should be understood that this embodiment is illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

According to various embodiments selection of the UI control can cause the user device to generate the traffic management data and to transmit the traffic management data to the charging and billing systems and or other network nodes devices or the like. The traffic management data can indicate that the user or other entity has selected the second data access option. The charging and billing systems can also be configured to communicate the choice of the second data access option as or within the subscriber data to the enforcement application to control the requested data session. Thus as explained above with reference to the enforcement application can begin applying the credit usage rate rassociated with the second data access option.

The screen display B also can include a UI control for exiting the data access options and or the data access option display . The screen display B also can include a UI control for accessing one or more settings associated with the data access control functionality disclosed herein. Thus selection of the UI control can cause the user device to stop displaying the data access option display and selection of the UI control can cause the user device to begin displaying options or settings associated with the data access control functionality described herein. It should be understood that these embodiments are illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

While the screen display B is illustrated as displaying two data access options corresponding to the fields it should be understood that less than two data access options two data access options and or more than two data access options can be displayed on the screen display B in accordance with the concepts and technologies disclosed herein. Thus the illustrated embodiment is illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

In the above description of the enforcement application and the traffic control application have been described as executing various functions to provide the functionality described herein for controlling data access in the network . It should be understood that the traffic control application and the enforcement application as well as other entities and or application illustrated and described herein can communicate with one another and or work together in a synchronized manner to provide the functionality described herein. For example the traffic control application and the enforcement application can communicate with each other to ensure that credits are issued and or deducted in a timely manner. Because other communications between the various entities illustrated in and or described herein are contemplated and are possible it should be understood that this example of communications between these is illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

Turning now to additional details of the network are illustrated according to an illustrative embodiment. The network includes a cellular network a packet data network for example the Internet and a circuit switched network for example a publicly switched telephone network PSTN . The cellular network includes various components such as but not limited to base transceiver stations BTSs Node B s or e Node B s base station controllers BSCs radio network controllers RNCs mobile switching centers MSCs mobile management entities MMEs short message service centers SMSCs multimedia messaging service centers MMSCs home location registers HLRs home subscriber servers HSSs visitor location registers VLRs charging platforms billing platforms voicemail platforms GPRS core network components location service nodes an IP Multimedia Subsystem IMS and the like. The cellular network also includes radios and nodes for receiving and transmitting voice data and combinations thereof to and from radio transceivers networks the packet data network and the circuit switched network .

A mobile communications device such as for example a cellular telephone a user equipment a mobile terminal a PDA a laptop computer a handheld computer and combinations thereof can be operatively connected to the cellular network . The cellular network can be configured as a 2G GSM network and can provide data communications via GPRS and or EDGE. Additionally or alternatively the cellular network can be configured as a 3G UMTS network and can provide data communications via the HSPA protocol family for example HSDPA EUL also referred to as HSUPA and HSPA . The cellular network also is compatible with 4G mobile communications standards as well as evolved and future mobile standards.

The packet data network includes various devices for example servers computers databases and other devices in communication with one another as is generally known. The packet data network devices are accessible via one or more network links. The servers often store various files that are provided to a requesting device such as for example a computer a terminal a smartphone or the like. Typically the requesting device includes software a browser for executing a web page in a format readable by the browser or other software. Other files and or data may be accessible via links in the retrieved files as is generally known. In some embodiments the packet data network includes or is in communication with the Internet. The circuit switched network includes various hardware and software for providing circuit switched communications. The circuit switched network may include or may be what is often referred to as a plain old telephone system POTS . The functionality of a circuit switched network or other circuit switched network are generally known and will not be described herein in detail.

The illustrated cellular network is shown in communication with the packet data network and a circuit switched network though it should be appreciated that this is not necessarily the case. One or more Internet capable devices for example a PC a laptop a portable device or another suitable device can communicate with one or more cellular networks and devices connected thereto through the packet data network . It also should be appreciated that the Internet capable device can communicate with the packet data network through the circuit switched network the cellular network and or via other networks not illustrated .

As illustrated a communications device for example a telephone facsimile machine modem computer or the like can be in communication with the circuit switched network and therethrough to the packet data network and or the cellular network . It should be appreciated that the communications device can be an Internet capable device and can be substantially similar to the Internet capable device . In the specification the network is used to refer broadly to any combination of the networks . It should be appreciated that substantially all of the functionality described with reference to the network can be performed by the cellular network the packet data network and or the circuit switched network alone or in combination with other networks network elements and the like.

The processing unit may be a standard central processor that performs arithmetic and logical operations a more specific purpose programmable logic controller PLC a programmable gate array or other type of processor known to those skilled in the art and suitable for controlling the operation of the server computer. Processing units are generally know and therefore are not described in further detail herein.

The memory communicates with the processing unit via the system bus . In some embodiments the memory is operatively connected to a memory controller not shown that enables communication with the processing unit via the system bus . The memory includes an operating system and one or more program modules . The operating system can include but is not limited to members of the WINDOWS WINDOWS CE and or WINDOWS MOBILE families of operating systems from MICROSOFT CORPORATION the LINUX family of operating systems the SYMBIAN family of operating systems from SYMBIAN LIMITED the BREW family of operating systems from QUALCOMM CORPORATION the MAC OS iOS and or LEOPARD families of operating systems from APPLE CORPORATION the FREEBSD family of operating systems the SOLARIS family of operating systems from ORACLE CORPORATION other operating systems and the like.

The program modules may include various software and or program modules described herein. In some embodiments for example the program modules include the enforcement application . Additionally some embodiments of the computer system can include in the program modules applications programs or modules for providing the functionality described herein with respect to the charging and billing systems and the network reporting devices . These and or other programs can be embodied in computer readable media containing instructions that when executed by the processing unit perform one or more of the methods described in detail above with respect to . According to embodiments the program modules may be embodied in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. Although not shown in it should be understood that the memory also can be configured to store the subscriber data the subscriber information the network data and or other data if desired.

By way of example and not limitation computer readable media may include any available computer storage media or communication media that can be accessed by the computer system . Communication media includes computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics changed or set in a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media includes wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media. Combinations of the any of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

Computer storage media includes volatile and non volatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM Erasable Programmable ROM EPROM Electrically Erasable Programmable ROM EEPROM flash memory or other solid state memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the computer system . In the claims the phrase computer storage medium and variations thereof does not include waves or signals per se and or communication media.

The user interface devices may include one or more devices with which a user accesses the computer system . The user interface devices may include but are not limited to computers servers personal digital assistants cellular phones or any suitable computing devices. The I O devices enable a user to interface with the program modules . In one embodiment the I O devices are operatively connected to an I O controller not shown that enables communication with the processing unit via the system bus . The I O devices may include one or more input devices such as but not limited to a keyboard a mouse or an electronic stylus. Further the I O devices may include one or more output devices such as but not limited to a display screen or a printer.

The network devices enable the computer system to communicate with other networks or remote systems via a network such as the network . Examples of the network devices include but are not limited to a modem a radio frequency RF or infrared IR transceiver a telephonic interface a bridge a router or a network card. The network may include a wireless network such as but not limited to a Wireless Local Area Network WLAN such as a WI FI network a Wireless Wide Area Network WWAN a Wireless Personal Area Network WPAN such as BLUETOOTH a Wireless Metropolitan Area Network WMAN such a WiMAX network or a cellular network. Alternatively the network may be a wired network such as but not limited to a Wide Area Network WAN such as the Internet a Local Area Network LAN such as the Ethernet a wired Personal Area Network PAN or a wired Metropolitan Area Network MAN .

Turning now to an illustrative mobile device and components thereof will be described. In some embodiments the user device described above with reference to can be configured as and or can have an architecture similar or identical to the mobile device described herein in . It should be understood however that the user device may or may not include the functionality described herein with reference to . While connections are not shown between the various components illustrated in it should be understood that some none or all of the components illustrated in can be configured to interact with one other to carry out various device functions. In some embodiments the components are arranged so as to communicate via one or more busses not shown . Thus it should be understood that and the following description are intended to provide a general understanding of a suitable environment in which various aspects of embodiments can be implemented and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

As illustrated in the mobile device can include a display for displaying data. According to various embodiments the display can be configured to display asset information asset tag or asset ID information asset management account information various graphical user interface GUI elements text images video virtual keypads and or keyboards messaging data notification messages metadata internet content device status time date calendar data device preferences map and location data combinations thereof and or the like. The mobile device also can include a processor and a memory or other data storage device memory . The processor can be configured to process data and or can execute computer executable instructions stored in the memory . The computer executable instructions executed by the processor can include for example an operating system one or more applications such as the traffic control application other computer executable instructions stored in a memory or the like. In some embodiments the applications also can include a UI application not illustrated in .

The UI application can interface with the operating system such as the operating system shown in to facilitate user interaction with functionality and or data stored at the mobile device and or stored elsewhere. In some embodiments the operating system can include a member of the SYMBIAN OS family of operating systems from SYMBIAN LIMITED a member of the WINDOWS MOBILE OS and or WINDOWS PHONE OS families of operating systems from MICROSOFT CORPORATION a member of the PALM WEBOS family of operating systems from HEWLETT PACKARD CORPORATION a member of the BLACKBERRY OS family of operating systems from RESEARCH IN MOTION LIMITED a member of the MS family of operating systems from APPLE INC. a member of the ANDROID OS family of operating systems from GOOGLE INC. and or other operating systems. These operating systems are merely illustrative of some contemplated operating systems that may be used in accordance with various embodiments of the concepts and technologies described herein and therefore should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

The UI application can be executed by the processor to aid a user in entering content scanning or capturing asset ID or asset tag information creating new asset tags or asset ID numbers viewing asset information and or account information answering initiating calls entering deleting data entering and setting user IDs and passwords for device access configuring settings manipulating address book content and or settings multimode interaction interacting with other applications and otherwise facilitating user interaction with the operating system the applications and or other types or instances of data that can be stored at the mobile device . The data can include for example subscriber information subscription plans credit balances usage rates r flow rates r allocation rates r and or other applications or program modules.

According to various embodiments the data can include for example presence applications visual voice mail applications messaging applications text to speech and speech to text applications add ons plug ins email applications music applications video applications camera applications location based service applications power conservation applications game applications productivity applications entertainment applications enterprise applications combinations thereof and the like. The applications the data and or portions thereof can be stored in the memory and or in a firmware and can be executed by the processor . The firmware also can store code for execution during device power up and power down operations. It can be appreciated that the firmware can be stored in a volatile or non volatile data storage device including but not limited to the memory and or a portion thereof.

The mobile device also can include an input output I O interface . The I O interface can be configured to support the input output of data such as location information asset information user information organization information presence status information user IDs passwords and application initiation start up requests. In some embodiments the I O interface can include a hardwire connection such as a universal serial bus USB port a mini USB port a micro USB port an audio jack a PS2 port an IEEE 1394 FIREWIRE port a serial port a parallel port an Ethernet RJ45 port an RJ11 port a proprietary port combinations thereof or the like. In some embodiments the mobile device can be configured to synchronize with another device to transfer content to and or from the mobile device . In some embodiments the mobile device can be configured to receive updates to one or more of the applications via the I O interface though this is not necessarily the case. In some embodiments the I O interface accepts I O devices such as keyboards keypads mice interface tethers printers plotters external storage touch multi touch screens touch pads trackballs joysticks microphones remote control devices displays projectors medical equipment e.g. stethoscopes heart monitors and other health metric monitors modems routers external power sources docking stations combinations thereof and the like. It should be appreciated that the I O interface may be used for communications between the mobile device and a network device or local device.

The mobile device also can include a communications component . The communications component can be configured to interface with the processor to facilitate wired and or wireless communications with one or more networks such as the network described herein. In some embodiments other networks include networks that utilize non cellular wireless technologies such as WI FI or WIMAX. In some embodiments the communications component includes a multimode communications subsystem for facilitating communications via the cellular network and one or more other networks.

The communications component in some embodiments includes one or more transceivers. The one or more transceivers if included can be configured to communicate over the same and or different wireless technology standards with respect to one another. For example in some embodiments one or more of the transceivers of the communications component may be configured to communicate using GSM CDMAONE CDMA2000 LTE and various other 2G 2.5G 3G 4G and greater generation technology standards. Moreover the communications component may facilitate communications over various channel access methods which may or may not be used by the aforementioned standards including but not limited to TDMA FDMA W CDMA OFDM SDMA and the like.

In addition the communications component may facilitate data communications using GPRS EDGE the HSPA protocol family including HSDPA EUL or otherwise termed HSUPA HSPA and various other current and future wireless data access standards. In the illustrated embodiment the communications component can include a first transceiver TxRx A that can operate in a first communications mode e.g. GSM . The communications component also can include an Ntransceiver TxRx N that can operate in a second communications mode relative to the first transceiver A e.g. UMTS . While two transceivers A N hereinafter collectively and or generically referred to as transceivers are shown in it should be appreciated that less than two two and or more than two transceivers can be included in the communications component .

The communications component also can include an alternative transceiver Alt TxRx for supporting other types and or standards of communications. According to various contemplated embodiments the alternative transceiver can communicate using various communications technologies such as for example WI FI WIMAX BLUETOOTH infrared infrared data association IRDA near field communications NFC other RF technologies combinations thereof and the like. In some embodiments the communications component also can facilitate reception from terrestrial radio networks digital satellite radio networks internet based radio service networks combinations thereof and the like. The communications component can process data from a network such as the Internet an intranet a broadband network a WI FI hotspot an Internet service provider ISP a digital subscriber line DSL provider a broadband provider combinations thereof or the like.

The mobile device also can include one or more sensors . The sensors can include temperature sensors light sensors air quality sensors movement sensors orientation sensors noise sensors proximity sensors or the like. As such it should be understood that the sensors can include but are not limited to accelerometers magnetometers gyroscopes infrared sensors noise sensors microphones combinations thereof or the like. Additionally audio capabilities for the mobile device may be provided by an audio I O component . The audio I O component of the mobile device can include one or more speakers for the output of audio signals one or more microphones for the collection and or input of audio signals and or other audio input and or output devices.

The illustrated mobile device also can include a subscriber identity module SIM system . The SIM system can include a universal SIM USIM a universal integrated circuit card UICC and or other identity devices. The SIM system can include and or can be connected to or inserted into an interface such as a slot interface . In some embodiments the slot interface can be configured to accept insertion of other identity cards or modules for accessing various types of networks. Additionally or alternatively the slot interface can be configured to accept multiple subscriber identity cards. Because other devices and or modules for identifying users and or the mobile device are contemplated it should be understood that these embodiments are illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

The mobile device also can include an image capture and processing system image system . The image system can be configured to capture or otherwise obtain photos videos and or other visual information. As such the image system can include cameras lenses charge coupled devices CCDs combinations thereof or the like. The mobile device may also include a video system . The video system can be configured to capture process record modify and or store video content. Photos and videos obtained using the image system and the video system respectively may be added as message content to an MMS message email message and sent to another mobile device. The video and or photo content also can be shared with other devices via various types of data transfers via wired and or wireless communication devices as described herein.

The mobile device also can include one or more location components . The location components can be configured to send and or receive signals to determine a geographic location of the mobile device . According to various embodiments the location components can send and or receive signals from global positioning system GPS devices assisted GPS A GPS devices WI FI WIMAX and or cellular network triangulation data combinations thereof and the like. The location component also can be configured to communicate with the communications component to retrieve triangulation data for determining a location of the mobile device . In some embodiments the location component can interface with cellular network nodes telephone lines satellites location transmitters and or beacons wireless network transmitters and receivers combinations thereof and the like. In some embodiments the location component can include and or can communicate with one or more of the sensors such as a compass an accelerometer and or a gyroscope to determine the orientation of the mobile device . Using the location component the mobile device can generate and or receive data to identify its geographic location or to transmit data used by other devices to determine the location of the mobile device . The location component may include multiple components for determining the location and or orientation of the mobile device .

The illustrated mobile device also can include a power source . The power source can include one or more batteries power supplies power cells and or other power subsystems including alternating current AC and or direct current DC power devices. The power source also can interface with an external power system or charging equipment via a power I O component . Because the mobile device can include additional and or alternative components the above embodiment should be understood as being illustrative of one possible operating environment for various embodiments of the concepts and technologies described herein. The described embodiment of the mobile device is illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

Based on the foregoing it should be appreciated that systems and methods for controlling data access and rate in a network have been disclosed herein. Although the subject matter presented herein has been described in language specific to computer structural features methodological and transformative acts specific computing machinery and computer readable media it is to be understood that the concepts and technologies disclosed herein are not necessarily limited to the specific features acts or media described herein. Rather the specific features acts and mediums are disclosed as example forms of implementing the concepts and technologies disclosed herein.

The subject matter described above is provided by way of illustration only and should not be construed as limiting. Various modifications and changes may be made to the subject matter described herein without following the example embodiments and applications illustrated and described and without departing from the true spirit and scope of the embodiments of the concepts and technologies disclosed herein.

