---

title: Method for acquiring or providing update information for route to third party and apparatus for same
abstract: Provided is a method for providing update information for a route from a terminal to a destination to the terminal, wherein the destination is designated as location of the third party being moving, which is performed by a server and comprising: receiving location information of the terminal from the terminal; determining whether the location of the third party has been changed; generating update information for the route based on the received location information and the changed location of the third party upon determining that the location of the third party has been changed; and notifying the terminal of the update information according to types of the update information, wherein the location information of the terminal is received when the terminal deviates from or detours around the route, when the terminal enters a specific segment on the route set by the server, or when the terminal moves by a predetermined distance.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09494431&OS=09494431&RS=09494431
owner: LG Electronics Inc.
number: 09494431
owner_city: Seoul
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20121218
---
This application claims priority to and is a National Stage of International Application No. PCT KR2012 011066 filed on Dec. 18 2012 which claims priority to Provisional Application Nos. 61 577 080 filed on Dec. 18 2011 61 665 880 filed on Jun. 28 2012 61 668 412 filed on Jul. 5 2012 and 61 723 795 filed on Nov. 8 2012 which are incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein.

One embodiment of the present invention relates to a method of providing or acquiring a route or update information for the route in a case in which a destination of a trip is location of a third party and the location of the third party is changed.

Conventionally there was used a method of a navigation terminal detecting a current location i.e. an origin through connection with a Global Positioning System GPS and computing a route based on a destination of a trip input by a user. In recent years however there has been utilized a service method of providing route information real time traffic information related to the route and various other kinds of information from a server that provides traffic information and route information using Personal Navigation Devices PNDs in a mobile communication network according to population and improvement in performance of smart phones.

In particular various kinds of navigation services are being now provided and Open Mobile Alliance OMA is standardizing a Dynamic Navigation Enabler DynNav that transmits real time traffic information in a Peer to Peer P2P mode through an Internet Protocol IP based network of a mobile communication network or a wireless network instead of a method of transmitting Traffic Protocol Expert Group TPEG information in a Digital Multimedia Broadcasting DMB network that provides information in a conventional broadcast form. In this standard a navigation terminal and service of a smart phone is mainly classified into two forms.

In the first form complex route computation is not performed by a navigation application equipped in a smart phone but is performed by a server that provides traffic information and route information and a corresponding route is transmitted to the smart phone. The second form is applied to a case in which route computation is performed by an application equipped in a smart phone according to the improvement in performance of the smart phone or a case in which a navigation terminal having a mobile communication modem mounted thereto perform route computation. In the second form route information is not transmitted by a server that provides traffic information and when a route computed by the terminal is registered with the server only real time traffic information related to the registered route is received from the server in a customized fashion in an IP based P2P mode instead of a conventional broadcast form.

In addition the DynNav which is being standardized by an open mobile alliance location working group OMA LOC WG belongs to the form that transmits IP based traffic information. More specifically the DynNav belongs to a form that transmits traffic information in a P2P mode. In the DynNav the navigation device is classified into the following two devices.

1. Smart ND A device that can perform route computation and therefore requests only real time traffic information without receiving route information through a DynNav server

2. Lightweight ND A device that cannot perform route computation and therefore requests all kinds of real time traffic information including route information through a DynNav server

In a conventional DynNav system a procedure of requesting and transmitting corresponding traffic information is performed in a RESTful mode. As a result the following route information types may be used. Each information type may be defined through XML Schema Definition XSD .

1 Trip Structure Information that a terminal initially receives from a user to set a route. Information basically having the same origin and destination is acquired and then transmitted to a server. The trip structure includes a subset corresponding to a plurality of route structures.

2 Route Structure A mode to express all routes computed through the trip structure. The route structure is expressed as several segments.

3 Segment Structure A structure expressing each segment. Length of each segment and a real time traffic situation corresponding to a corresponding segment may be defined in a TPEG format.

In such an IP based route provision method it is necessary to perform a procedure of providing or acquiring the route in a case in which in a case in which a destination of a trip is location of a third party. In particular it is necessary to provide a method of providing route information to the terminal since the location of the third party is changed.

The present invention proposes a method of providing or acquiring update information for a route of a trip in a case in which a destination of the trip is location of a third party and the location of the third party is changed with the result that destination information is changed.

One embodiment of the present invention provides a method of providing update information for a route including at least one segment from a terminal to a destination to the terminal wherein as the destination is defined as an identifier ID of a third party update information for a route in which the destination is designated as location of the third party is provided the method being performed by a server the method including receiving location information of the terminal from the terminal determining whether the location of the third party has been changed upon receiving the location information of the terminal generating update information for the route based on the received location information of the terminal and the changed location of the third party upon determining that the location of the third party has been changed and notifying the terminal of the update information according to types of the update information wherein the location information of the terminal is received when the terminal deviates from or detours around the route when the terminal enters a specific segment on the route set by the server or when the terminal moves by a predetermined distance.

Preferably a notification policy of the update information may be applied according to the types of the update information.

Preferably the update information may include a first type indicating a case in which the changed location of the third party is in a last segment of the route a second type indicating a case in which at least one segment is additionally needed to the route to reach the changed location of the third party and a third type indicating a case in which at least one segment is additionally needed to the route to reach the changed location of the third party and an alternative route exists in addition to the route.

Preferably if the update information is the first type or the second type the method may further include notifying the terminal of the update information when the terminal enters a specific segment on the route around the destination.

Preferably if the update information is the third type the method may further include notifying the terminal of the update information immediately when the update information is generated.

Preferably the specific segment on the route may be indicated by a positionUpdate element contained in information for each of segments of the route.

Preferably if the positionUpdate element is set to true the location information of the terminal may be received from the terminal when the terminal enters a segment containing the positionUpdate element set to true.

Preferably the method may include receiving a request for notifying of the update information from the terminal wherein the request for notifying of the update information contains a tracking3rdParty element wherein if the tracking3rdParty element is set to true the server may be configured to track the location of the third party and to notify of availability of the update information.

Another embodiment of the present invention provides a method of acquiring update information for a route including at least one segment from a terminal to a destination from a server wherein as the destination is defined as an identifier ID of a third party update information for a route in which the destination is designated as location of the third party is provided the method being performed by the terminal the method including transmitting location information of the terminal to the server receiving a notification of update information on the route based on the location information of the terminal and changed location of the third party from the server the update information being generated by the server and the notification being transmitted by the server according to types of the update information and accessing the update information wherein it is determined whether the location of the third party has been changed if the location information of the terminal is received by the server the update information is generated based on the location information of the terminal received by the server and the changed location of the third party when it is determined that the location of the third party has been changed and the location information of the terminal is transmitted when the terminal deviates from or detours around the route when the terminal enters a specific segment on the route set by the server or when the terminal moves by a predetermined distance.

Preferably a notification policy of the update information may be applied according to the types of the update information.

Preferably the update information may include a first type indicating a case in which the changed location of the third party is in a last segment of the route a second type indicating a case in which at least one segment is additionally needed to the route to reach the changed location of the third party and a third type indicating a case in which at least one segment is additionally needed to the route to reach the changed location of the third party and an alternative route exists in addition to the route.

Preferably if the update information is the first type or the second type the server may notify the terminal of the update information when the terminal enters a specific segment on the route around the destination.

Preferably if the update information is the third type the server may notify the terminal of the update information immediately when the update information is generated.

Preferably the specific segment on the route may be indicated by a positionUpdate element contained in information for each segment of the route.

Preferably if the positionUpdate element is set to true the location information of the terminal may be received from the terminal when the terminal enters a segment containing the positionUpdate element set to true.

Preferably the method may include transmitting a request for notifying of the update information to the server wherein the request for notifying of the update information contains a tracking3rdParty element wherein the tracking3rdParty element is set to true the server may be configured to track the location of the third party and to notify of availability of the update information.

Another embodiment of the present invention provides a server configured to provide update information for a route including at least one segment from a terminal to a destination to the terminal wherein as the destination is defined as an identifier ID of a third party update information for a route in which the destination is designated as location of the third party is provided the server including a transceiver configured to communicate with the terminal and a processor configured to generate update information for the route based on information received from the terminal wherein the processor is configured to receive location information of the terminal from the terminal through the transceiver to determine whether the location of the third party has been changed upon receiving the location information of the terminal to generate update information based on the received location information of the terminal and the changed location of the third party upon determining that the location of the third party has been changed and to notify the terminal of the update information through the transceiver according to types of the update information and wherein the location information of the terminal is received when the terminal deviates from or detours around the route when the terminal enters a specific segment on the route set by the server or when the terminal moves by a predetermined distance.

Preferably a notification policy of the update information may be applied according to the types of the update information.

A further embodiment of the present invention provides a terminal configured to acquire update information for a route including at least one segment from a terminal to a destination from a server wherein as the destination is defined as an identifier ID of a third party update information for a route in which the destination is designated as location of the third party is provided the terminal including a transceiver configured to communicate with the server and a processor configured to acquire update information for the route based on information received from the server wherein the processor is configured to transmit location information of the terminal to the server through the transceiver to receive a notification of update information based on the location information of the terminal and changed location of the third party from the server wherein the update information is generated by the server and the notification is transmitted by the server according to types of the update information and to access the update information wherein it is determined whether the location of the third party has been changed when the location information of the terminal is received by the server the update information is generated based on the location information of the terminal received by the server and the changed location of the third party when it is determined that the location of the third party has been changed and the location information of the terminal is transmitted when the terminal deviates from or detours around the route when the terminal enters a specific segment on the route set by the server or when the terminal moves by a predetermined distance.

Preferably a notification policy of the update information may be applied according to the types of the update information.

The above technical solutions are merely some embodiments of the present invention and various embodiments into which the technical features of the present invention are incorporated may be derived and understood by those skilled in the art from the detailed description of the present invention which follows.

In accordance with embodiments of the present invention it is possible to provide or acquire a route in which a destination is location of a third party. In addition it is possible to efficiently notify of and access update information for the route in a case in which the location of the third party is changed.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the present invention. Unless otherwise defined all technical terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this present invention belongs and will not be interpreted in overly wide or narrow sense unless expressly so defined herein. If a term used herein is a wrong term by which one of ordinary skill in the art cannot correctly understand the present invention the wrong term should be replaced by a technical term by which one of ordinary skill in the art can correctly understand the present invention. It will be further understood that terms such as those defined in commonly used dictionaries should be interpreted as having a meaning that is consistent with their meaning in the context of the relevant art and will not be interpreted in an overly narrow sense.

As used herein the singular forms are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises or includes are not intended to include all elements or all steps described herein but do not preclude exclusion of some elements or steps described herein or addition of one or more other elements or steps.

It will be understood that although the terms first second etc. may be used herein to describe various elements these elements should not be limited by these terms. These terms are only used to distinguish one element from another element. For example a first element may be termed a second element and a second element may be termed a first element without departing from the teachings of the present invention.

It will be understood that when an element is referred to as being on connected to or coupled to another element it may be connected or coupled to the other element or intervening elements may be present. In contrast when an element is referred to as being directly connected to or directly coupled to another element there are no intervening elements present.

Hereinafter the present invention will be described in detail by explaining exemplary embodiments of the invention with reference to the attached drawings. The same reference numerals in the drawings denote like elements and a repeated explanation thereof will not be given. In the description of the present invention certain detailed explanations of related art are omitted when it is deemed that they may unnecessarily obscure the essence of the invention. The features of the present invention will be more clearly understood from the accompanying drawings and should not be limited by the accompanying drawings. It is to be appreciated that all changes equivalents and substitutes that do not depart from the spirit and technical scope of the present invention are encompassed in the present invention.

Although various kinds of terminals or devices are shown in the drawings each of the terminals or devices may be referred to as a user equipment UE a mobile equipment ME a mobile station MS a user terminal UT a subscriber station SS a wireless device a handheld device or an access terminal AT . In addition each of the terminals or devices may be a portable instrument such as a mobile phone a personal digital assistant PDA a smart phone a wireless modem or a laptop computer having a communication function. Alternatively each of the terminals or devices may be a non portable instrument such as a personal computer PC or a vehicle equipped device.

In this specification the application means an implementation of a well defined but not standardized set of functions that performs work on behalf of the user. The application may consist of software and or hardware elements and associated user interfaces An implementation of a well defined but not standardized set of functions that performs work on behalf of the user. It may consist of software and or hardware elements and associated user interfaces .

Generally in a technical art to which the present invention pertains the server corresponds to an entity that provides resources to clients in response to requests An entity that provides resources to Clients in response to requests .

Generally in a technical art to which the present invention pertains the client corresponds to a device a user agent or another entity that acts as the receiver of a service A device user agent or other entity that acts as the receiver of a service .

In this specification DynNav corresponds to an entity that is in charge of interacting with a DynNav server to get an optimal route s real time and forecasted traffic information and complimentary data An entity that is in charge of interacting with a DynNav Server to get optimal route s real time and forecasted traffic information and complimentary data . Consequently the DynNav application is equipped in a terminal including a smart phone a mobile phone and a navigation device. In this specification therefore the DynNav application may be mutually referred to as a terminal. In this aspect the DynNav application corresponds to a kind of client.

In this specification the DynNav server corresponds to an entity that is in charge of providing an optimal route s real time and forecasted traffic information and complimentary data to the application An entity that is in charge of providing to the application optimal route s real time and forecasted traffic information and complimentary data . In this aspect the DynNav server corresponds to a kind of the server.

In this specification the lightweight LD means a navigation device that does not have a route computation function and requests and receives a computed route from the server. The lightweight LD corresponds to a navigation device that accesses a server for route estimation functions and for retrieving roads shape representation if not available in a local map database A navigation device that accesses to a server for route estimation functionalities and for retrieving roads shape representation if not available in a local map database .

In this specification the location URI corresponds to a URI that enables the current location of a device to be obtained from a particular location server using a protocol for obtaining location A URI that enables the current location of a device to be obtained from a particular location server using a particular dereferencing protocol .

In this specification the navigation device corresponds to an entity that using a Global Navigation Satellite System GNSS service assists the driver showing a correct route to arrive at the final destination. This entity may process real time and predicted traffic information and dynamically estimate the optimal route according to user preferences An entity that using GNSS Global Navigation Satellite System service assists the driver showing correct route to arrive at the final destination. This entity may process real time and predicted traffic information and dynamically estimates the optimal route according to user preferences .

In this specification the point of interest describes information about locations such as name category unique identifier or civic address POI describes information about locations such as name category unique identifier or civic address .

The segment is a unit for classifying roads. In a general road a road connected between an intersection and another intersection is defined as a segment. In an expressway a road classified according to policy of each expressway is defined as a segment. A traffic jam or transit time may be decided based on such a segment. In this specification the segment is mutually referred to as a road section.

In this specification the polyline corresponds to a continuous line used in graphic computing composed of one or more line segments defined by specifying the endpoints of each segment A continuous line used in graphic computing composed of one or more line segments defined by specifying the endpoints of each segment .

In this specification the route information corresponds to coordinates of segment sets and complimentary data from the defined origin and the destination Information which coordinates of segment end points and complimentary data from the defined origin and the destination .

In this specification the smart ND corresponds to a navigation device that is able to calculate a route s using a road network database available on the device itself A navigation device that is able to calculate the route s using a roads network database available on the device itself .

In this specification the traffic information corresponds to information which consists of traffic events and network performance parameters related to an area or a route Information which consists of traffic events and network performance parameters related to an area or a route . In addition the traffic information may include current or future traffic information.

In this specification the traffic event corresponds to information regarding events related to an area or a route that are either imposed or planned by the road network operator i.e. road works leading to lane closures or events that occur outside the control of the network operator i.e. accidents Information regarding events related to an area or a route that are either imposed or planned by the road network operator i.e. road works leading to lane closures or events that occur outside the control of the network operator i.e. accidents .

In this specification the network performance parameter corresponds to information regarding the performances or a traffic flow i.e. speed delay and travel time of segments related to an area or a route Information regarding the performances i.e. speed delay and travel time of road segments related to an area or a route .

The route information in full format means a kind of route information including all segments from the origin and the destination. Unless mentioned otherwise route information means all routes.

The route information in summarized format means a kind of route information including only a segment selected from among all segments from the origin and the destination for summarizing information a selection method is not described in the present invention .

The present invention relates to a navigation system method and device reflecting real time traffic information and more specifically to a navigation system method and device that transmit real time traffic information from a traffic information provision server to the navigation device using a minimum communication bandwidth in a case in which the navigation device can compute a route and has a communication modem that can be connected to a mobile communication network in a system that provides real time traffic information. In addition the present invention relates to a navigation system method and device that transmit an optimal route and real time traffic information from a traffic information provision server to the navigation device in a case in which the navigation device can be connected to a mobile communication network even in a case in which the navigation device cannot compute a route.

In recent years a navigation service for providing a movement route to a mobile communication terminal has been generalized instead of using the existing digital multimedia broadcasting DMB network with active popularization of smart phones. In an open mobile alliance location working group OMA LOC WG the above service is referred to as dynamic navigation DynNav .

In this specification the navigation device is referred to as a device that can perform a route guidance function. The navigation device includes all electronic devices such as a smart phone a mobile phone a mobile device a laptop computer a tablet PC and a smart pad which are portable or can be attached to portable objects.

For simplicity of expression in this specification the traffic information and route information provision server or the DynNav server is expressed as a server and the navigation device is expressed as a terminal or ND . The navigation device may be expressed as a smart ND or lightweight ND according to capability of the terminal.

In the present invention the terminal which may be divided into two terminal forms as mentioned above may be connected to an IP network such as a mobile communication network or Wi Fi as shown in the drawing. The terminal may have a navigation application for route guidance. The application may access the server to receive route guidance data and real time traffic information for route guidance. Although not shown on the other hand a terminal that can compute a route may selectively receive real time traffic information from the server without receiving route guidance data from the server.

The real time traffic information means optimal route information computed by the DynNav server and transmitted to the terminal real time and forecasted traffic information and additional information such as point of interest POI and weather related to traffic. In addition the navigation application or the terminal is genetically expressed as the terminal to avoid of duplication of expression. In this specification therefore the terminal ND smart ND lightweight ND and navigation application may be referred to as the terminal. 

The real time traffic information as mentioned above may be expressed through Transport Protocol Experts Group TPEG promoted by an ISO standardization organization. The TPEG means a standard protocol for transmitting traffic and trip information through a digital broadcasting network. As shown in a layer structure of TPEG corresponds to a network layer third layer to an application layer seventh layer of an ISO OSI layer model. The network layer defines TPEG frame synchronization and routing. Components of each application are combined into one stream in a packetization layer of fourth fifth and sixth layers. Each message standard corresponds to a seventh layer which is an application layer. The DynNav may provide real time traffic information to the terminal according to a real time traffic information expression mode of the TPEG. The DynNav may use additional expression mode.

As previously described an application corresponds to a DynNav application and may be referred to as a terminal. In the description related to therefore the application will be referred to as the terminal. In addition as previously described a server corresponds to a DynNav server. Furthermore in embodiments of the present invention the terminal corresponds to a lightweight ND as previously described.

In an embodiment of the present invention a trip destination is a location of a third party. An embodiment of the present invention proposes a method of providing acquiring a route or update information for the route in a case in which the location of the third party is changed. In this case the destination may be defined as an identifier ID of the third party. The server may acquire the location of the third party through an external location application or server.

In a case in which the destination is the location of the third party that can be changed i.e. in a case in which the ID of the third party is used as the destination the destination may be changed according to the movement of the third party. In this case it is necessary for the server to notify the terminal of the update information based on the change of the destination. Types of the update information are classified into 1 update of the destination or change of the destination 2 an additional segment or an additional route and 3 an alternative route which will hereinafter be described. Meanwhile the server may control a point of time when the update information is notified to reduce the number of times of interaction access or communication between the terminal and the server. For example only in a case in which the terminal approaches the trip destination i.e. the location of the third party within a predetermined range i.e. in a case in which the terminal enters a specific segment on the route the server may perform such a notification which will hereinafter be described.

The terminal sends a trip request to the server to request a route to the destination i.e. the third party step A . The trip request includes information regarding the origin and the destination. The terminal may provides location information or address information as the origin or the server may check location of the terminal to set the checked location of the terminal as the origin. In the present invention as previously described the destination is provided as the ID of the third party.

The server checks location of the third party based on the ID of the third party received at step A. The location of the third party may be checked using various methods for example SUPL which is not described in the present application. The server generates one or more route from the origin to the destination using the checked location of the third party as the destination. The server generates summarized routes of the routes based on the generated routes and transmits the summarized routes to the terminal step B . In addition the server provides information regarding the acquired location of the third party as destination information.

The terminal selects a route to be actually used from among the summarized routes received at step B and requests a full route for the selected summarized route step C . The server transmits the full route requested by the terminal to the terminal step D .

The terminal requests from the server traffic event information for the full route received from the server step E .

The server transmits the traffic event information requested from the terminal to the terminal step F .

The terminal subscribes a notification service to the server step G . The terminal may request a notification service to track the location of the third party and when update information based on the change in location of the third party is generated to transmit the same from the server . This may be performed using an external entity. To this end various methods may be used for example SULP SLP . When the following conditions occur the terminal receives a notification from the server .

a. A network performance parameter for a route is updated or new traffic event information is generated.

c. Update information is generated due to movement of the third party the destination is changed an additional route is generated and an alternative route is suggested .

At this time when the terminal subscribes a notification service the terminal requests the server to continuously track the location of the third party. If there is no request the above condition c does not occur. This will be described in detail with reference to and Table 6. The server notifies the terminal that the subscription of the notification service has been successfully achieved step H .

Conditions in which the terminal transmits the location of the terminal to the server are as follows.

a. In a case in which the terminal deviates from or detours around a received route the terminal transmits the location of the terminal to the server .

b. Whenever the terminal moves by a predetermined distance the terminal transmits the location of the terminal to the server .

c. When the server provides the full route to the terminal the server designates a segment at which the terminal will transmit the location of the terminal to the server . When the terminal enters a corresponding segment the terminal transmits the location of the terminal to the server .

The server transmits a notification for provision of update information to the terminal step J . This notification is performed only when the terminal makes a request from the server at step G.

a. A network performance parameter for a route is updated or new traffic event information is generated.

c. Update information is generated due to movement of the third party the destination is changed an additional route is generated and an alternative route is suggested .

Meanwhile in a case in which the above condition c is applied the server may conditionally transmit the notification. For example in a case in which a route to be newly generated from the most recently provided route due to movement of the third party such as change of the destination or generation of an additional route is relatively greatly different from the most recently provided route the notification may be delayed as long as possible to reduce the number of times of communication between the terminal and the server and the number of times of using a communication network in consideration of characteristics of the third party who can move. That is according to an embodiment of the present invention the notification by the server is conditionally performed to improve efficiency of the notification service. In addition it is possible to efficiently provide acquire a route or update information for the route in a case in which the destination is the third party. This will be described in detail with reference to .

The terminal requests update information from the server step K . The server provides the update information to the terminal step L .

After arrival at the destination the terminal requests session end from the server and ends the session step M . The server having received the request of the session end also ends the session.

Meanwhile in the embodiment related to all of step A to step M may be sequentially performed. Alternatively some of the steps may be separately performed. For example step A to step D may be performed as a separate procedure of requesting and receiving a route for one trip step E and step F may be performed as a separate procedure of requesting and receiving traffic event information step G and step H may be performed as a separate procedure of subscribing a notification service to the server step I and step J may be performed as a separate procedure of generating notifying update information according to the change in location of the terminal and the change in location of the third party as the destination and step K and step L may be performed as a separate procedure of acquiring providing the update information. In addition some of the above described groups of the steps may be combined and performed.

As previously described an application corresponds to a DynNav application and may be referred to as a terminal. In the description related to therefore the application will be referred to as the terminal. In addition as previously described a server corresponds to a DynNav server. In embodiments of the present invention the terminal corresponds to a lightweight ND as previously described.

In an embodiment of the present invention a trip destination is a location of a third party. An embodiment of the present invention proposes a method of providing acquiring a route or update information for the route in a case in which the location of the third party is changed. In this case the destination may be defined as an ID of the third party. The server may acquire the location of the third party through an external location application or server.

In a case in which the destination is the location of the third party that can be changed i.e. in a case in which the ID of the third party is used as the destination the destination may be changed according to the movement of the third party. In this case it is necessary for the server to notify the terminal of the update information based on the change of the destination. Types of the update information are classified into 1 update of the destination or change of the destination 2 an additional segment or an additional route and 3 an alternative route which will hereinafter be described. Meanwhile the server may control a point of time when the update information is notified to reduce the number of times of interaction access or communication between the terminal and the server. For example only in a case in which the terminal approaches the trip destination i.e. the location of the third party within a predetermined range i.e. in a case in which the terminal enters a specific segment on the route the server may perform such a notification which will hereinafter be described.

The terminal may create a trip description through trip parameters defined by a user of the terminal i.e. origin and destination information using a POST command. In a case in which the trip destination is the third party on the other hand the following elements may be added to Table 1 showing a trip structure for expressing the same.

Types such as logical name MISSDN email address SIP URI IMS Public Identity MIN MDN and URI may be used as the ID of the third party. In response thereto the server may compute a set of routes for the trip using related traffic information and make a response as expression of trip resources including route IDs of the computed routes.

The terminal may access a set of summarized routes using a GET command based on performance parameters for a main road section of the route. This step may be repeated for all of the routes computed by the server. In a case in which the length and complexity of the trip are limited and the network quality is proper however full route information may have already been requested at this step.

The terminal or the user of the terminal may select one from the computed set and access full route information for the route selected by the terminal or the user of the terminal using a GET command. In a case in which the full route has been used at step 2 this step is not requested.

A route structure for expressing the route may be based on Table 2 above and a segment structure of the route structure may be based on Table 3 above. In addition the following additional elements may be added to the segment structure to indicate a specific segment of the previously mentioned route.

The terminal may access traffic events for selected categories related to a route which is being used using a GET command based on links to traffic event resources provided in expressing the route. Access to the traffic events may be limited to categories selected by the user. For example the above mentioned categories mean distinction between a traffic accident and road repairing as kinds of the traffic events.

The terminal may remove unnecessary routes which have been previously computed by the server but not selected by the user using a DELETE command.

The terminal may subscribe to notification services for the trip using a POST command. The terminal may be notified of the following events by the server 

a. Performance parameter updates for all routes related to the trip and new traffic events limited to a selected category 

c. The destination and or route updated to the third party. In a case in which the trip destination is the location of the third party and the location of the third party is changed the terminal must request a procedure of the server tracking the location of the third party from the server during subscription to the notification services in order to enable the changed information to be notified.

In other words the terminal cannot receive any notification from the server except for the above conditions a to c. For example in a case in which the destination to which the condition c is applicable is the third party the above notification is not performed unless the location of the third party is changed.

That is the tracking3rdParty element may be set to true tracking of the location of the third party may be requested from the server and a notification of update information based on the change in location of the third party may be requested from the server.

In a case in which a vehicle having the terminal attached thereto deviates from or detours around a current route s the terminal may modify an origin parameter included in the trip resources using a PUT operation. In addition in some different cases the terminal may upload the location of the terminal to the server. The server may recognize that the current location of the terminal does not belong to the current route and may compute a new route using the new origin. The server may remove the existing route and may respond to the PUT operation using an identifier of the new route included in the expression of the trip. In a case in which the change origin parameter used for the PUT operation belongs to the above route s the server uses this information to remove segments which have already being travelled from the expression of the route s .

This step the PUT operation for the trip resources occurs in a case in which the vehicle having the terminal attached thereto deviates from or detours around the route in a case in which the vehicle has traveled a specific distance from the previously reported location and in a case in which the vehicle enters a segment at which uploading of the location has been requested from the server.

Since the terminal has subscribed to the notification service for the trip resources the subscription includes all routes related to the trip and the server will transmit a notification for new events affecting a new route the terminal may access the newly computed route together with performance parameters and traffic events using a GET operation.

In a case in which traffic events and or a serious traffic jam and or the change in location of the third party along the suggested routes is detected by the server the server may notify the terminal of availability of update information for a current route and an alternative route using a POST command.

That is in when the terminal uploads the location of the terminal to the server the server may check or detect whether the location of the third party has been changed. In addition when the change in location of the third party is checked or detected the server may create update information for the route based on the current location of the terminal and the current location of the third party. Creation of the update information may accompany re computation of the route based on the current location of the terminal and the current location of the third party.

Meanwhile as previously described such a notification may not be performed even in a case in which the change in location of the third party has been detected. In other words even in a case in which the change in location of the third party has been detected the server may control a notification for the update information according to type of the update information based on the change in location of the third party in order to reduce communication load between the server and the terminal.

For example when the update information corresponds to 1 update of the destination that is a case in which the changed location of the third party has been changed in the last segment of the most recently provided route and 2 the additional segment that is a case in which the changed location of the third party is out of the last segment of the most recently provided route and at least one segment is additionally needed to the route to arrive at the changed location of the third party the server does not perform the notification immediately when the change in location of the third party is detected but performs the notification when the terminal enters a specific segment designated by the server. The specific segment may be indicated by the positionUpdate element described in Table 5 above. In a case in which the positionUpdate element is present in the segment information and set to true the terminal is requested to upload the current location of the terminal to the server when the terminal enters this segment.

In addition when the update information corresponds to 3 the alternative route that is a case in which the changed location of the third party is out of the last segment of the most recently provided route and at least one segment is additionally needed to the route to arrive at the changed location of the third party but an alternative route more optimized to the third party is present in addition to the route existing route the server may perform the notification immediately when the change in location of the third party is detected.

Since the subscription to the notification service includes all routes related to the trip and the notification extends to an alternative route the terminal may access update information for the current route using a GET command and may read an alternative route using the GET command. In a case in which the location of the third party is changed the terminal may access location information of the third part changed as the destination in the trip resources and or the updated route resource using the GET command.

Meanwhile in the embodiment related to all of step 1 to step 10 may be sequentially performed. Alternatively some of the steps may be separately performed. That is it is not necessary for an embodiment of the present invention to include all of step 1 to step 10. Some necessary steps may be included and performed. A description of this will become clearer when referring to an example given at the end of the description of the embodiment related to .

When the location of the terminal is uploaded from the terminal the server may check or detect whether the location of the third party corresponding to the destination of the route has been changed. When the location of the third party is changed the server may generate update information for the route. The example related to relates to a case in which the third party still stays in the last segment of the route. That is referring to it can be seen that both the initial location of the third party and the changed location of the third party are present in segment 6. In this case it is not necessary to re compute the route to the third party. Since the third party is located in the last segment of the route however the server may notify the terminal of the updated location information of the third party. The notification may be performed at a specific point of time or in a specific case which will hereinafter be described. The terminal receiving the notification may access the update information.

When the location of the terminal is uploaded from the terminal the server may check or detect whether the location of the third party corresponding to the destination of the route has been changed. When the location of the third party is changed the server may generate update information for the route based on the changed location of the third party and the uploaded location of the terminal. The example related to relates to a case in which at least one segment is further needed for the third party to deviate from the route and arrive at the changed location of the third party i.e. a case in which an additional segment is needed for the terminal to arrive at the changed location of the third party after arriving at the destination of the route. Referring to it can be seen that for example segments 7 and 8 are further needed. The server may notify the terminal of the additional segments. The notification may be performed at a specific point of time or in a specific case which will hereinafter be described. The additional segments may be added to the route and the terminal is notified of the updated route and the trip resources. The terminal receiving the notification may access the update information.

When the location of the terminal is uploaded from the terminal the server may check or detect whether the location of the third party corresponding to the destination of the route has been changed. When the location of the third party is changed the server may generate update information for the route based on the changed location of the third party and the uploaded location of the terminal. The example related to relates to a case in which at least one segment is further needed for the third party to deviate from the route and arrive at the changed location of the third party and in addition there is an alternative route along which the third party can arrive at the changed location of the third party faster from the location of the terminal.

The server may compute the alternative route based on the uploaded location of the terminal and the changed location of the third party. Subsequently the server may notify the terminal of update information including the alternative route and information regarding the changed destination corresponding to the changed location of the third party. The notification may be performed at a specific point of time or in a specific case which will hereinafter be described. The terminal may access the update information.

In the embodiments related to the notification of the update information from the server to the terminal may be performed at a specific point of time or in a specific case. In other words different notification policies may be applied according to the update information types. Such discriminative notification policies are applied to reduce the number of times of interaction between the server and the terminal and resources of the server and the terminals.

In a case in which the update information is an alternative route the server notifies the terminal of the update information immediately when available. That is when the server computes or acquires an alternative route i.e. the update information more optimized than the existing route based on the uploaded location of the terminal and the changed location of the third party the server may notify the terminal of availability of the update information.

In a case in which the update information is update of the destination or an additional segment the server may notify the terminal of the update information when the terminal arrives at the vicinity of the destination of the route. The server may set positionUpdate element to the segment structure to detect whether the terminal has arrived at the vicinity of the destination of the route. For example the server may set the positionUpdate element in segment 5 or segment 6 to detect whether the terminal has arrived at the vicinity of the destination of the route. The reason that a point of time of notification varies based on the update information will be described in more detail. In a case in which the update information is an alternative route the server may immediately notify the terminal of the update information such that the terminal can acquire the alternative route since the alternative route is a new route completely different from the route previously computed by the server.

On the other hand in a case in which the update information is update of the destination or an additional segment the server may notify the terminal of the update information only when the terminal arrives at the vicinity of the destination of the previously computed route since the alternative route is equal to the route previously computed by the server or the route having only some segments added thereto. For example on the assumption that it is detected that the location of the third party set as the destination has been changed a plurality of times N the terminal is notified of the update information the plurality of times in the conventional art. According to the embodiment of the present invention on the other hand in a case in which the update information is update of the destination or an additional segment the server may notify the terminal of the update information only when the terminal arrives at the vicinity of the destination i.e. a segment designated as a specific segment . That is the notification of the update information from the server to the terminal whenever the change in location of the third party is detected may cause waste of resources and power to be used for communication between the terminal and the server. For this reason it is efficient to perform the notification of the update information when the terminal arrives at the vicinity of the destination. In the embodiments of the present invention performing this operation the number of times of notification may be reduced from N to 1.

Meanwhile for sufficient description a situation before the procedure shown in will be described in brief. When the trip destination is requested or input by the terminal using an ID of the third party the server may identify the third party through the ID of the third party. The server may detect the identified location of the third party through an external location server. The detected location of the third party is referred to as an initial location of the third party and the location of the third party at the time of request or input is referred to as an initial location of the terminal. The server may generate a route from the initial location of the terminal to the initial location of the third party hereinafter referred to as an initial route and provide the generated route to the terminal.

The server may receive location information of the terminal S . In a case in which the terminal deviates from or detours around the generated initial route or in a case in which the terminal enters a specific segment on the initial route designated by the server whenever the terminal moves by a predetermined distance the terminal may upload report or transmit the location information of the terminal to the server.

Upon receiving the location information of the terminal the server may check or detect the location information of the third party designated as the destination of the trip S . The server may determine whether the location of the third party has been changed S . That is the server may determine whether the location of the third party is different from the initial location of the third party. Steps or operations after step S relate to generation of update information for the initial route based on the movement of the third party i.e. the change in location of the third party and notification of the generated update information.

Upon determining that the location of the third party has not been changed the procedure advances to step S and it may be determined whether the terminal has arrived at the destination i.e. the location of the third party. When the terminal has arrived at the destination the procedure may end. Otherwise the procedure may return to step S.

Upon determining at step S that the location of the third party has been changed the server may check or detect whether the detected location of the third party is present in the last segment of the initial route S . Step S is performed to determine whether additional route information is needed. Upon checking or detecting that the detected location of the third party is present in the last segment of the initial route update information for the initial route according to movement of the third party is decided as update of the destination or change of the destination . That is the third party has moved in the last segment of the initial route with the result that information regarding an additional route is not needed and only the updated or changed destination is reflected in the route information of the trip.

Upon checking or detecting that the detected location of the third party is not present in the last segment of the initial route the procedure may advance to step S. That the detected location of the third party is not present in the last segment of the initial route means that an additional route is further needed for the terminal to arrive at the location of the third party. Consequently it is necessary to determine whether the additional route is a route acquired by simply adding at least one segment to the last segment of the initial route or a more optimized route i.e. an alternative route. The server may perform route calculation based on the detected or changed location of the third party and the received location of the terminal S . In other words the serer may generate update information for the route based on the detected or changed location of the third party and the received location of the terminal. The route computed at step S is referred to as an update route. 

The update route and the initial route may be compared to determine whether the update route is a route acquired by adding at least one segment to the initial route S . It is decided whether the update information is an additional segment or addition of a route or an alternative route based on the determination at step S .

According to the above description all of the update information types are checked immediately before the entry into step S of or immediately after the entry into step S of . When the update information corresponds to the update of the destination or the additional segment in this embodiment the procedure advances to step S at which the server may determine whether the terminal has approached the destination.

Determination as whether the terminal has approached the destination may be made based on determination as to whether the terminal has entered a specific segment on the initial route designated by the server. When the terminal has entered the specific segment it may be determined that the terminal has approached the destination. Otherwise it may be determined that the terminal has not approached the destination. Designation of the specific segment may be embodied as the positionUpdate element of Table 5 as previously described. The server may designate a specific segment on the initial route before the segment to which the destination belongs for example the first or second segment from the segment to which the destination belongs and set the positionUpdate element of the specific segment to true.

Determination as to whether the terminal has approached the destination is made to decide whether it is necessary to notify the terminal of the update information. In embodiments of the present invention generation and notification of the update information may be performed separately. In other words although the update information is generated due to the movement of the third party the generation of the update information may be notified only in a specific case. In embodiments of the present invention notification of the update information may be decided according to the type of the update information.

That is the server may determine whether the terminal has approached the destination S . In the embodiment related to in a case in which the update information is the update of the destination or change of the destination or the additional segment or addition of the route the server may notify the terminal of the update information when the terminal enters the specific segment designated by the server S . Otherwise the procedure may return to step S. In a case in which the update information is the alternative route on the other hand the server may notify the terminal of the update information irrespective of the location or the movement of the terminal S .

After the terminal is notified of the update information the terminal may access the update information. Such access may be performed at steps K and L of and step 10 of . Route information in the terminal and route information in the server i.e. information regarding the update route in the terminal and information regarding the update route in the server become equal to each other through the access. As a result the destination of the trip i.e. the location of the third party and the route to the location of the third party may be updated.

Subsequently the server may determine whether the terminal has arrived at the destination of the trip S . Upon determining that the terminal has arrived at the destination the procedure may end. Otherwise the procedure may return to step S.

In the embodiment related to after the update information is generated the terminal may not be notified of the update information according to circumstances. That is in a case in which the update information is the update of the destination or change of the destination or the additional segment or addition of the route the update information is not provided to the terminal and is not stored in the server when the terminal has not approved the destination. On the other hand the update information may be stored or temporarily stored in the server such that the update information can be continuously managed irrespective of whether the server notifies the terminal of the update information S . In a case in which the update information is stored or temporarily stored in the server and managed as described above the location of the third party and the route or the last segment on the route based on which determination is made at steps S and S of must be continuously updated and changed according to generation of the update information.

For example in a case in which it is determined at step S of that the terminal has not approached the destination and the notification is not needed the server may store the generated update information in a specific storage space. After that the generated update information may be continuously retained in the specific storage space although the terminal has not approached the destination. As previously mentioned the stored update information is replaced with the location of the third party and the route or the last segment on the route based on which determination is made at steps S and S of . Consequently the server continues to track the location of the third party.

Subsequently when the procedure is performed from step S and a corresponding point of time is reached immediately before entry into step S update information is additionally generated. Subsequently upon determining at step S that the terminal has not approached the destination the additionally generated update information may be replaced with the location of the third party and the route or the last segment on the route based on which determination is made at steps S and S of . Upon determining at step S that the terminal has not approached the destination the server may notify the terminal of update information acquired by combining the additionally generated update information and the location of the third party and the route or the last segment on the route based on which determination is made at steps S and S of .

That is since at least two pieces of update information have been generated without notification to the terminal it is necessary to combine the at least two pieces of update information. For example in a case in which both first update information and second update information are the addition of the segment the server may combine the first update information and second update information replace the combined update information with the location of the third party and the route or the last segment on the route based on which determination is made at steps S and S of and notify the terminal of the replaced update information.

In another example in a case in which first update information is the change of the destination and second update information is the addition of the segment the server may generate an update route having the first update information and the second update information reflected therein replace the generated update route with the location of the third party and the route or the last segment on the route based on which determination is made at steps S and S of and notify the terminal of the replaced update information.

These elements are configured to carry out the embodiments related to and a detailed description thereof will be omitted.

The embodiments as described above are combinations of elements and features of the present invention. The elements or features may be considered selective unless otherwise mentioned. Each element or feature may be practiced without being combined with other elements or features. In addition an embodiment of the present invention may be constructed by combining some of the elements and or features. Operation orders described in the embodiments of the present invention may be changed. Some elements or features of any one embodiment may be included in another embodiment or may be replaced with corresponding elements or features of another embodiment. It is obvious to those skilled in the art that claims that are not explicitly cited in each other in the appended claims may be presented in combination as an embodiment of the present invention or included as a new claim by a subsequent amendment after the application is filed.

The present invention may be carried out in other specific ways than those set forth herein without departing from the spirit and essential characteristics of the present invention. The above embodiments are therefore to be construed in all aspects as illustrative and not restrictive. The scope of the invention should be determined by rational interpretation of the appended claims and all changes coming within the equivalency range of the appended claims are intended to be embraced therein. In addition it will be obvious that claims that do not explicitly cite each other in the appended claims may be presented in combination as an exemplary embodiment of the present invention or included as a new claim by subsequent amendment after the application is filed.

