---

title: Overlaying transparency images including pixels corresponding to different heirarchical levels over a geographic map
abstract: Data records contain corresponding values of an attribute and are associated with location information. Hierarchical levels of transparency images are generated, where each of the transparency images includes corresponding pixels that represent the respective data records, and where the transparency images at different ones of the hierarchical levels correspond to different zoom levels of a geographic map. At least one of the transparency images at a dynamically-selected one of the hierarchical levels is overlaid over the geographic map according to which of the zoom levels is selected by a user in zooming of the geographic map, where the at least one transparency image is automatically selected without user input.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09087143&OS=09087143&RS=09087143
owner: Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P.
number: 09087143
owner_city: Houston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120330
---
An enterprise can receive various types of information including as examples customer feedback sales information system performance measurements and so forth. Customer reviews can be submitted online at third party sites e.g. web survey sites or social networking sites such as FACEBOOK and TWITTER or alternatively reviews can be received directly by an enterprise. Other types of information can be received from other sources. There can be potentially a relatively large number of data records containing various types of information which can make meaningful analysis of such information difficult and time consuming.

An enterprise e.g. a company educational organization government agency individual etc. may collect various types of information from various sources. As examples such information can include feedback from customers or more generally users to better understand user sentiment regarding an offering of the enterprise. An offering can include a product or a service provided by the enterprise. A sentiment refers to an attitude opinion or judgment of a human with respect to the offering. An opinion or other sentiment can be mapped to an attribute such as an attribute associated with an offering or any attribute about which is a sentiment can be expressed to indicate a degree of satisfaction or other sentiment.

User feedback can be collected from various sources such as online websites of the enterprise or third party sites such as travel review websites product review websites social networking sites such as FACEBOOK and TWITTER web survey sites and so forth.

Other types of information that can be collected by an enterprise include measurements from various monitoring devices in a system such as a network of electronic devices a data center a system of storage devices and so forth. The collected measurements can include performance measurements such as utilization of computer servers utilization of storage devices data rates through communication devices and so forth. In other examples collected information can include financial data e.g. revenue profit sales etc. of the enterprise and so forth.

Visualizing relatively large volumes of data records containing collected information can be complex and time consuming. A data record refers to a unit of data that contains collected information. For example the data record can include a user review submitted by a particular user. Also the data record can include a time attribute specifying a time at which the data record was submitted or received a location attribute identifying a location of the data record a sentiment attribute indicating a sentiment associated with a user review and or other attributes.

Traditionally visualizations of one or multiple attributes contained in data records do not effectively express geo spatial information which is information indicating geographical locations associated with the data records. Without the geo spatial information analysis of information contained in the data records such as sentiments expressed by users or other types of information may not consider effects of geographic locations with respect to the collected information.

In accordance with some implementations transparency images containing pixels representing corresponding data records can be overlaid over a geographic map for indicating geographic locations associated with various data records represented by the pixels. A geographic map refers to a graphical representation of the earth s surface or a portion of the earth s surface. A transparency image refers to an image that can be overlaid over another image that contains the geographic map such that both the content pixels of the transparency image as well as the geographic map is visible to a user. The location information in the location attribute that is associated with the data records allows for appropriate positioning of the pixels relative to the geographic map in other words the pixels are positioned in a graphical visualization based on the location information associated with the data records.

A geographic map can be displayed at different zoom levels corresponding to different user selections. To accommodate the ability to view a geographic map at different zoom levels the transparency images that can be overlaid over the geographic map can include transparency images at multiple hierarchical levels that correspond to the zoom levels. The transparency images at the different hierarchical levels can be created by recursively dividing a data space containing data records into progressively smaller partitions where each smaller partition contains a respective subset of the data records in the data space. Depending upon the selected zoom level of the geographic map the transparency image s at the corresponding one of the hierarchical levels is are selected for overlaying the geographic map. In this manner the amount of pixels representing corresponding data records that are displayed is based on the zoom level of the geographic map.

Instead of using different colors to represent different sentiments other types of visual indicators can be used instead such as different fill patterns or different gray levels assigned to the pixels. More generally different visual indicators of pixels can be used for representing different values of an attribute contained in data records.

The geographic map image includes yellow boundaries to indicate the borders of the different countries in the view of . As can be seen in the transparency image contains various clusters of pixels. Higher densities of pixels are located at geographic locations corresponding to larger cities while lower densities of pixels are associated with geographic locations where the human population is more sparse.

Due to the uneven distribution of data records at different geographic locations techniques or mechanisms according to some implementations provide for placement of pixels representing data records that avoids or reduces the likelihood of overlapping of pixels that represent different data records. For example in a city such as Los Angeles which can be associated with a relatively large number of data records a relatively large number of pixels representing the data records can share the same geometric coordinates such as geometric coordinates associated with the city of Los Angeles . Instead of placing the pixels associated with the same geometric coordinates at the same position the pixels can be placed in nearby positions within a defined region. By placing pixels sharing the same geometric coordinates in nearby positions clusters of such pixels are formed such as clusters and so forth shown in .

If pixels corresponding to data records that share the same geometric coordinates were placed at the same position in a graphical visualization then the graphical visualization would indicate the presence of just one data record at that position even though potentially there can be hundreds or thousands of data records sharing the same geometric coordinates. By using placement techniques according to some implementations occlusion of data records in the graphical visualization can be avoided or reduced.

The transparency images depicted in contain pixels in partitions that have been partitioned from a partition corresponding to the transparency image of . In the foregoing example it is assumed that there is just one transparency image for the hierarchical level depicted in . In different examples there can be multiple transparency images associated with the view of .

Also in a pop up box is depicted which is displayed in response to a user selection of a particular pixel in the transparency image s of . The pop up box contains additional detailed information of the data record represented by the selected pixel. Selection of the pixel can be in response to a user using an input device moving a cursor over the pixel. Alternatively the pixel selection can be based on a user double clicking over the pixel. In the pop up box the x and y attributes represent longitude and latitude coordinates and the z attribute represents other information. Also a comment from a user Watching Panda Movie on Channel 2 can be displayed in the pop up box .

The process overlays at at least one of the transparency images at a dynamically selected one of the hierarchical levels according to which of the zoom levels is selected by a user in zooming varying the zoom of the geographic map where the at least one transparency image is automatically selected without user input or awareness. When a user changes the zoom level of the geographic map then transparency image s at a different one of the hierarchical levels is are selected dynamically for overlaying over the zoomed portion of the geographic map. Dynamic selection of a hierarchical level can refer to selection of the hierarchical level on the fly or on a real time basis in response to user selections of zoom levels for the geographic map.

Reference is made to in the following discussion. is a flow diagram of a more detailed visualization process according to further implementations. The process recursively divides at a data space containing data records into progressively smaller partitions that correspond to different hierarchical levels. Transparency images are then generated at for the respective partitions.

The original data space is the largest partition at hierarchical level 0 . In this largest partition at hierarchical level 0 is represented by the red boundary . The partition represented by boundary can be divided into four partitions at hierarchical level 1 as indicated by the blue dashed lines . Each of the partitions at hierarchical level 1 can in turn be divided into partitions at hierarchical level 2 as indicated by the yellow dashed lines . The transparency image for the partition at hierarchical level 0 has a size corresponding to boundary . Four transparency images are generated for the four partitions at hierarchical level 1 with each transparency image at hierarchical level 1 having to size defined by a rectangle corresponding to the blue boundary . There are 16 transparency images for the partitions at hierarchical level 2 with each transparency image at hierarchical level 2 having a size defined by a rectangle corresponding to the yellow boundary .

As further shown in the division of a partition is a division into a northeast NE quadrant a southeast SE quadrant a southwest SW quadrant and a northwest NW quadrant .

The process of then builds at a hierarchy similar to a QuadTree hierarchy of the transparency images that correspond to different hierarchical levels. The process then assigns at to each transparency image a corresponding geo spatial location e.g. a location defined by a pair of longitude and latitude coordinates . The geo spatial locations of the transparency images can then be used to place these transparency images into zoomed portions of a geographic map. Stated differently the geo spatial locations of the transparency images can be used to synchronize selected ones of the transparency images with a displayed portion of the geographic map. Depending on what zoomed portion of the geographic map is visible note that a subset of the transparency images at a particular hierarchical level may be displayed.

The process receives at a zoom level for display of a geographic map. The process then selects at the transparency image s to overlay over the zoomed portion of the geographic map.

The pseudocode above exports subtiles which correspond to the transparency images described above. The parameter maxLevel indicates the number of hierarchical levels for which transparency images are to be created. Line 3 of the pseudocode specifies that the different levels are iteratively processed starting at level 0 and proceeding to maxLevel. Line 4 of the pseudocode defines the width tileWidth of each subtile at the current level and line 5 of the pseudocode specifies the number of subtiles at the current level.

For each of the subtiles at the current level the pixels from the respective portion of the data set are exported for inclusion in the respective subtile transparency image at lines 6 15 of the pseudocode.

The transparency image overlay visualization module can be implemented as machine readable instructions executable on one or multiple processors . The processor s can be connected to a storage medium or storage media and to a network interface . A processor can include a microprocessor a micro controller a processor module or subsystem a programmable integrated circuit a programmable gate array or another control or computing device. The storage medium can store a data set that has been received by the system where the data set can include various data records that contain attribute values according to some implementations.

The system also includes various application programming interfaces APIs . Different ones of the APIs can be used for different geographic maps to allow transparency images generated by the transparency image overlay visualization module to be overlaid onto the respective geographic map using the appropriate API.

The storage medium or storage media can be implemented as one or more computer readable or machine readable storage media. The storage media include different forms of memory including semiconductor memory devices such as dynamic or static random access memories DRAMs or SRAMs erasable and programmable read only memories EPROMs electrically erasable and programmable read only memories EEPROMs and flash memories magnetic disks such as fixed floppy and removable disks other magnetic media including tape optical media such as compact disks CDs or digital video disks DVDs or other types of storage devices. Note that the instructions discussed above can be provided on one computer readable or machine readable storage medium or alternatively can be provided on multiple computer readable or machine readable storage media distributed in a large system having possibly plural nodes. Such computer readable or machine readable storage medium or media is are considered to be part of an article or article of manufacture . An article or article of manufacture can refer to any manufactured single component or multiple components. The storage medium or media can be located either in the machine running the machine readable instructions or located at a remote site from which machine readable instructions can be downloaded over a network for execution.

In the foregoing description numerous details are set forth to provide an understanding of the subject disclosed herein. However implementations may be practiced without some or all of these details. Other implementations may include modifications and variations from the details discussed above. It is intended that the appended claims cover such modifications and variations.

