---

title: Methods and devices for scrolling a display page
abstract: Methods and devices for scrolling a display page are described. In one aspect, the present application describes a method implemented by a processor of an electronic device. The electronic device has a display and an input interface. The method includes: displaying a first portion of a display page on the display; receiving, via the input interface, a scrolling command to scroll the display page in a first direction; and, while receiving the scrolling command: determining that an edge of the display page is reached, and in response to determining that the edge of the display page is reached, maintaining the edge of the display page on the display and graphically tilting the display page inwards.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09082348&OS=09082348&RS=09082348
owner: BLACKBERRY LIMITED
number: 09082348
owner_city: Waterloo, Ontario
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20121207
---
The present application relates to user interface management and more particularly to methods and electronic devices for scrolling a display page of a user interface displayed on a display.

Electronic devices such as smartphones and tablet computers are equipped or associated with various input interfaces. The input interfaces provide mechanisms for inputting instructions to the electronic devices to perform associated functions. For example the electronic devices may be equipped with navigational input devices such as a trackball a track pad or a touchscreen display and or a physical keyboard. A user may input instructions to the electronic devices by interacting with one or more of these navigational input devices to cause the electronic devices to perform the associated functions.

The instructions input to the electronic devices may be used for interacting with user interfaces of the electronic devices. Instructions may be input to navigate within the user interfaces. For example a user interface may provide one or more display pages that may be scrolled by a user by inputting scrolling functions. Scrolling is the process of graphically moving a display page up down diagonally or across a display of the electronic device. By scrolling a display page a user may access all of the content of the display page.

During a scrolling operation a user may reach the edge of the display page. Present systems may provide a scroll bar indicator or cause an abrupt end of the scrolling operation to indicate that the edge of the display page is reached. However such indications are not very intuitive and provide for a poor user experience to a user when navigating display pages on a user interface.

In one aspect the present application describes a method implemented by a processor of an electronic device. The electronic device has a display and an input interface. The method includes displaying a first portion of a display page on the display receiving via the input interface a scrolling command to scroll the display page in a first direction and while receiving the scrolling command determining that an edge of the display page is reached and in response to determining that the edge of the display page is reached maintaining the edge of the display page on the display and graphically tilting the display page inwards.

In another aspect the present application describes an electronic device. The electronic device includes a display an input interface and a memory. The electronic device also includes a processor coupled with the display the input interface and the memory. The processor is configured to display a first portion of a display page on the display receive via the input interface a scrolling command to scroll the display page in a first direction and while receiving the scrolling command determine that an edge of the display page is reached and in response to determining that the edge of the display page is reached maintain the edge of the display page on the display and graphically tilt the display page inwards.

In yet another aspect the present application describes a computer readable storage medium. The computer readable storage medium includes computer executable instructions which when executed configure a processor to display a first portion of a display page on a display receive via an input interface a scrolling command to scroll the display page in a first direction and while receiving the scrolling command determine that an edge of the display page is reached and in response to determining that the edge of the display page is reached maintain the edge of the display page on the display and graphically tilt the display page inwards.

Other example embodiments of the present disclosure will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art from a review of the following detailed description in conjunction with the drawings.

Example embodiments of the present disclosure are not limited to any particular operating system electronic device architecture server architecture or computer programming language.

Reference is first made to which illustrates an example electronic device . In the illustrated example embodiment the electronic device is a communication device such as a mobile communication device. In at least some example embodiments the electronic device is a two way communication device having data and voice communication capabilities and the capability to communicate with other computer systems for example via the Internet. Depending on the functionality provided by the electronic device in various example embodiments the electronic device may be a multiple mode communication device configured for data and voice communications a mobile telephone such as a smart phone a tablet computer such as a slate computer a wearable computer such as a watch a PDA personal digital assistant or a computer system. In other example embodiments the electronic device may be of a type not specifically listed above.

The electronic device includes a housing not shown housing the components of the electronic device . The internal components of the electronic device are constructed on a printed circuit board PCB . The electronic device includes a controller including at least one processor such as a microprocessor which controls the overall operation of the electronic device . It will be appreciated that in at least some example embodiments the controller may instead of or in addition to the processor include an analog circuit or other types of circuits capable of performing a part or all of the functions of the processor that are described herein. The processor interacts with device subsystems such as a wireless communication subsystem for exchanging radio frequency signals with a wireless network to perform communication functions. The processor interacts with additional device subsystems including one or more input interfaces such as a keyboard one or more control buttons one or more microphones and or a touch sensitive overlay associated with a touchscreen display flash memory random access memory RAM read only memory ROM auxiliary input output I O subsystems a data port which may be a serial data port such as a Universal Serial Bus USB data port one or more output interfaces such as a display which may be a liquid crystal display LCD one or more speakers or other output interfaces a short range communication subsystem and other device subsystems generally designated as . Some of the subsystems shown in perform communication related functions whereas other subsystems may provide resident or on device functions.

The electronic device includes a touchscreen display in this embodiment. The touchscreen display may be constructed using a touch sensitive input surface connected to an electronic controller. The touch sensitive input surface overlays the display and may be referred to as a touch sensitive overlay. The touch sensitive overlay and the electronic controller provide a touch sensitive input interface and the processor interacts with the touch sensitive overlay via the electronic controller. That is the touchscreen display acts as both an input interface and an output interface .

The electronic device is connected to a communication network such as a wireless network which may include one or more of a Wireless Wide Area Network WWAN and a Wireless Local Area Network WLAN or other suitable network arrangements. In at least some example embodiments the electronic device is configured to communicate over both the WWAN and WLAN and to roam between these networks. In at least some example embodiments the wireless network may include multiple WWANs and WLANs.

The particular design of the wireless communication subsystem depends on the wireless network in which the electronic device is intended to operate. The electronic device may send and receive communication signals over the wireless network after the required network registration or activation procedures have been completed.

In at least some example embodiments the auxiliary input output I O subsystems may include an external communication link or interface for example an Ethernet connection. The electronic device may include other wireless communication interfaces for communicating with other types of wireless networks for example a wireless network such as an orthogonal frequency division multiplexed OFDM network. The auxiliary I O subsystems may include a pointing or navigational tool input device such as a clickable trackball or scroll wheel or thumbwheel or a vibrator for providing vibratory notifications in response to various events on the electronic device such as receipt of an electronic message or incoming phone call or for other purposes such as haptic feedback i.e. touch feedback .

In at least some example embodiments the electronic device also includes a removable memory module typically including flash memory and a memory module interface . Network access may be associated with a subscriber or user of the electronic device via the memory module which may be a Subscriber Identity Module SIM card for use in a GSM network or other type of memory module for use in the relevant wireless network. The memory module may be inserted in or connected to the memory module interface of the electronic device in order to operate in conjunction with the wireless network .

The electronic device may store data in an erasable persistent memory which in one example embodiment is the flash memory . In various example embodiments the data may include service data having information required by the electronic device to establish and maintain communication with the wireless network . The data may also include user application data such as email messages address book and contact information calendar and schedule information notepad documents image files and other commonly stored user information stored on the electronic device by its user and other data. The data stored in the persistent memory e.g. flash memory of the electronic device may be organized at least partially into a number of databases or data stores each containing data items of the same data type or associated with the same application. For example email messages contact records and task items may be stored in individual databases within the memory of the electronic device .

In at least some example embodiments the electronic device is provided with a service routing application programming interface API which provides an application with the ability to route traffic through a serial data i.e. USB or Bluetooth Bluetooth is a registered trademark of Bluetooth SIG Inc. connection to the host computer system using standard connectivity protocols.

The electronic device also includes a battery as a power source which is typically one or more rechargeable batteries that may be charged for example through charging circuitry coupled to a battery interface such as the serial data port . The battery provides electrical power to at least some of the electrical circuitry in the electronic device and the battery interface provides a mechanical and electrical connection for the battery . The battery interface is coupled to a regulator not shown which provides power V to the circuitry of the electronic device .

The short range communication subsystem is an additional optional component which provides for communication between the electronic device and different systems or devices which need not necessarily be similar devices. For example the short range communication subsystem may include an infrared device and associated circuits and components or a wireless bus protocol compliant communication mechanism such as a Bluetooth communication module to provide for communication with similarly enabled systems and devices.

A pre determined set of applications that control basic device operations including data and possibly voice communication applications may be installed on the electronic device during or after manufacture. Additional applications and or upgrades to an operating system or software applications may also be loaded onto the electronic device through the wireless network the auxiliary I O subsystem the data port the short range communication subsystem or other suitable device subsystems . The downloaded programs or code modules may be permanently installed for example written into the program memory i.e. the flash memory or written into and executed from the RAM for execution by the processor at runtime.

The processor operates under stored program control and executes software modules stored in memory such as persistent memory for example in the flash memory . As illustrated in the software modules include operating system software and other software applications including the user interface module . In the example embodiment of the user interface module is implemented as a separate stand alone application but in other example embodiments the user interface module may be implemented as part of the operating system or another application .

The electronic device may include a range of additional software applications including for example a notepad application a contact records application which may perform the functions of an address book and allows contact records to be created and stored a calendar application which may allow event records to be created and stored a mapping application or a media player application or any combination thereof. Each of the software applications may include layout information defining the placement of particular fields and graphic elements for example text fields input fields icons etc. in a graphical user interface GUI associated with the application. A GUI is a type of user interface that allows the user to interact with a device and or an application utilizing images icons text and other selectable graphical elements. The GUI represents information and actions available to the user through graphical icons and visual indicators. The software applications may also include information to navigate within the GUI associated with the software application . The information may define GUI specific user input instructions to perform various navigation functions and features within the GUI. For example a user may input a particular instruction via the input interface for example a swiping gesture on a touchscreen display of the electronic device to perform a scrolling function on a display page provided by the GUI.

The software modules or parts thereof may be temporarily loaded into volatile memory such as the RAM . The RAM is used for storing runtime data variables and other types of data or information. Although specific functions are described for various types of memory this is merely one example and a different assignment of functions to types of memory could also be used.

The user interface module provides a platform for a user to interact with one or more software application . For example the user interface module may provide a GUI for one or more associated software applications . The user interface module may enable a user to execute the various functions and features of the associated one or more software applications .

In at least some example embodiments the user interface module may include information for navigating within the associated one or more software applications . For example the user interface module may receive a navigation instruction from a user of the electronic device for example via the input interface and in response to receiving the navigation instruction perform the corresponding navigational function and feature within the associated software application . The user interface module may display a display page associated with the software application for example the user interface module may display a display page of a contact record for a contact manager application and in response to receiving a navigation instruction perform the corresponding navigational function and feature within the display page. In at least some example embodiments the navigational functions and features performed on the display page may include a scrolling function i.e. graphically moving the display page up down diagonally or across the display to display other portions of the display page a zooming in function graphically magnifying the display page to display a portion of the display page magnified and or a zooming out function graphically shrinking the display page to display more or all of the portions of the display page . It will be appreciated that other navigational functions and features may be performed on the display page by the user interface module .

In at least some example embodiments the user interface module may not allow a scrolling function to be performed when the edge of the display page is reached. For example the display page on the display may not include any other portions in the particular scrolling direction i.e. the edge of the display page is reached . The user interface module may instead provide an indication that the edge of the display page is reached. For example in such example embodiments the user interface module may display a first portion of a display page on the display and receive via the input interface a scrolling command to scroll the display page in a first direction. While receiving the scrolling command the user interface module may determine if the edge of the display page is reached and when the edge of the display page is reached maintain the edge of the display page on the display and graphically tilt a remainder of the first portion of the display page inwards. Accordingly by maintaining the edge of the display page on the display and graphically tilting the remainder of the first portion of the display page inwards the user interface module provides an indication to the user that the edge of the display page is reached.

In at least some example embodiments while receiving the scrolling command the user interface module may further detect an increase in duration of the scrolling command and in response to detecting the increase in the duration of the scrolling command increase the degree of tilting of the remainder of the first portion of the display page inwards. For example if the scrolling command is a swiping gesture being received from a user via a touchscreen display and the edge of the display page is reached further swiping by the user as part of scrolling command may cause an increase in the degree of tilting of the remainder of the first portion of the display page inwards. Alternatively instead of further swiping being indicative of increased duration of the scrolling command the increased duration may be indicated by continued touch contact i.e. lack of a detected end or release of the touchscreen swipe input . That is as long as the user continues to make contact with the touchscreen display the scrolling command is considered to be ongoing until either the contact is released or the user swipes in a different e.g. opposite direction.

Additionally in at least some example embodiments while receiving the scrolling command the user interface module may determine if the duration of the scrolling command is greater than a pre determined threshold and when the duration of the scrolling command is greater than the pre determined threshold the user interface module may display a zoomed out display page. For example if the scrolling command is a swiping gesture being received from a user via a touchscreen display and the edge of the display page is reached further swiping by the user as part of the scrolling command or lack of a detected end of the swiping command may further increase the degree of tilting of the remainder of the first portion display page and may eventually no longer display a graphically tiled display page and instead display a zoomed out display page. Navigational functions and features may then be performed on the zoomed out display page. For example the zoomed out display page may be zoomed in and or scrolled or further zoomed out if the display page is not completely zoomed out .

In one sense the display page may appear hinged along the edge shown in the display insofar as scrolling swiping commands cause the display page to swing inwards into the display as though hinged along the displayed edge.

In at least some example embodiments the user interface module may detect a termination of the scrolling command and in response to detecting the termination of the scrolling command display the display page untilted. For example if the scrolling command is a swiping gesture being received from a user via a touchscreen display and the user ends the swiping gesture i.e. the scrolling command terminates the user interface module no longer displays a graphically tilted remainder of the first portion of the display page and instead displays the display page untilted. For example the user interface module may return the display page to the state prior to graphically tilting the remainder of the first portion of the display page e.g. the first portion of the display page is again displayed .

Specific functions and features of the user interface module will be discussed in greater detail below with reference to .

In at least some example embodiments the operating system may perform some or all of the functions of the user interface module . In other example embodiments the functions or a portion of the functions of the user interface module may be performed by one or more other applications. Further while the user interface module has been illustrated as a single block the user interface module may include a plurality of software modules. In at least some example embodiments these software modules may be divided among multiple applications.

Referring now to a flowchart of an example method of scrolling a display page is illustrated. The electronic device may be configured to perform the method of . In at least some example embodiments the processor of the electronic device is configured to perform the method of . One or more applications or modules on the electronic device may contain computer readable instructions which cause the processor of the electronic device to perform the method of . In at least some example embodiments the user interface module stored in memory of the electronic device is configured to perform the method of . More particularly the user interface module may contain computer readable instructions which when executed cause the processor to perform the method of . It will be appreciated that the method of may in at least some example embodiments be provided by other software applications or modules apart from those specifically discussed above such as the operating system . Accordingly any features which are referred to as being performed by the electronic device may be performed by any one or more of the software applications or modules referred to above or other software modules.

In at least some example embodiments at least some of the method of may be performed by or may rely on other applications or modules which interface with the user interface module . For example the user interface module may be equipped with an application programming interface API which allows other software applications or modules to access features of the user interface module .

The method includes at the electronic device displaying a first portion of a display page on the display . For example an application may be accessed on the electronic device and content for the associated application is displayed on the display page. For example the content displayed on the display page may include a list or tiled page of thumbnails of images for an image application a contact list for a contact manager application a word document for a word processor application a webpage for a web browser application an email message for an email application etc. It will be appreciated that the content displayed on the display page may include any type of content depending on the associated application being accessed on the electronic device .

The display page includes at least a first portion. For example in at least some example embodiments the first portion may display all of the content. That is the display page may only include a first portion which displays all of the content. A user may view all of the content on the displayed first portion of the display page. However in at least some example embodiments the display page may include a plurality of portions such as a first portion and a second portion. In such example embodiments the plurality of portions may not be simultaneously displayed on the display at least at the current zoom magnification. For example the display page may only display a part of the display page on the display . A user may need to scroll the display page to move between the first portion and the second portion in order to access all of the content of the display page.

At the electronic device may receive via the input interface a scrolling command to scroll the display page in a first direction. That is the electronic device receives a navigation instruction for graphically moving the display page in a first direction on the display of the electronic device . The first direction may be any direction of movement of the display page on the display for example an upward downward diagonal or cross movement of the display page on the display .

The scrolling instruction may be received for example from an input interface associated with the electronic device . For example the instruction may be received from a navigational input device such as a trackball track pad touchscreen display and or key pad or keyboard. In at least some example embodiments the scrolling instruction may be a swiping gesture on a touchscreen display of the electronic device . That is a user may perform a swiping gesture on a touchscreen display to input the scrolling instruction to scroll the display page in the first direction. The swiping gesture may be a swipe in a direction opposite to the first direction.

While receiving the first scrolling command the electronic device at may determine if an edge of the display page is reached. That is the electronic device may check if one of the edges of the display page has been scrolled onto the display . For example in at least some example embodiments the electronic device may determine that the edge of the display page is reached when the display page is not capable of being graphically scrolled. For example if the display page only includes a first portion which displays all of the content the electronic device may determine that the edge of the display page is reached when the first portion is displayed as the display page may not be further graphically scrolled.

However in at least some example embodiments when the display page includes a plurality of portions such as a first portion and a second portion the display page may be capable of being further graphically scrolled. For example while receiving the scrolling command the electronic device may instead graphically scroll the display page in the first direction to display the second portion of the display page on the display . That is the display page is graphically moved to display the second portion from the first portion. In such example embodiments when the first portion is being displayed the electronic device may determine that the edge of the display page is not reached for example as the display page may be further scrolled in the first direction . When the second portion of the display page is displayed the electronic device may then determine that the edge of the display page is reached for example as the display page may not be further scrolled in the first direction . It will be appreciated that the detection or determination of whether an edge of the display page has been reached may involve determining from a pointer to a location in the display page from the respective axis of the display and the display page whether an edge of the display page in the first direction is within the display. In such example embodiments the scrollable portion of the display page may be within a window in a larger display frame shown in the display in which case the electronic device determines if the edge of the display page is now visible in the window.

In response to determining that the edge of the display page is reached the electronic device at may maintain the edge of the display page and graphically tilt a remainder of the first portion of the display page inwards. That is the edge of the display page is maintained at a fixed position while the remainder of the first portion of the display page is graphically tilted inwards. For example in at least some example embodiments graphically tilting a remainder of the first portion of the display page includes pivoting the remainder of the first portion of the display page around the edge of the display page. That is the edge of the display page is a stationary portion with the remainder of the first portion of the display page pivoting inwards about the stationary edge of the display page. Accordingly a hinge mechanism is formed with the edge of the display page being the fixed portion and the remainder of the first portion of the display page swinging inwards around the fixed edge of the display page.

It will be appreciated that the edge of the display page may depend on the direction of scrolling of the display page. For example if the first direction of scrolling is an upwards direction which may be caused using a downward swipe scrolling command in some embodiments the edge of the display page will be a top portion of the display page. In such example embodiments when the edge of the display page is determined to be reached the remainder of the first portion of the display page will be tilted inwards around the fixed top portion of the display page. Similarly in at least some example embodiments if the first direction of scrolling is a downward direction the edge of the display page will be a bottom portion of the display page. In such example embodiments when the edge of the display page is determined to be reached the remainder of the first portion of the display page will be tilted inwards around the fixed bottom portion of the display page. Similarly in at least some example embodiments if the first direction of scrolling is in a cross direction i.e. across the display the edge of the display page will be a side portion of the display page. In such example embodiments when the edge of the display page is determined to be reached the remainder of the first portion of the display page will be tilted inwards around the fixed side portion of the display page.

In at least some example embodiments when the display page includes a plurality of portions such as a first portion and a second portion in determining that the edge of the display page is reached the electronic device may further graphically tilt a remainder of the second portion of the display page. For example if the display page is graphically scrolled from the first portion to the second portion and the edge of the display page is determined to be reached which may be the bottom portion of the second portion of the display page the edge of the display page is maintained and the remainder of the second portion of the display page is graphically tilted inwards.

However in at least some example embodiments when the display page includes a plurality of portions such as a first portion and a second portion and the edge of the display page is determined to be reached when the first portion of the display page is displayed i.e. the direction of scrolling is not in a direction that graphically moves the display page from the first portion to the second portion and the edge of the display page may be the top portion of the first portion of the display page the electronic device in graphically tilting a remainder of the first portion of the display page may also display the second portion of the display page on the display tilted. That is the remainder of the first portion and the second portion are displayed tilted inwards around the edge of the display page. By pivoting the remainder of the first portion of the display page around the fixed edge of the display page the second portion of the display page is also pivoted around the fixed edge of the display page. That is the second portion swings inwards with the remainder of the first portion around the fixed edge of the display page. Accordingly the remainder of the first portion and the second portion are displayed graphically tilted inwards.

It should be noted that the terms first portion and second portion are used to refer to different portions of an overall page or list. The scrolling transition between the first portion and the second portion in most embodiments is a smooth one in which parts of both portions are visible in the display as the page scrolls. It is not intended to suggest that the transition from the first portion to the second portion is abrupt like a page turn.

At the electronic device may detect termination of the scrolling command. That is the electronic device may detect that input of the scrolling command ends. For example if the scrolling command is a swiping gesture being received from a user via a touchscreen display of the electronic device and the user ends the swiping gesture by for example no longer touching the touchscreen display the electronic device may detect termination of the scrolling command. In at least some example embodiments the electronic device may continuously receive the scrolling command when a user performs a continuous swiping gesture in the same direction and or maintains continuous contact on the touchscreen display and may detect termination of the scrolling command when the user stops the swiping gesture releases contact of the touchscreen display or reverses the gesture to swipe in the opposite direction.

In response to detecting termination of the scrolling command the electronic device at may display the display page untilted. That is the graphically tilted remainder of the first portion of the display page is no longer displayed and instead the display page is displayed untilted. For example the electronic device may return to displaying the portion of the display page that includes the edge of the display page which is displayed prior to graphically tilting the remainder of the first portion of the display page. For example the first portion of the display page may be again displayed or in at least some example embodiments the second portion of the display page may be displayed if the display page includes a first portion and a second portion . The display page may snap back to an untilted view in some embodiments. The display page may swing back to the untilted position is some other embodiments.

Referring now to a flowchart of another example method of scrolling a display page is illustrated. The electronic device may be configured to perform the method of . In at least some example embodiments the processor of the electronic device is configured to perform the method of . One or more applications or modules on the electronic device may contain computer readable instructions which cause the processor of the electronic device to perform the method of . In at least some example embodiments the user interface module stored in memory of the electronic device is configured to perform the method of . More particularly the user interface module may contain computer readable instructions which when executed cause the processor to perform the method of . It will be appreciated that the method of may in at least some example embodiments be provided by other software applications or modules apart from those specifically discussed above such as the operating system . Accordingly any features which are referred to as being performed by the electronic device may be performed by any one or more of the software applications or modules referred to above or other software modules.

In at least some example embodiments at least some of the method of may be performed by or may rely on other applications or modules which interface with the user interface module . For example the user interface module may be equipped with an application programming interface API which allows other software applications or modules to access features of the user interface module .

In at least some example embodiments the method may be performed within i.e. during receipt of a scrolling command and after of method of .

The method includes at detecting an increase in duration of a scrolling command. That is the electronic device detects an increase in the length of time of the scrolling command. For example as mentioned above the method may be performed within and after of method of . Accordingly while receiving the scrolling command the electronic device may detect an increase in the length of time of receiving the scrolling command and such detection is performed after the edge of the display page is determined to be reached. For example in at least some example embodiments the scrolling command may be a swiping gesture being received from a user via a touchscreen display of the electronic device . When the edge of the display is reached further continuous swiping i.e. swiping without breaking contact with the touchscreen display by the user may be detected as an increase in duration of the scrolling command by the electronic device . Alternatively maintaining contact with the touchscreen display may be detected as an increase in duration of the scrolling command even without continued swiping movement in some embodiments.

In response to detecting an increase in the duration of the scrolling command the electronic device at may increase the degree of tilting of the remainder of the first portion of the display page inwards. That is after the length of time of the scrolling command is increased the degree of inward tilting of the remainder of the first portion is increased so that the remainder of the first portion is tilted further inwards than when the edge of the display page is first determined. In at least some example embodiments the degree of tilting may be proportional to the duration of the scrolling command. That is detecting a longer duration of the scrolling command may cause a further degree of inward tilting of the remainder of the first portion than when detecting a shorter duration of the command. For example in at least some example embodiments the scrolling command may be a swiping gesture being received from a user via a touchscreen display of the electronic device . When the edge of the display page is reached further continuous swiping by the user may be detected and cause the remainder of the first portion to further tilt inwards. In such example embodiments a longer duration of continuous swiping by the user may cause the remainder of the first portion to tilt more inwards than a shorter duration of continuous swiping. That is the degree of tilting is varied by the length of time of swiping by the user.

In at least some example embodiments an increase in the distance swiped for a scrolling command may in addition to or instead of an increase in the duration of the scrolling command may increase the degree of tilting of the remainder of the first portion of the display page inwards. For example in at least some example embodiments the scrolling command may be a swiping gesture being received from a user via a touchscreen display of the electronic device . In such example embodiments when the edge of the display page is reached an increase in the distance of swiping i.e. an increase in the length of contact covered during the swiping gesture may proportionally increase the degree of tilting of the remainder of the first portion of the display page inwards. Accordingly the degree of tilting may be changed by the distance of swiping on the touchscreen display by the user.

At the electronic device may determine if the duration of the scrolling command is greater than a pre determined threshold. That is the electronic device may compare the length of time of the scrolling command to a pre determined threshold to check if the length of time of the scrolling command is greater than the pre determined threshold. For example if the scrolling command is a swiping gesture being receiving from a user via a touchscreen display of the electronic device and when the edge of the display is reached further continuous swiping by the user may cause the remainder of the first portion of the display page to further tilt inwards then this length of time of swiping by the user is compared to a pre determined threshold to check if it is greater than the pre determined threshold.

When the duration of the scrolling command is greater than the pre determined threshold the electronic device at may display a zoomed out display page. That is when the length of time of the scrolling command is determined to be greater than the pre determined threshold the tilted remainder of the first portion is no longer displayed and instead the display page is displayed zoomed out. For example if the scrolling command is a swiping gesture being receiving from a user via a touchscreen display of the electronic device and when the edge of the display page is reached further continuous swiping by the user may cause the remainder of the first portion of the display page to further tilt inwards until a threshold point is reached. That is the electronic device may check if the length of time of swiping is greater than the pre determined threshold and when the length of time of swiping is greater than the pre determined threshold the remainder of the first portion of the display page tilted inwards may no longer be displayed and instead a zoomed display page is displayed. Accordingly the user may only continuously swipe for a certain length of time which is based on the pre determined threshold prior to the electronic device changing the display page from a tilted remainder of the first portion to a zoomed out display page. Similarly the remainder of the first portion of the display page may only be tilted to a particular maximum degree which is based on the pre determined threshold prior to a zoomed out display page being displayed. The transition from tilted to zoomed out may be rendered graphically as a breaking away of the displayed hinged edge of the display page.

The pre determined threshold may be a fixed value i.e. it may not be changed . However in at least some example embodiments the pre determined threshold may be varied i.e. it may be changed . For example in at least some example embodiments the pre determined threshold may be based on applying one or more historical preferences. The one or more historical preferences may be determined based on previous patterns of usage of the electronic device. For example information of a user s previous scrolling patterns may be collected and analyzed to determine a historical preference. For example if the scrolling command is a swiping gesture on a touchscreen display of the electronic device the electronic device may collect information related to the length of time of previous continuous swiping gestures in order to determine a historical preference. This information may be continuously collected and used to update the historical preference. Accordingly in at least some example embodiments the pre determined threshold may be set based on a historical preference related to the length of time of previous continuous swiping gestures. For example if a user of the electronic device historically performs continuously short swiping gestures when the edge of the display page is reached the pre determined threshold may be set at a lower value i.e. a shorter continuous swiping gesture may be required in order to change from a tilted remainder of a first portion of a display to a zoomed out display page . While if a user of the electronic device historically performs continuously long swiping gestures when the edge of the display page is reached the pre determined threshold may be set at a higher value i.e. a longer continuous swiping gesture may be required in order to change from a tilted remainder of a first portion of a display to a zoomed out display page . It will be appreciated that the historical preferences may be determined based on other or a combination of different types of previous patterns of usage of the electronic device .

In at least some example embodiments the zoomed out display page may display all of the portions of the display page. That is the zoomed out display page may be a graphically shrunk version of the display page that displays all of the portions of the display page on the display . For example if the display page includes a first portion and a second portion the zoomed out display page displays the first portion and the second portion on the display . Accordingly a user of the electronic device may view the first portion and the second portion and all of the associated content within the first portion and the second portion simultaneously on the display without the need for further scrolling.

In at least some other example embodiments the zoomed out display page may not display all of the portions of the display page. Rather the zoomed out display page may display more of the portions of the display page than when only an unzoomed out portion of the display page is displayed. For example if the display page includes a first portion a second portion and a third portion the zoomed out display page may display the first portion and the second portion but not the third portion on the display . In such example embodiments the zoomed out display page may need to be further scrolled to display the third portion of the display page.

As the zoomed out display page may be a graphically shrunk version of the display page that displays all of the portions of the display page on the display the content within these portions may also be reduced in size. For example the pixel size of the content within the zoomed out display page may be reduced in comparison to the content when only the first portion or the second portion of the display page is displayed. Accordingly in at least some example embodiments the electronic device may insert one or more identifiers to the content of the zoomed out display page to indicate one or more sections within the content of the zoomed out display page. That is the electronic device adds one or more identifiers to the content of the zoomed out display page to identify sections for the content of the zoomed out display page.

For example in at least some example embodiments the display page may include an alphabetical list such as an alphabetical list of contacts when a contact manager application is accessed . For example the alphabetical list is within the content of the zoomed out display page. The zoomed out display page may display the full alphabetical list on the display or a portion of the full list. In either case the text of individual entries may be too small to read reliably. In such example embodiments the electronic device may insert identifiers to the alphabetical list of the zoomed out display page that include letters indicating alphabetical sections of the list. For example the identifier letter A may be added to section all of the items for example contact names within the list associated with the letter A for example contact names starting with the letter A the identifier letter B may be added to section all of the items for example contact names within the list associated with the letter B for example contact names starting with the letter B . Accordingly a user viewing the alphabetical list in the zoomed out display page may identify sections for the alphabetical list based on the identifiers. The inserted identifiers may be temporary and may be removed by the electronic device when the zoomed out display page is further navigated for example zoomed in .

As mentioned above the zoomed out display page may be further navigated. For example the zoomed out display page may be zoomed in. That is a portion of the zoomed out display page may be magnified and displayed on the display . In at least some example embodiments the zoomed out display page may be scrolled or further zoomed out for example if the zoomed out display page does not display all of the portions of the displayed page .

Reference is next made to which show an example embodiment of a display page on the display of the electronic device . More particularly may illustrate the display page at various operations of method of and method of .

Referring first to which shows an example embodiment of an example display page on the display of the electronic device . The display page may be provided by a user interface e.g. a GUI for one or more associated applications . In the illustrated example of the display page may be provided by a user interface for an image application for example as the display page includes a tiled page of images . The display page includes a first portion that is displayed on the display . The display page also includes a second portion shown in which is not displayed on the display . The display page includes the edge of the display page i.e. the top part of the first portion of the display page . In the example embodiment the electronic device receives via an input interface a scrolling command to scroll the display page in a first direction i.e. in an upwards direction the downward arrow indicates a downward swiping gesture that corresponds to an upwards scrolling command . The scrolling command may for example be a downward swiping gesture performed by a user on a touchscreen display displaying the display page . The downward swiping gesture may be a command to scroll the display page in an upward direction. While receiving such a scrolling command the electronic device may determine that the edge of the display page is reached and in response to determining that the edge of the display page is reached the electronic device maintains the edge of the display page on the display and graphically tilts a remainder of the first portion of the display page inwards as illustrated for example in .

However in this example if the electronic device receives a scrolling command to scroll the display page in a downward direction not illustrated the electronic device may scroll the display page to display the second portion of the display page and then may determine that the edge of the display page is reached. In such example embodiments in response to determining that the edge of the display page which is the now the bottom part of the second portion of the display page is reached the electronic device maintains the edge of the display page on the display and graphically tilts a remainder of the second portion of the display page inwards.

Reference is next made to which shows the example display page of tilted inwards. In the illustrated example of the edge of the display page is maintained and the remainder of the first portion of the display page is graphically tilted inwards. The second portion of the display page which is below the first portion of the display page is also shown to be graphically tilted inwards since the tilting of the display page makes it possible to see more of the display page on the display . For example the remainder of the first portion and the second portion of the display page are pivoted inwards around the fixed edge of the display page as illustrated by the inwards arrow . In this manner a user of the electronic device viewing the display page is given the indication that the edge of the display page is reached.

In at least some example embodiments while receiving the scrolling command for example a downward swiping gesture the electronic device may detect an increase in duration of the scrolling command for example further continuous downward swiping on the display page shown in and in response to detecting the increase in the duration of the scrolling command increasing the degree of tilting of the remainder of the first portion and the second portion of the display page inwards. The electronic device may further determine if the duration of the scrolling command is greater than a pre determined threshold for example if the length of time of the downward swiping is greater than a pre determined threshold and in response to determining that the duration of the scrolling command is greater than the pre determined threshold display a zoomed out display page that is a zoomed out display page is displayed instead of for example the graphically tilted remainder of the first portion and the second portion of the display page as illustrated in .

Reference is now made to which shows the example display page of in a zoomed out view. In the illustrated example of the example display page is a zoomed out display page . The zoomed out display page may be a magnification of the display page . In the illustrated example of the formerly fixed or hinged edge of the display page is snapped off to form the zoomed out display page . For example as the remainder of the first portion and the second portion are graphically tilted as shown in the snapping off of the formerly fixed or hinged edge of the display page in the upward and inward direction as shown by the upward and inward arrow transforms the display page to a zoomed out display page . The zoomed out display page includes the first portion and the second portion that are displayed on the display . Accordingly a user may view all of the content of the display page on the display .

While the present application is primarily described in terms of methods a person of ordinary skill in the art will understand that the present application is also directed to various apparatus such as an electronic device including a mobile communications device. The electronic device includes components for performing at least some of the aspects and features of the described methods which may be by way of hardware components such as the memory and or the processor software or any combination of the two or in any other manner. Moreover an article of manufacture for use with the apparatus such as a pre recorded storage device or other similar computer readable medium including program instructions recorded thereon may direct an apparatus to facilitate the practice of the described methods. It is understood that such apparatus and articles of manufacture also come within the scope of the present application.

The term computer readable medium as used herein means any medium which can store instructions for use by or execution by a computer or other computing device including but not limited to a portable computer diskette a hard disk drive HDD a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or flash memory an optical disc such as a Compact Disc CD Digital Versatile Disc DVD or Blu ray Disc and a solid state storage device e.g. NAND flash or synchronous dynamic RAM SDRAM .

Example embodiments of the present application are not limited to any particular operating system system architecture mobile device architecture server architecture or computer programming language.

The various embodiments presented above are merely examples and are in no way meant to limit the scope of this application. Variations of the innovations described herein will be apparent to persons of ordinary skill in the art such variations being within the intended scope of the present application. In particular features from one or more of the above described example embodiments may be selected to create alternative example embodiments including a sub combination of features which may not be explicitly described above. In addition features from one or more of the above described example embodiments may be selected and combined to create alternative example embodiments including a combination of features which may not be explicitly described above. Features suitable for such combinations and sub combinations would be readily apparent to persons skilled in the art upon review of the present application as a whole. The subject matter described herein and in the recited claims intends to cover and embrace all suitable changes in technology.

